{"name":"De Willenberg Or The Talisman","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1821__hales___de_willenberg_or_the_talisman.pdf","mytitle":"De Willenberg Or The Talisman","mylang":"de"}
DE WILLENBERG;
OR,
THE TALISMAN.
A TALE OF MYSTER Y.
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
-*- A
by I. M. H. HALES, Esq.
---
E.
Author of the AstrologER.
Such is the weakness of all mortal hope,
So fickle is the state of earthly things,
That ere they come into their aimed scope,
They fall so short of our frail reckonings,
And bring us bale and bitter sorrowings,
Instead of comfort, which we should embrace
This is the state of Caesars and of Kings.
Let mone, therefore, that is in meaner place,
Too greatly grieve at any his unlucky case. SPENSER.
WOL. I.
->>e-ºf
L O N ID ON :
rain-red Port
A. K. NEWMAN AND CO. LEADENHALL-STREET,
I821.
PIR EIFA (CE.
->>0-34
As an author standing before the
awful bar of public criticism, alter
nately fearing its condemnation, and
hoping for its mercy, I have already
made my appeal; and thanks perhaps
to the humility of my work—perhaps
to public lenity, that appeal hath not
been made in vain .
Now to which of these to attribute
the approbation evinced by the lovers
and readers of romance, and by per
sonages more sage and experienced
than those who usually come under
• VOL. I. B such
ii PR. E. FACE.
such denomination, towards the first
born of my pen in the world of fiction,
I am really at a loss to determine.
Be it as it may, my book has been
read, and (shall I say?) praised. Oh,
vanity, vanity, that is too much 1
Well then I will only say, that had
I been as learned an “Astrologer” as
Osmin the monk, I should have fore
seen his reception, and carried him
through sia good-sized volumes in
stead of three ; thus doubling the pro
fits to the bookseller and myself, like
many shrewd and sensible authors of
the present day.
To be serious, I must beg leave to
assure the world, that the popularity .
of
PR EFA CE, iii.
of my first work, and the suggestions
of my friends, are my chief induce
ments in publishing the present vo
lumes. May the same planet that the
“Astrologer” was born under, rule
their destiny
So much for an author's modesty.
Now for a few words as to the work
itself.
To more than the merits of a ro
mance it does not aspire,beingentirely
the offspring of imagination ; but let
it not hence be inferred that it will,
with unbecoming humility, take its
station below many other productions
of the press.
B 2 There
iv. PR EFA CE,
There is hardly any style of writing
that affords so ample a field for grand
imagery and effect, or enables an au
thor to display so powerfully the exu
berance of fancy, or the infinitude of
invention; it is a style, too, which I
profess to be my forte; and with this
assurance, the reader with whom it is
equally a favourite, may expect to de
rive equal gratification from the fol
lowing pages.
f :
. . . - -
DE
10 E WILLENBERG.
-------
CHAPTER I.
--------
Thou who didst subdue
Thy country's foes, ere thou wouldst pause to feel
The wrath of thy own wrong.
Childe Harold, Canto IV.
IN one of those memorable battles when
Poland bravely strove to maintain its liber
ties and independence against the nume
rous hostilities that environed that unfor
tunate country, the javelin of a Cossack
was furiously aimed at the bosom of the
royal Augustus, then sovereign and leader
of the Polish armies.
Swift as lightning, at that critical mo
B 3 ment,
6 DE WILLENBERG.
ment, a young cavalier rushed forward, and
with one stroke of his sabre severed the
arm from the body of the ruffian who had
thus sought the king's life, and who, not
withstanding the agony inflicted by the
wound, instantly galloped off, and effected
his escape amidst the bustle of the con
tending troops.
Extraordinary courage and presence of
mind were amongst the characteristics of
the monarch, but he could not help re
flecting on this attack upon his life with
horror, and on his escape with gratitude to
his deliverer, who still remained beside
him, and, in a voice of the most anxious
solicitude, entreated him no longer to ex
pose his royal person to such danger in the
heat of the contest.
Exclusive of the circumstance which
had thus introduced him to his notice,
there was in the figure and countenance
of the young soldier something so inte
resting,
IDE WILLENBERG. 7
resting, that the king felt immediately
prepossessed in his favour. At the same
time, a certain grandeur and dignity in his
mien declared his birth to be noble, and at
once assured the beholder that his mind
was equally ennobledwith every sentiment
that dignifies human nature.
“To whom, signor, am I indebted for
this service P” interrogated the king; “tell
me, that I may,if possible, proportionately
reward you.” - - -
“Sire,” said the hero, in a tone of un
affected modesty, “my reward is the con
sciousness of having done my duty, in pre
serving a life so dear to the people; for
my name, I am ambitious of no higher
than that of your majesty's deliverer.”
Saying this, he put spurs to his charger, and
was returning to his post, when the voice
of the king commanded him to stop.
“Stay, noble stranger,” said the latter;
“I cannot be so easily put off; you are an
ornament to your profession, and 32
B 4 At
-8 DE WILLENBERG.
At this instant a simultaneous shout of
“Victory! vietory !" ran through the
ranks, and arrested the king's attention.
Success had this day crowned the deter.
mined bravery of the Poles, and the de
lightful and inspiring sound thrilled
through the whole frame of the enrap
tured Augustus, who was thus hastily
summoned away.
“I am now pressed for time, my friend,”
continued he, “and can afford you but the
present moment, yet think not that I shall
forget your gallant conduct. Take this
ring,” said he, drawing a brilliant of value
from his finger; “be it a pledge of my
gratitude and friendship. When our con
quering troops have left the field, and
peace and tranquillity are once more re
stored amongst us, I shall expect to see
you at the palace; till then, farewell P
and shaking hands with him, he disap
peared, hurried on by the yet sounding
cry
IDE WILLENBERG. 9
cry of “Victory !” while his preserver,
proud of whathe had done, merely because
he had done, a laudable-action, hastened
also to his station, equally elated with the
loud exclamations of triumph that issued
from every tongue,
The battle was now decided; and hav
ing repelled the invaders to a man, the
king led off his rejoicing soldiers, and re
turned to his palace in Warsaw.
A few leagues from that city resided the
count Herman, one of the oldest nobles of
the court. His venerable mansion had
beheld the rise and decline of many gene
rations, and hither had its present owner
retired some years before, from the bustle
of state affairs, to enjoy that otium cum
dignitate which those who have long and
faithfully served their country, and con
scientiously discharged their duties to the
world, can alone truly experience.
I, 5 The
10 DE WILLENBERG.
The castle was of Gothic architecture,
and the ivy that crept round the towers
with which it was flanked, as if to shelter
them from the mouldering hand of time,
proclaimed its vast antiquity, whilst its
yet stately summit looked down with an
air of majesty on the vast expanse of foli
age, and seemed to lord it over the exten
sive forests that surrounded it.
In this sequestered abode of his ances
tors, whose antique magnificence called.
back to his enthusiastic mind the days
when they had existed, the count Herman
was now spending the happy evening of
his life. -
The principal companion of his retire
ment was a daughter, the pride of his heart,
and the only surviving child from a be
loved wife, who had expired in giving birth
to her; but with such a companion he sel
dom wished for any other, and still sel
domer visited the capital.
On
DE WILLENBERG. 11
On emerging from her infancy, her fa
ther, whose office of prime minister at the
court of Augustus's predecessor rendered
it impossible for him to superintend her
education, had placed her in a neighbour.
ing monastery, the superior of which was
his particular friend, and under whosema
ternal care and able tuition the amiable
Victoria made a rapid progress in every
branch of female education.
Nature had gifted her with those ac
complishments that art cannot always be
stow. To a refined taste and highly-cul
tivated talents, were united the purest, the
most valuable inmates of the human breast,
all the lovely and endearing qualities on
which virtue had placed its most indelible
stamp.
To her inferiors, equals, and superiors,
she was alike an object of admiration and
esteem; and the tears of genuine sorrow
and regret, that her departure at the allot
B 6 ted
12 DE WILLENBERG.
ted time from the conventdrew from every
eye, were amongst the most indubitable
testimonies of her worth. Her figure was
tall and strikingly elegant—her features
bore the same stamp of beauty that her
heart did of purity—her every look beam
ed with sweetness and affability; and
when, thus lamented, she quitted for ever
the sacred mansion where she had passed
so many happy hours, it looked like a ve
nerable tree dismantled of its richest
blossom. - N.
Such was Victoria, when, at the age of
sixteen, her rank introduced her to the
fashionable circles she was born to orna
ment.
There a crowd of admiring votaries fol
lowed her steps on all sides, with such in
cessant homage as would have subverted
the principles of a weaker mind—there her
charms subdued many a proud heart,
which never till then had acknowledged
- the
DE WILLENBERG. 13
the influence of such a passion as love; yet
amidst the praise and adulation that every
where met her ear, she remained unchang
ed—amidstall that could tempt the vanity
of woman. It afforded her no triumph
to behold in her train numerous victims
pining for that affection she could never
bestow on them—for that hand which a
monarch might in vain have sued for, if
she could not accompany it with her heart.
Wealth and exalted rank, with all their
fascinations, daily wooed her, and daily
were rejected.
Anger, disappointment, and admiration,
were the alternate feelings of her unsuc
cessful suitors; and all at length concurred
in declaring, that however fair, soft, and
bewitching, was the form that enshrined
it, nature, as if fearful of bringing mortal:
too near to perfection, had given her a
heart hewn from the solid interior of
some flinty rock or mountain of adamant.
This,
I4 DE WILLENBERG.
This, however, was far from being the
case; her heart was all female softness, and
possessed all the finer susceptibilities of
woman. Though unmoved by the pro
fessions of adoration that on all sides assail
ed her, she was by no means insensible to
the merits and attractions of the other sex.
Amongst those, the one whom fate had
reserved for her affections was the inte
resting and accomplished Theodore de
Willenberg, a distant relative of her fa
ther, and one of the select few now ad
mitted to their society at the castle, where,
however, his profession precluded him
from being a constant visitor.
He had been at this period about a year
in the service of his country, and nearly
attained the age of twenty-one. Nature
had done much for him; he possessed a
form and manners so fascinating, and par
ticularly calculated to please, that at the
first interview he ever made a favourable
arid
DE WILLENBERG, 15
and lasting impression; and his mind was
so highly furnished with the richest talents
and most refined acquirements, that his
society was universally courted, and his
amiable qualities the theme of every
tongue.
The battalion to which he belonged
was commanded by Leopold, duke of Si
lesia, brother to the king, with whom he
fought in conjunction against the Russian
invaders and their allies; and so much did
the distinguished qualifications and mark
ed attentions paid to De Willenberg give
umbrage to the haughty Leopold, that,
stung with envy, his heart at length che
rished against him sentiments of the most
implacable hatred.
Theodore's paternal residence was on the
delightful banks of the Vistula, and not
many miles from Warsaw. He was an only
son; no expence had been sparedin his edu
cation, and the partiality he in hisjuvenile
years
16 DE WILLENTBERG.
years evinced for a military life met such
encouragement from a fond uncle, then
captain in the regiment, that he en
listed under the banners of Mars, contra
ry to the wishes of his father.
M. de Willenberg, a man of very few
mental or personal recommendations, and
whose chief characteristics were avarice
andimplacability oftemper, had longlook
ed upon the daughter of an opulent mer
chant, of low origin, as the most eligible
match for his son, and hesitated not to
propose her to him. The coldness, how
ever, with which such a proposal was re
ceived, could only be equalled by the ar
dency with which the old man had hoped
for its acceptance. -
No two beings in the world could have
been more unlike each other than Theo
dore de Willenberg and the proud and
repulsive Maddeline de Klopstock, who,
to an exterior by no means captivating,
- added
IDE WILLENBERG). 17
added all the vulgarisms of low birth and
low education.
Such a woman was, of course, not at all
calculated to inspire any bosom with those
tender sentiments that M. de Willenberg
had expected her to awaken in his son,
who, seeing himself almost forced into
compliance, after in vain representing her
as an object of total indifference, if not dis
like to him, had recourse to the friend
ship of his uncle, through whose interest
he obtained an ensigncy, as the only means
of subsistence, wellknowing that his father
would no longer countenance him, after
having decidedly rejected the one whom
he had selected to unite him to.
From a breach offilial duty his upright
heart would, under any other circum
stances, have revolted, but, conscious that
to obey the unreasonable commands of a
mercenary parent would be to sacrifice his
peace and happiness for ever, he felt it to
* - ". be
18 Ibrº WII.I.ENBERG.
be a duty he owed himselfto refuse. Soon,
alas! he saw how imprudent was the step
he had last taken. The munificence of
his uncle for a while amply supplied his
every want, and made him regard him as
another father, from whom too he was
shortly taught to form great expectations
of future wealth and aggrandizement. But
how uncertain are all human affairs : A
fall from hishorse instantaneously deprived
his generous patron of life, and dying in
testate, the hopes of Theodore were thus
annihilated—all the property seized on by
persons who stood in the same degree of
consanguinity with himself, and he was
left wholly dependent on his profession for
support.
The poignant grief to which he for
a while yielded himself, was not the effect
of disappointment—it was one of the no
blest feelings of nature, called forth by the
loss of a friend he so valued and esteemed.
By
DE WILLENEERG. 19
By perseverance and profitable specu
lations in the earlier part of his life, M. de
Willenberg had realized an immense for
tune; consequently, ere Theodore had
thrown off the paternal yoke, he had na
turally looked forward to the possession of
it at some future day; but the prospect
was now no more. Incensed at his son's
refusal of the woman he had chosen, and
wished him to marry, and not less so at
his having acted in opposition to his
wishes, in embracing the profession of
arms, he had, after a long struggle with
his feelings (for, notwithstanding his diso
bedience, he yet could not help loving
him), resolved not only to forbid him to
approach him more, but to cut him off
with a trifling sum, barely sufficient to
supply his present exigencies, and leave
the bulk of his property to a distant rela
tive, in reversion after the death of his
wife. -
This resolution once formed, all the en
treaties
20 DE WILLENBERG.
treaties of madame de Willenberg in be
half of Theodore could not dissuade him
from it: he accordingly wrote him a letter
to that effect, every line of which was
couched in terms of anger and reproach.
Theodore, however, was not hastily dis
heartened; he sometimes fancied he had
acted rashly and culpably, in not employ
ing every exertion to obtain his father's
forgiveness, except that of receiving the
hand of Maddeline, to which any alterna
tive seemed preferable. But still he
trusted that time would soften, and per
haps remove, the rigorous decree. He
believed this letter to have been merely
dictated by hasty resentment, and even
that the sentiments it expressed were in a
great measure feigned.
With the idea that his father was less
incensed and less obdurate than he really
was, and that a few submissive entreaties
on his part would bring about a reconcili
ation, he addressed several letters to him,
but
r
DE WILLENBERG. 21
but without receiving any reply, except
once from his mother, and that clandes
tinely. This was an additional mortifica
tion to him: few were the sacrifices he
would not have made to be again restored
to his father's arms; but amongst those
few was that of marrying mademoiselle
Klopstock, and, what his mother had
hinted at, quitting the army. º
In Theodore all the finest qualities of
the human heart were united—every thing
was his that dignifies man: his soul was
that of an hero; and while it glowed with
valour, around it played all the softer
passions that dwell in the bosom of exeel
lence and virtue: for his present profession
nature seemed to have intended him, and
he had determined that nothing should
induce him to abandon it.
His family was a collateral branch of
the noble house of Herman, and the count
had frequently offered to introduce him
- at
22. DE will ENBERG.
at court, where his lordship was high in
favour with the king, and where, he
doubted not, he would very soon obtain
promotion. But Theodore, while ambi
tion was a stranger to his bosom, was too
proud to stoop to the example of many
other courtiers, in seeking advancement
rather by favour than by merit or desert;
and the count, while he accused him of
indifference to his own interest, internally
applauded his magnanimity.
It may hence be concluded that he
possessed no small share of esteem at the
castle, where he had ever been a welcome
inmate, and where, now that he was ap
parently cast off by his inexorable father,
he was almost peculiarly an object of its
worthy lord's attention.
His incessant military duties had for
some months past prevented him from
visiting there; but, now that war no
longer engaged him in actual service, he
intended
IDE WILLENBERG. 23
intended to fulfil a promise he had given,
to spend the summer with them. That
promise was to Victoria at once a source
of pleasure and of pain; for thefascinating
De Willenberg, the envy of his own sex,
and the idol of the other, was the one who
had first awakened in her bosom sensa
tions, the nature of which she scarcely
understood, and such as, until she beheld
him, she had never experienced. She
knew him to be generous, amiable, and in
every way worthy of her esteem, of which
her father's partiality for him was an in
dubitable proof; yet she dared not ask
herself why she entertained such a predi
lection for him in particular, or why he
should have made such an impression on
a heart that had been so completely proof
against all the efforts of so many others? .
Yet in her moments of meditation on the
subject, and those moments would some
times occur, she fancied, though hardly
knowing why, that her father, could he
view that impression, might not quite
• * approve
24 DE WILLENBERG.
approve of it; nay more, might wish it
to be erased altogether. -
In despite of these ideas, however, she
could not help secretly wishing for the ar
rival of the hour when she should again
see him, again hear his voice, and enjoy
his delightful conversation.
That hour was now not far distant; and
at length a letter addressed to the count
brought the long-expected intelligence of
his arrival, with his regiment, in the me
tropolis, whence, in a few days, he was to
set out for Herman Castle.
IDE WILLENBERG, 25
CHAPTER II.
***********
“Look like the innocent flower,
But be the serpent under it.”
SHAKESPEARE.
THE succession of Augustus to the crown
of Poland was an event equally gratifying
to himself and his people, by whom he
was universally beloved. As a prince, he
was of ancient and illustrious descent—as
a general, he possessed every requisite for
his high office, profoundly skilled as he
was in all the arts of war, in which he had
been initiated ere he had long passed his
infancy.
Independent of his other claims to the
throne, a laudable ambition to espouse
publicly the cause ofa suffering and per.
secuted nation, and uphold his tottering ,
vol. 1. C country,
26 DE WILLENBERG.
country, urged him on, and, determined
on exerting all his mental and corporeal
energies in their support, he became their
king, under auspices the most flattering,
and hopes the most sanguine; nor were
those hopes disappointed.
His character as a man was almost every
thing that man ought to be; but, like
other mortals, he had his faults and his
defects: in his resolves he was ardent and
persevering; but that ardency sometimes
carried him too far; he could not immedi
ately brook contradiction to his will; but
the calm voice of reason soon won him to
listen to its dictates, and then he never
failed to obey them.
He was in his twenty-sixth year—hand
some and unmarried, the daring incursions
of the surrounding powers havingkept him
hitherto in so continual a state of warfare, .
as to have scarcely left in his mind a va
cuum for any other object or idea but that.
..] ..., of
*} **
DE WILLENBERG. 27
of defeating their bold usurpations and
their treacheries. . The iron hand of war
and the din of battle had, however, not
subdued the softer and finer feelings of his
bosom—those feelings which it is the pride
of man to acknowledge—those noble feel
ings which so far constitute his superiority
over all the other works of nature. The
heart of Augustus sighed for a partner in
his domestic retirement, worthy to be the
confidant of his bosom, to be the object
of his affections, and to share with him
his wealth and royal dignities; and fondly
he hoped that he had now seen the woman
calculated in every way to render him
happy as a wife, and ensure the love and
attachment of her country as its queen.
Such a woman as this did Poland's
sovereign deem our amiable heroine; and
to her it was his determination to offer his
hand, for his heart was decidedly hers al
ready. He had first seen her by chance
when she was on a visit with an aunt in
C 2 the
28 DE WILLENBERG,
the metropolis; and being instantly struck
with the loveliness of her person, from
that moment he felt that nature had formed
his heart for the enjoyment of a tenderer
passion than any he had ever yet expe
rienced.
The recommencement of hostilities
quickly afterwards calling him to the field,
almost wore off for a while the impression
she had made; and, ignorant who she
was, he had also despaired of ever seeing
her again: but fate had otherwise ordained.
A few days subsequent to the late victory,
having occasion to confer with count Her
man on some important subject, he rode
to the castle, and there, to his inexpressi
ble surprise and joy, recognized the beau
tiful object who had so captivated him.
More captivated than ever was the de
lighted young monarch now in his intro
duction to Victoria, who, although she
beheld herself in the presence of her sove
reign, conversed with all her accustomed
- eaSe
IDE WILLENBERG. 29
ease and cheerfulness, nor for a moment
lost that unembarrassed air which at once
distinguishes the polite and well-bred in
addressing those whom fortune has placed
in a more elevated station of life than their
OWI).
Hours rolled away (and quickly they
appeared to roll) ere he thought of depart
ing; and when he did, his regret was
softened by the sanguine hopes he enter
tained that she would, when he proposed
it, consent to become his wife. At first
he apprehended some obstacles, from a
well-founded supposition that the nation
would not readily agree to his marrying
any woman in whose veins flowed not the
blood of royalty: but alittle consideration
set him at ease on that point.
The admirable policy of his government,
and the well-known excellence of his pri
vate character, independent of the good
he had done for his country, rendered him
C 3 the
30 DE WILLENBERG.
the idol of his subjects, who he knew
would, in almost any way, contribute to
his happiness, having repeatedly experi
enced convincing proofs of their attach
ment. Never had that attachment more
forcibly displayed itself than in their un
feigned joy at his safe return from the field
of battle, whose worst dangers he had
nobly braved and providentially escaped.
His grateful heart, which never forgot a
benefit, did not allow him to omit men
tioning, in the highest terms, the valour
and bravery of the unknown hero who had
preserved his life at the imminent hazard
of his own.
Words seemed inadequate to express
the gratitude and admiration his auditors
felt, as he recounted to them, with a
degree of warmth amounting to enthusi
asm, the expression of the noble young
stranger—the magnanimity evinced in his
reply to his majesty's interrogatory.
One
IDE WILLENBERG. 31
One general impulse actuated all.— .
“Matchless youth " cried they, unani
mously, “such an action—so invaluable a
service as he has thus rendered usin saving
the life of our beloved sovereign, never—
never can be obliterated from our minds;
but our gratitude must not be confined to
mere words: he shall be as nobly and •
magnificently rewarded as he deserves:
your majesty has surely promised him
this P”
“In my haste I gave him not such a
promise verbally,” returned the king;
“but I had within myself determined
what to do. I have given him my ring as
a proof of my friendship, and invited him
to the palace, whither I trust he will not
fail to come: I shall then be able to con
vince him more fully how high a place he
holds in my esteem.”
“And convince him, sire,” cried they,
“by an act that will reflect equal honour
upon both of you—by his promotion.”
C 4 This
32 IDE WILLENBERG.
This matter being decided, manifested
to Augustus most unequivocally the loy
alty and affection of his people: surely
then it was natural to conclude, that to
a measure so nearly commected with his
happiness as the choice of Victoria for his
consort, they would cheerfully give their
concurrence, the moment they should be
come acquainted with his passion for her.
With this hope he reached the palace, and
resolved to make the first communication
of it to his brother, the duke of Silesia,
whom he forthwith summoned to a private
conference.
Leopold had heard ere now of the ex
traordinary beauty of count Herman's
daughter, whom, notwithstanding his
known indifference to the charms of the
whole race of woman, he had long wished
to behold. He was therefore in some
measure prepared to hear the string of
encomiums lavished on her by the fasci
nated monarch. He patiently listened to
his
IDE WILLENBERG. 33
his ardent description of her beauties and
her accomplishments; but when he spoke
of marrying her, Leopold suddenly started,
and uttered an exclamation of astonish
ment and disapprobation—“Can your
majesty,” he interrogated, “really have
such a thing in contemplation—a thing so
unparalleled, as a great and absolute sove
reign to unite himself in marriage to a
subject? No, no! it is impossible—quite
impossible, that you can be otherwise than
in jest ".
“I am serious, duke,” replied the of.
fended monarch, haughtily; and a visible
expression of displeasure darkening his
brow, at once assured Leopold that he was
so; “herein I am capable of judging for
myself, and require neither your advice
nor your reproofs.”
To give umbrage now to his royal bro
ther, the duke was well aware would be
far from conducive to his own interest;
and, assuming a different tone, he endea
voured to retract what he had said—
C 5 “Pardon.
34 pe willENBERG.
* Pardon me, sire,” continued he, “my
words by no means meant reproof; though
I avow the idea of count Herman's daugh
ter being elevated to the rank of Poland's
queen, from her present rustic and seclud
ed state, did a little surprise me at first,
and I doubted the sincerity of your pro
fessions of love for her; but if such is your
majesty's pleasure, and that she can aug
ment the happiness of your reign, why
should I interfere—by what authority
should I presume to offer an objec
tion ?”
“Hear me then, and doubt no longer,”
said the king, with frigid dignity: “no
female charms ever inspired my bosom
with a ray of love until I saw Victoria.
As soon as my eyes rested on her, she
became the chosen of my heart; and
should her lips sanction that choice, she
shall be queen of Poland.”
This was said in so firm and determined
a tone, that Leopold, who had his secret
motives
DE WILLENBERG. 35
motives for it, deemed it expedient to calf
dissimulation to his aid; and he expressed
a hope that she would prove in every re
spect congenial to his majesty'ssentiments,
and worthy to fill a station so exalted.
The countenance of Augustus glowed
with animation as he fervently exclaimed
—“I have already found her every thing
that renders woman amiable: she is worthy
to be queen of half the universe, and the
retirement in which she lives only conceals
her loveliness from the world, as the earth
within its dark recesses conceals the costly
gem, ere the mechanic has dug it thence,
and fitted it to deck the monarch's head
who wears it.”
“Has she yet given any encouragement
to your hopes?” demanded the duke.
“None; for as yet she knows them not;
but what have I to fear? think you she
would refuse to wed her king, and inter
mingle the blood of royalty in her chil
C 6 dren's
36 DE WILLENBERG.
dren's veins—or if she would, do you think
she dare refuse me?” - -
“That is a harsh word, my brother,”
observed Leopold, emphatically, “ and
best befits a tyrant; but I will speak my
mind—I do think so.”
“Your speech grows bolder, duke, and,
may perhaps anger me.”
“Then, sire, I will for a moment brave
your anger, in endeavouring to undeceive
you,” added Leopold, with firmness. “By
what prerogative would your majesty
compel the lady Victoria to accept your
hand 2 it was not to trample on the peo
ple's rights and liberties, that you were
raised to the throne of your illustrious an
cestors: nay, listen to me—you are here a
king, surrounded by your subjects, whose
loyal hearts regard you as a father; while
virtue guides and justice shapes your ac
tions, they hold your person sacred; but
beware—dismiss for a moment from your
sight those guardians of your safety, your
throne, deprived of their support, would
totter,
DE wif,LENBERG. 37
totter, yourself would headlong fall from
the pinnacle of your present greatness, and
the very men, now so faithful to you,
would join and stretch the sinews of their
arms to hurl you thence more quickly.”
“I feel the full force and justness of
your reasoning, Leopold,” said the king,
taking his brother's hand affectionately,
“nor shall it be lost upon me; you have
addressed me as a friend and a brother
ought to do; your candour has displayed
the soundness of your understanding, and
the excellence of your heart, for which
you are dearer to me than ever: yes, a
monarch should be the father of his peo
ple, and he who does not respect their
rights forfeits the appellation of father or
of man; in this you have proved my best
counsellor, and I will obey you. I will
woo the heart and the hand of Victoria,
and having gained them, place her on that
throne she is so eminently qualified to
adorn.” -
A smile
38 IDE WILLENBERG.
A smile of satisfaction shot across the
features of Leopold; it was evident that
the king was not aware of his having a
powerful rival in Theodore de Willen
berg, one likely to dispute the prize with
him, and one also likely to obtain it; and
he who did know it thought it not quite
politic to inform him.
“You will be able,” resumed his ma
jesty good-humouredly, “to judge your
self of my opinion of female perfection at
to-morrow night's hall, where the lady in
question, accompanied by her father, will
be, and where I am chagrined that eti
quette will prevent me from being pre
sent.”
“I too regret that such restraint should
be imposed on you,” said the duke, in a
well-feigned voice, to corroborate his
words; “but the pleasure you are thus
obliged to forego, will surely be doubled
when you meet her, with the delightful
prospect
DE will ENBERG. 39
prospect of obtaining such a woman as
you describe her for your wife.”
“Would to Heaven that hope were
now confirmed, Leopold—changed to more
delightful certainty would that my sus
pense were at an end, for amidst all my
hopes, still do I sometimes doubt.”
“Oh would indeed that it were, sire?
'tis my most fervent wish.”
“”Tis then in your power, my brother,
to contribute to the accomplishment of
that wish. I am about to put your
friendship for me to the test; I will con
, sult one of my ministers on this subject,
and should he approve and sanction the
measure, I will, with your highness' per
mission, depute you to be the bearer of
my wishes to count Herman, to demand
the lady Victoria in marriage; aye, tell
him Augustus, king of Poland, loves his
daughter, and if ambition is not dead
within them, she shall be queen.”
“But what if he decline such an ho
mour?” said the duke, with peculiar energy.
46 Do
40 EXE WILLENBERG.
“Do not suggest such a possibility,
Leopold—rememberhow much of my hap
piness depends on his compliance. But we
will, in a few days, talk further of this
affair, for some time must elapse after my
visit this morning, ere I make a proposal
so unexpected by them, and, perhaps I
might add, so unprecedented; meantime
prepare your own heart to withstand her
fascinations at the approaching ball.”
This ball was to be given, in commemo
ration of the victory, by a large party of
officers, headed by the duke of Silesia;
and the latter now anxiously counted all
the tedious hours, thinking every succeed
ing one longer and longer, until the ap
pointed evening arrived, so eager was he
to feast his eyes with this paragon of love
liness. s
Victoria was not less impatient than the
duke, but that impatience was excited by
a very different object; she knew she
would
DE WILLENBERG, 41
would there meet De Willenberg, after a
long—long absence; and on the ensuing
day, or at farthest the one after, he was to
become her father's guest; oh, joyful an
ticipation' an inmate under the same roof
with herself!
At length came the evening so ardent
ly wished for by all parties—by many,
too, of the votaries of pleasure and dissi
pation, to whom the ball seemed of infi
nitely more importance than the victory
it was intended to celebrate.
De Willenberg felt alternately elated
-and depressed, as he prepared to accom.
pany his brother officers to the magnifi
cent hotel where it was to take place, for
there he was to meet Victoria; this idea
at one moment filled him with rapture,
and in the next sunk him into a state of
despondency; for his bosom, which was
the seat of the purest honour, sometimes
º; entertained
42 IDE WILLENEERG,
entertained sentiments not altogether un
like Victoria's.
. ." . - *, *
Some of his companions, who knew the
ascendancy she had gained over him, ral
lied him on the felicity of seeing her so
soon, and his intended visit to the castle,
where they predicted an event of no less
importance than their immediate union.
Their good-humoured sallies served at
least as a check upon his gravity; he saw
the necessity of being perfectly himself,
and in smiling cheerfulness he entered the
ball-room; there he was very soon an ob
ject of general attention, and to the female
part of the company, of general admira
tion, for he had never looked so captivat
ing as now. The continual buz amongst
those, his admirers, would not have let
him remain ignorant of the notice he had
attracted, had he even been blind to the
frequent and involuntary glances directed
towards him from some of the most beau
tiful eyes in the room.
Though
>
DE WILLENBERG. 43
Though the rooms were by this time
almost crowded, dancing had not yet com
menced, and he proceeded to pay his re
spects to the duke of Silesia, who was
standing chatting with another young offi
cer, and apparently unmindful of the my
riads of beautiful women promenading up
and down before him.
Envy and vanity were Leopold's most
striking characteristics; he possessed the
advantage of a fine person, and that added
to the splendour of his rank, he expected
to see every class, every age and sex,
kneel before him, imagining that those
two recommendations were sufficient to
command universal homage: over the few
good qualities nature had implanted in
him, a degree of ill-natured satire, which
he never lost an opportunity of display
ing, threw a shade that nearly obscured
them. He regarded the other sex as bau
bles, made for the service or amusement
of his own; and, wrapt in his personal
- charms,
44 IDE WILLENBERG.
charms, he regarded even the superior
ones of woman with apathy, nay, often
with contempt; and amongst his own sex,
he was either unconscious of, or would not
acknowledge a rival.
On De Willenberg's first entering the
regiment, he experienced many signal
proofs of the duke's favour; but soon that
favour was transferred; the attentions that
Theodore everywhere met, he viewed
with an eye of jealousy and surprise, un
willing to see wherein he merited them;
he had hoped his rank would secure him
precedence wherever he went, and to do
this the more effectually, he always took
care to hint at De Willenberg's dependent
state. He was foiled however in so un
worthy an aim ; and though his rank did
admit him to the first circles, still was he
almost everywhere an object of fear, from
his satirical talents, and dislike, from the
domineering air of tyranny his words and
his actions always wore; few were unac.
s quainted
DE: WILLENBERG. 45
quainted with those talents, for few indeed
did he spare; but he now seemed to have
selected Theodore, in particular, as a butt,
on whom to exercise all the severity of
which it was capable.
“ Here comes that smooth-tongued
flatterer, De Willenberg,” said the duke,
with a sarcastic smile, seizing the arm of
an officer who stood near him; “letuscome
and meet him, Werner: how he cringes
and bows to all, while his words, flow as
sweet as honey from the virgin comb!
mark what a fool those women make of
him see how he revels in their wanton
smiles, and thinks them the very soul of
love {"
Captain Haller, a young officer, whose
amiable qualities were as conspicuous as
the elegance of his person, was the one
with whom the duke had been conversing,
and he could not repress a smile of con
tempt as his highness walked away; so.
... . . ; unfavourable
46 DE WILLENBERG.
unfavourable was the comparison to him,
that he, for a moment, drew between the
haughty, high-born Leopold, and the
handsome and unassuming De Willen
berg. - - -
“And is it such a one,” thought he,
“that would analyse the mind or the ac
tions of another? Hypocrite he would
see Theodore in the very bosom of per
dition. Is this the one who would point
out the failings of another—one who
knows not himself? what a pity that Na
ture should in vain have exerted her
powers, to conceal a depraved heart by a
fair exterior He is as an ornament of co
loured glass, made in resemblance of some
rich and precious gem; its brilliant tint
may at first deceive the eye, but look
closer, and how soon do we espy the foil,
some worthless stuff beneath. "
Such was Haller's mental soliloquy,
when suddenly the subject of it again ac.
- costed
IDE WILLENBERG. 47
costed him, as he approached by the side.
of Theodore.
“Now, Haller,” said he, “confess that
your mirror has played a treacherous part
with you to-night; for myself, I shall
never believe in one again. Look here,
thou little twinkling star, and hide your
diminished head; with all our vanity we
must own ourselves at length surpassed;
turn your eyes on De Willenberg, and
then say what female, composed of flesh
and blood, could withstand such a blaze of
charms? not Diana herself, with all her
prudish modesty; they would make the
very devil reverence him.”
“That they would,” returned Haller,
significantly, “and his three satellites,
Envy, Hatred, and Malice.” -
“I advise you, Haller, to be a satellite
in some one else's train, less likely to eclipse
you,” said the disconcerted duke, petu
lantly; then, wishing to conceal his cha
grinat the unexpectedretort,heresumed—
- 66
of-siſ:... De
48. DE WILLENBERG.
“De Willenberg, the band should have
announced you with—“See the conquer.
ing hero comes! You look like the full
orbed moon, and we, poor fluttering crea
tures, round you, like so many little stars,
impudently starting up, only to be dazzled,
by your brightness.” “º " " ' " -
“Or like a brilliant jewel beside an
humble pebble, deriving a greater lustre
from the contrast,” observed De Willen
berg good-humouredly, and determined to
rebuff him.
At the same moment, the names of the
count and lady Victoria Herman were re
echoed through the room, and presently
afterwards appeared, leaning on her fa
ther's arm, our lovely heroine. As if by ge
neral impulse, all the company instantly'
fixed their eyes on her, for she looked
almost perfection; envy itself could not :
withhold the admiration she merited; and
even the duke of Silesia, the vain, arro-º:
gant, self-opinionated duke, who had
of - hitherto
DE WILLENBERG. 49
hitherto regarded woman as a being so
vastly inferior to man, was struck with her
incomparable beauty, and exclaimed to
captain Haller, as he put his arm inside
his, and forgetful of the captain's jeu
d'esprit, hurried him towards the count's
party—“If mortals can assume the form
of angels, there goes one on whom Heaven
has bestowed that privilege.”
“Your highness is caught at last,” ob
served Haller, smiling at Leopold's en
thusiasm; “that heart which so long boast
ed indifference to the whole sex, is at
length vanquished, lost, irretrievably lost.”
“By Jupiter it is " answered the duke,
“and lost to such advantage, that for
worlds I would not redeem it: think you
that my heart is composed of the same
materials as my sword, or that I am an
actual stoic or woman-hater? no, no, this
enchantress has completely fascinated me—
a conquest by no means inconsiderable;
and if she is not Silesia's duchess before
WOL. I. D the
50 IDE WII,LENBERG,
the expiration of three months, say I am
hot a man, a soldier, nor a lover.”
“This indeed, duke, is most wonder
ful!”.ejaculated Haller.
- “Most strange, most wonderful, but
yet most true, captain' I am seriously in
love with her, and would almost give my
dukedom for half-an-hour's conversation
with her. But do my eyes deceive me?
By Heaven, here she comes, with her fa
ther, and that every-body's man, De Wil
lenberg, stalking beside them.”
The ceremony of introduction past,
Leopold fancied he had gained a complete
triumph over De Willenberg, for Victoria
chatted to him with all the easy familia
rity that marks the woman of fashion; all
his vivacity and wit, every fancied attrac
tion: he possessed, were called forth on this
great occasion, for it was his intention that
she should be as effectually captivated as
he was himself.
The
twº
(0
eſ) º*\O
eſ º &
- s" eexº
º
oW ge”wº \\s
oº: *
\
º
WN*º
52 DE willENBERG.
throng to where they were about to com
mence quadrilles.
Notwithstanding all his efforts to be
gay and entertaining, the duke could not
hide his chagrin; in a thousand various
ways he betrayed it; and it was with the
greatest difficulty he could so far command
himself, as to shew his fair partner the at
tentions that politeness demanded. He
did not reflect that Victoria, having been
already engaged to Theodore, could not,
without an actual breach of decorum,
dance immediately with him; that consi
deration was wholly forgotten in the im
portance attached to himself; and thus his
pride received a wound not prone to heal
very quickly.
Captain Haller saw the advantage De
Willenberg had gained, for that Victoria
really preferred the latter was obvious to
his keen and penetrative eye; and being
One
DE WILLENBERG. 53
one of the many who could not esteem
the duke, he determined to vex him still
more, and to do it in such a manner that
his intention could not be suspected.
“Count Herman's attention has made
De Willenberg even more than usually
conspicuous to-night,” observed he, as he
joined the duke at the end of the first
dance. -
“Pshaw! conspicuous !” sneered Leo
pold, “who would not stare at a daw in
borrowed plumes? Yes, he is conspicuous
enough; but give the devil his due, he has
the merit of making himself so without
the aid of his betters.”
“And yet, if all the peacocks round the
poor daw were stripped of their plumes,
your highness must own they would make
rather a sorry sight,” retorted the captain:
“but, seriously, that old Frenchwoman,
the duchess de St. Clair, is over head and
ears in love with him; she absolutely
D 3 wanted
54 DE will,ENBERG.
wanted him to decline dancing, and to be
her partner at the piquet-table.” -
“The piquet-table!” echoed the duke;
“would she pay his reckoning if he
lost? no, no; egad, he did wisely to run
the risk of losing his heart before his
money—that's rathera scarce commodity
with him.” " -
“And woe be to the heart of whoever
he dances with!” said Haller; “for he will
never be the fool to marry a girl who
may, like himself, have less money than
wit.” e º - -
“At that rate then he will either marry
some thoughtless coquette with less wit
than money, or never marry at all; what
girl of sense would fling away her person
and fortune on a coxcomb and a beggar?
for he is scarcely removed from complete
penury—a poor ensign, with nothing but
the coat on his back, a tall figure, and a
few canting compliments to recommend
him.”
66 On
IDE WILLENBERG. 55
“On this point I must undeceive your
highness,” replied Haller, with warmth,
and pleased to have so stung the invidious
Leopold; “De Willenberg is not a beggar,
mor, I hope, ever will be; there is little
doubt that through count Herman's inter
cession, his father will be shortly reconciled
to him; then will he be far removed from
penury, nay, he will be well worthy even
of the lovely lady Victoria for a wife.”
“ Through the count's intercession!”
repeated the duke, with a stare, and in a
tone of incredulity; “what mean you?
you are surely not silly enough to believe
that a man of Herman's rank would trou
ble his head about the quarrels of his in
feriors? but if you choose to believe it,
there is no reason why I must 22
“Be that as it may, every body knows
that Theodore is on pretty good ground
at the castle; it seems rather improbable
that a handsome young man should be
asked on a visit to an old Croesus, with a
D 4 beautiful
56 DE WILLENBERG.
beautiful young daugher, if little Cupid
had not gone beforehand to solicit the
honour for him.” * -
“Monstrous absurdity?” cried the duke,
instantly comprehending him, and distort
ing his features into a malicious grin; “ is
this your penetration, most sagacious and
sensible captain Haller? Admirable poli
cy! and so, forsooth, you are going to
marry the discarded De Willenberg to
the illustrious daughter of count Herman?
excellently planned, but, alas, not so
easily accomplished her father is a man
of sense, and by all accounts lady Victoria
has not yet taken leave of her reason.”
“There is no knowing what a girl in
love may do,” playfully answered the cap
tain, unwilling to take him seriously; “if
she does not take leave of her reason, it
may perhaps take leave of her; and I fancy
De Willenberg is the one it would make.
its exit with, that is, if he were to take his
leave of her.”
* * “with
w
DE WILLENBERG. 57
“With us, Haller, it seems to be making
a formal congé already; so, in the name of
common sense, let us recall it.”
“Well, I will now give your highness a
very rational, a very plain, very concise,
and very true piece of intelligence; if
Theodore obtains his father's pardon, his
fortune will even exceed hers, and the
whole neighbourhood whispers that she
will then, bond fide, become his better half
—his wife.”
“Come, come, you are too satirical on
him,” said the duke, affecting to think
this staunch friend of Theodore's in jest;
“this is unmercifully severe; but levity
apart, I myself have serious intentions of
making her my duchess—she is worthy of
a royal coronet.”
“Which I am inclined to think she
will not accept even from your highness.”
The quivering of his lip, the alternate
flush and pallid hue of his countenance,
for a moment betrayed Leopold's indig
- D 5 nation;
58 DE WILLENBERG.
2 nation; but his pride mastered it in time
to elude the observation of Werner, who
now came up, and tapping the captain on
the shoulder—“Eh, Haller,” said he, “is
this the gallantry for which you are so re
nowned? standing here and looking as
grave as a doctor, or a lawyer pocketing
his fee, instead of leading some lovely
nymph, on “light fantastic toe, through
the “mazy dance. As for your highness,
I only wonder to see you here at all—you
generally prefer the balls in the billiard
room.” - - . . .
“The balls of a lady's eyes have made
a bitter hit to-night, Werner; they have
done more damage in this little field of
infantry, than the fiercest balls that ever
whizzed from a cannon.”
“ Bravissimo” cried Werner; “ this
Circe has caught your highness also in her
chains; we may expect another golden
age if you are fallen in love: yonder
stands the happy fair, and, no disparage
ment, or rather discouragement, to your
- highness,
DE WILLENBERG. 59
highness, she has got a devilish handsome
partner in De Willenberg; by-the-bye, the
selfish fellow seems to have monopolized
her altogether. But they are beginning to
dance again; there are two or three spinsters
expecting you at the top of the room, and
if you do not ask them to be your partners,
they will positively come and ask you.”
“It will not be ask and have with them
then; let them dance together and be
damned,” cried Leopold, out of all pa.
tience at this apparent combination of wit
and raillery against him.
He moved off haughtily and peevishly,
and flung himself on the first vacant seat,
while the gay Werner and his friend, all
liveliness and good-humour, smiled at hav
ing mortified the vanity of this petulant
great man, and, with hearts devoid of care,
joined their airy partners. -
In silent sullen dignity the duke sat a
considerable time, without condescending
D 6 to:
60 DF: WILLENBERG.
to speak to any body, his eyes fixed in
tently on De Willenberg, with an expres
sion of rancorous envy, until, the set being
concluded, he saw him present his arm to
Victoria, and lead her to a seat, where the
count, who had been absent for some
time, soon joined them.
“Now, Victoria,” said his lordship, “I
will take care of you; and meantime do
you, Theodore, take my advice and pay
your respects to the dowager de St.
Clair directly; she is almost out of pa
tience at your not coming to chat with
her before.”
“Indeed, my lord, I scarcely saw her
grace; and if lady Victoria had arrived a
little sooner, I verily believe I should not
have seen any body else.”
Victoria blushed; and the count smiling,
directed him to the card-room—“You
will there find the avaricious old dame,”
continued he; “ she fastened me to the
table so unmercifully long, winning and .
* > - - laughing
DE will ENBERG. 61
laughing all the while, that had not the
duchesse de Beaufleur very good-natured
ly got into a passion at losing, and, sans
cérémonie, flung down her cards hastily,
I think she would have kept me there all
night.” -
“Flung down her cards!” exclaimed.
Victoria, shocked at such a circumstance;
“can it be possible that her grace com
mitted so gross an outrage on politeness
and decorum ?”
“My dear girl,” said the count, “deco
rum was one of the rigid laws of the old
school—the dullest of all dull things; but
such stale tenets are now obsolete amongst
our modern fashionables, who more judi
ciously conceive good breeding to consist
in elegant assurance and refined rtide
ness.”
“Then indeed,” said Victoria, “I do
not wish to be classed with the well
bred ladies of the present day. Alas!”
thought she, “if this be the world I am
entering, would I had remained secluded
- - - - 1In
62 DE WILLENBERG,
in the sacred and revered abode of my in
fancy! far preferable had its solitude been
to the vicious gaieties of fashionable life,
more congenial to me the society of its
amiable sisterhood, than of those new mo
dellers of manners and morals, those re
finers of sense and decency I am here
doomed to meet; surely, if these two are
thus grossly perverted, if fashion thus
sanctions indecency and folly, it will also
sanction falsehood and deceit.”
An involuntary sigh escaped her as she
made these reflections; she half started, for
she perceived it had instantly been caught
by the attentive ear of De Willenberg,
who, fearful, he scarce knew why, of the
eount's observation, hastily took his leave
for a while, and proceeded to pay his de
voirs to the matrons in the card-room.
Ere he was out of sight, the duke, who
had watched anxiously the moment of
being seen by him, resumed an air of
cheerfulness,
DE www.esse”
deaſulº. sprang”.
d d with {\me
Victor” 3.
and fº imating elegance ‘’
wested Wer
could p" on, T
honour of dancing the cow
Wim.
64 DE WILLENBERG.
Our heroine was by no means prepos
sessed in the duke's favour, but she could
not, consistent with her ideas of politeness,
refuse to dance with him, and, with her
father's approbation, she gave him her
hand.
As he had expected, bursts of applause
and admiration, from all sides, followed
their performnace of the minuet; but not
withstanding this gratification to his vani
ty, still he was not satisfied; for De Wil
lenberg had not witnessed it, nor seen him
lead Victoria down the room triumphant
ly as his partner. Oh! had he but been
present, had he seen the bewitching grace
fulness of her every step, as she moved
through the minuet, while he fancied she
looked a thousand times more lovely than
in the preceding dances! surely, he thought,
it would have been a victory over his pre
sumptuous rival, who would then have
felt and acknowledged his own inferiority,
and shrunk from the illustrious Victoria,
* aS
IDE WILLENBERG. 65
as detected vice recoils from the glance of
virtue. In vain, however, he soughtan op
portunity of displaying his supposed tri
umph, and numerous acts of gallantry: to
Victoria his attention was fulsome and dis
pleasing; and as soon as etiquette permit
ted, she rejoined her father, hoping his
highness would leave her, and seek a part
ner more calculated for him, and to whom,
his compliments and assiduities might be
less irksome; but as he thought quite dif
ferently of himself, and was not at all of
opinion that he could find a more delight
ful companion, or that she could wish for
one more so, he remained beside her while
they promenaded up and down the room.
At length Theodore again made his ap
pearance; Victoria felt pleased at his return,
and tried to persuade herself that she was
so merely because he might, in some mea
sure, divert the duke's attention from her;
at the same moment they were proceed
* * * ing
66 DE WILLENBERG.
ing to sit down, and Leopold stopped to
speak to Werner, who had accosted him.
Theodore now approached, and Victoria
hoped he would take the vacant seat be
side her father, and thus exclude the duke;
but she was disappointed; the latter see
ing him coming towards them, and with
out appearing to observe him, unceremo
niously quitted Werner, and darted into:
the seat ere De Willenberg had reached
them.
Now, Victoria, what were the sensa
tions that filled thy gentle bosom? or why,
in reality, didst thou wish that De Wil
lenberg, instead of the royal Leopold, had
occupied a place so near thee? Ask thy
young and susceptible heart, and it will
tell thee what thou art not yet aware of;
surely thou hast found thy kindred soul.
in the amiable De Willenberg. Like thine
own indeed is his—pure and exaltedl
SOOIA
IDE WILLENEERG. 67
soon will thy feelings ripen intolove—nay,
start not at the sound—thou mayest argue
and reason with thyself, and say—“I may
esteem. Theodore, for he is every thing
that deserves esteem; but wherefore should
I love him?” yet in defiance of all thy rea
soning, still wilt thou love him, for he is
also every thing that deserves thy love.
De Willenberg could not help feeling
hurt at the duke's pointed rudeness, nor
was Victoria less so, though more able to
conceal it; his eyes met hers for a moment,
and then turning a look of contempt on
Leopold, after a few commonplace obser.
vations addressed to the count, he passed
on. No offence from an individual ever
made him forgetful of the politeness due
to others; and however piqued at the con
duct of the duke, and disappointed at be
ing thus separated from Victoria, he chat
ted and laughed with all his acquaintances,
with the same engaging affability and
liveliness that always characterized him.
Report
68 DE WII.LENBERG.
Report had, ere now, given to Victoria
an outline of the duke's general character,
but his disposition had this night so com
pletely developed itself, that, divesting
him of the pomp and dignities of rank,
and viewing him merely as a man, she re
membered nobody whom she thought it
would be so difficult to esteem or respect.
How little then did the unconscious Leo
pold think, what an impossibility it would
be to inspire her with a sentiment bearing
the remotest affinity to love!
She was extremely disconcerted by the
repulse he had given De Willenberg, and
that tended still more to prejudice her
against him; but for Theodore's sake she
studiously avoided every thing that might
excite further envy or enmity towards
him in the bosom of Leopold, who, with
almost all the assiduity of a professed
lover, continued to follow her for the re
mainder of the evening.
To
DE WILLENBERG. 69
To her infinite satisfaction she at length
heard her father's carriage announced, and,
with grave and formal politeness, wishing
his highness good-night, she was assisted
to enter it by De Willenberg, to whom
the count, cordially shaking hands with
him, gave a pressing invitation to dine at
the castle next day, and on the one suc
ceeding to that, he was to consider it his
home for some months.
CHAP
70 DE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER III.
-->4-4-->4-4-º-º-º-º-º-º
A matchless pair,
With equal virtue formed, and equal grace.
Thomson.
WITH all the solicitude of a fond parent,
the count's eyes had pursued Victoria's
every step during the evening, while she
remained within their reach. To the pro
tection of few besides De Willenberg
would he have entrusted her; yet one of
those few, was the duke of Silesia, under
whose care he felt no reluctancein leaving
her several times, when politeness required
his society and attendance elsewhere. He
was, however, one of those who only su
perficially knew the duke, whose fulsome
compliments and displeasing attentions to
our heroine were so managed as to pass
unobserved
I).E WILLENBERG. 71
unobserved by him; and Victoria, while
she felt pained and embarrassed by them,
instead of ungenerously enjoying the ad
vantage they gave her over every other fe
male present, was too polite to shew re
sentment, and too tenacious of her beloved
father's tranquillity to mention them.
Leopold had received his early educa
tion in a remote part of Germany, under
a father of the Catholic church, who was
not only a slave to every bigotry and pre
judice that had existed for some pre
ceding centuries, but also a man of the
most depraved and diabolical principles.
He was competent to the task of instruct
ing his royal pupil merely so far as regard
ed the exterior accomplishments he was
expected to possess: in outward appear
ance he was all he wished—fascinating and
imposing; but within all was deep, dark,
and designing; and according to his own,
did this holy man model the mind and the
heart of the unfortunate Leopold, who too
well
|
72 IDE WILLENBERG,
well imbibed his precepts, and followed his
doctrines.
To mask the genuine feelings of the
heart, was one of the first lessons fatally
taught him; to study the external graces
of a courtier and a man of fashion—to ap
pear amiable, without possessing in reality
an amiable quality, the next; and thus
progressively the duke became the insinu
ating, artful, polished hypocrite he has
been drawn.
On their way home, the count, amongst
other topics, requested his daughter's opi
nion of his highness, and, with her accus
tomed sweetness and amiability, she com
mented on his good qualities; for a few
good ones he did possess, without suffer
ing herself for a moment to suggest his
bad and generally more striking ones. Her
usual vivacity enlivened her not now;
she was silent and thoughtful; and her fa
ther, whose discernment soon satisfied him
aS
IDE WILLENBERG. 73
as to the cause, allowed her to indulge in
her pensiveness during much of the latter
part of their journey.
In the solitude of her apartment she
strove to account for the uneasy change
which a few short hours had produced in
her. For the first time in her life, her
peace of mind was disturbed; and now
too, for the first time, she dared to ac
knowledge to herself that De Willenberg
was the author, the unconscious author, of
her disquietude. Thus secure from ob
servation, she ventured to examine the
state of her heart, and to give way to re
flections she had hitherto dreaded to en
courage. With however partial an eye
she had till now viewed Theodore, she
thought she had never before this night
seen him to such advantage. It appeared
as if he had kept a host of his attractions
in reserve, to besiege at once that heart he
had been so long slowly undermining, and
she was obliged to confess the victory he
WOL. I. E had
74 DE WILLENBERG.
had gained, for too well she understood
the nature of her feelings not to acknow
ledge that she loved him.
This conviction was not chilled by any
apprehension that her love was unrequited,
for though De Willenberg had been sel
dom in her society, and then had never
suffered his lips to utter a word that could
be directly construed into an expression of
affection for her, yet his general deport
ment so plainly evinced that she was an
object of peculiar interest to him, his kind
est attentions being almost undividedly to
her, and his manner altogether so com
pletely spoke the language of the heart,
and so unequivocally betrayed his attach
ment to her, that with the discernment
she possessed, it was impossible for her to
be mistaken as to the nature of his senti
ments.
Yet while she felt pleased at being be
loved by the amiable being on whom she
- had
DE WILLENBERG. 75
had placed her own pure affections, that
pleasure was not without alloy. She
knew the peculiarity of De Willenberg's
situation, the circumscribed state of his
finances, and how painfully he was cir
cumstanced with regard to his father; she
knew that the count loved him with ten
derness almost paternal, had argued against
the cruelty of that father, and even writ
ten a most eloquent and feeling letter, in
the hope of reinstating Theodore in his
favour—an act which the latter was yet
ignorant of. But all this she deemed as
merely proceeding from an impulse of ge
nerosity and benevolence in the count,
who, she firmly believed, would never
sanction any encroachment upon that ge
merosity, by allowing even this, hisfavour
ite, to address her as a lover. He had, it
is true, permitted her to reject many offers
which were in several respects eligible and
advantageous, as well as many of no advan
tage at all; but she was not hence to con
clude that his philanthropy, or his partia
E 2 lity,
76 DE WILLENBERG.
lity, would lead him to bestow herself, the
heiress of his illustrious house, on the un
titled Theodore, while he could, through
an act at least of obedience, ifnot of choice,
on her part, ally himself to some of the
most distinguished families under the
CrOWI). -
The mind of De Willenberg was not
less painfully agitated. From the hour he
had first seen Victoria, he had viewed no
other woman with sensations so delightful
to him, and her loveliness increasing with
her years, he soon became convinced that
he could be happy with no other as a wife.
His bosom young and glowing with en
thusiasm, he gave way for a while to all the
raptures this idea inspired, anticipating
every joy known to mortals; but reason
soon stepped forward as a check to his ar
dour, and he was obliged, however reluc
tantly, to listen to it. He contemplated
himself as a being almost unfriended and
alone in the world, unfeelingly discarded
by
DE WILLENBERG. 77
by theonly one on whom nature had given
him a claim for protection and support—
by his father, and without seeing any pro
bability of his being reconciled to him.
M. de Willenberg had now ceased to
notice his pecuniary or any other wants,
and even to write to him upon any subject,
so that he was left entirely depending on
his pay for subsistence. He no longer
cherished a hope of assistance from his fa
ther; and thus destitute of the luxuries, and
many of the necessaries of life, and conse
quently of ability to support a wife, his
soul sickened at the thought that Victoria,
she who had gained his warmest affections,
never could be his. He shrunk from the
debasing idea of entailing poverty and mi
sery on the woman he loved, for he did
not think it probable that her father would
countenance her, were she to sacrifice her
prospects of aggrandizement to what
might be deemed an unworthy passion;
and ever noble and magnanimous, he
E 3 thought
78 DE WILLENBERG.
thought not of stooping to the humiliation
of soliciting her hand in his present cir
cumstances, and the possible mortification
of being repulsed. To know even that
she felt a spark of affection for him, would
have been felicity almost unutterable;
but situated as he now was, every princi
ple of honour equally forbade his seeking
such a knowledge, or avowing his own
sentinents, awarehow distressing it would
be to all parties; he therefore resolved, in
his visit to the castle, to be so circumspect
and watchful over his words and actions,
that the state of his mind could not possi
bly be suspected.
Actuated by these conscientious feel
ings and scruples of delicacy, he was at
first almost led to excuse himself from ac
cepting the count's invitation; but when
he considered, that to decline it would be
to inflict unnecessary pain upon himself,
and anticipated, in going, what delightful
days he should spend in the society of
Victoria,
DE willENBERG. 79
Victoria, all his irresolution vanished, and
he gave the promise required of him.
In pursuance of that promise, he arrived
punctually at the appointed time, and was
agreeably surprised to find the countess
Bertonville at the castle, where she had
come to remain during the summer.
Madame Bertonville was the youngest
sister of count Herman, and had, at a
very early age, married a French noble
man, then on a visit at the court of War
saw, to whom she was most fervently
attached. Her husband, who adored her,
left not a wish of her generous heart un
gratified; he did every thing to deserve
the affection he had conciliated, and for
a while their felicity and happiness were
all that sublunary happiness could be ex
pected to be; they had almost fancied it
perfect, when fate determined to unde
ceive them; with one blow effectually un
E 4 dermined
80 DE WILLENBERG.
dermined it, and robbed her, by a sudden
death, of the idol of her heart for ever.
Her irreparable loss overwhelmed this
amiable woman in grief for a long time
inconsolable, and not all the splendour
and opulence with which her husband's
provident care left her surrounded, could
beguile her of her sorrow, or afford her a
moment's gratification. -
, , ;
For some months she mourned uninter
rupted the death of one so dear to her,
until the kind admonitions of her friends,
representing the duties she owed to herself
and her afflicted family, but, above all, the
duty of submission to the will of the All
wise Director of events, aroused her from
her lethargic grief, and a sense of the cul
pability of indulging it to such excess, de
termined her to rally all her powers to sub
due it.
She returned to the world once more,
and,
DE willENBERG. 81
and,with pious resignation,sought the aid
of society to restore her to herself. She
became, in a short time, perfectly tranquil
and resigned; her grief was mellowed into
a sort of pleasing pensiveness, and those
around her, taking advantage of her na
tural sweetness and docility of temper,
used every exertion, and at length brought
her to a degree of cheerfulness they could
hardly have expected.
The fruit of her marriage was a lovely
boy, whose education, requiring much of
her time and attention, would alone have
divested her sorrow of its poignancy. He
was the exact counterpart of his father, in
the excellence of his disposition, and the
fine expression of his features, which ren
dered him doubly dear to his idolizing
mother, who was fully qualified for the in
teresting task of training his infant mind,
and modelling it to make him worthy of
the noble name he bore.
-
E 5 In
82 IDE WILLENBERG.
In this pleasing occupation passed many
months after her seclusion, and under the
tuition of a mother, equally loving and be
loved, the little Henri rapidly improved
in his juvenile studies; he was the darling
of count Herman, his uncle, whose favour
ite sister, madame Bertonville having ever
been, she had now, at his particular re
quest, come to enjoy the beautiful summer
season at Herman Castle, accompanied by
her little boy.
She was a woman of superior education
and accomplishments; her mind was en
riched with a fund of literary and general
knowledge, which rendered her every
where a desirable companion; and such
was her happy versatility of talent, that to
the young, the old, the gay, and the seri
ous, her conversation was equally a source
of pleasure and information.
Her features were not critically beauti
ful, but there was in them a sweet expres
sion
IDE WILLENBERG. 83
sion of mildness and benignity, that made
her much more interesting than perfect
beauty could have done. Something like
sadness occasionally stole over them; but
too generous to throw a gloom over the
joys of others, by indulging melancholy,
she instantly tried to recollect something
to cheer her, and resumed her usual ani
mated smile.
Theodore, in whose esteem she had al
ways ranked high, and who had spent ma
my happy hours beneath her hospitable
roof, was much gratified at meeting her;
and his little playfellow, as he termed
Henri, he embraced with fraternal affec
tion. -
With the arrival of her friends Victoria's
eheerfulness returned, and with genuine
hospitality the count welcomed this addi
tion to the members of his now happy
house. The social party were not a little
surprised, when an attendant entered to
E 6 anIICUIIICe
|º
.
t
84 DE WILLENBERG.
announce a new visitor—no less a person
age than the duke of Silesia, who presently
entered the drawing-room, arrayed in
smiles of the most condescending polite
TheSS.
* *
x
*
A visit from this haughty prince was a
circumstance, so unusual, and he was so
unaccustomed to bend from his stateliness
into any thing like familiarity, that it at
first occasioned much amazement and con
jecture as to the purport ofit.—“He came,”
he said, “to pay his respects, and inquire
how they had sustained the fatigues of the
late ball ?” . , , -
However unfathomable to them was the
cause, they immediately perceived that a
complete metamorphosis had taken place
in him. He had thrown aside all his wont
ed reserve—he was no longer the proud,
silent, repulsive Leopold, whose very nod
hitherto had appeared almost too great an
honour for any body beneath him in rank
- ** to
DE WILLENBERG. 85
to expect—he was now all life, cheerful
ness, and affability. Even to De Wil
lenberg,the one whom from his inmost soul
he hated, his deportment was changed to
an appearance of the most friendly warmth,
which the latter could by no means ac
count for. To the count and madame
Bertonville his conversation was chiefly
directed; it was lively, intelligent, and
full of anecdote, so that they very soon
began to think him a most agreeable ad
dition to their society.
Three hours passed away thus pleasant
ly, and, to their surprise, though his car
riage and horses had stood all the time at
the portal, he yet evinced no inclination
to depart, nor indeed did they form a wish
that he should.
An elegant repast was served up, of
which he slightly partook; and afterwards,
without much hesitation, he accepted an
invitation to dine and spend the remain
der
|
86 IDE WILLENBERG,
der of the day with them: his equipage
and attendants he therefore sent back to
Warsaw, with orders to come for him at
alate hour in the evening; and then, with
vivacity, joined the amusements that pre
ceded the hour for dinner.
His playful gaiety soon established him
in the good graces of Henri Bertonville,
whom, with a conciliating smile, he took
upon his knee, and caressed. The star,
the sword, and other military insignia,
that the duke wore, particularly attracted
Henri's notice, who, as he admired it,
eagerly declared to the countess, his mo
ther, that he would be an officer, and wear
a star and a sword also.
“So you shall, my pretty boy,” said the
duke, kissing his rosy cheek, “and, with
your mother's permission, I will present
you with a sword, when you are old
enough to wield it, and a commission into
the bargain, to give you an opportunity
of
IDE WILLENBERG. 87
of wielding it honourably. Remember
this my promise to your son, madame
Bertonville,” continued he, addressing the
countess; “allow me the gratification of
providing for him in the noble profession
of arms, to which, I foresee, he will one
day be a bright ornament; he has the
very soul of a hero, and, undermy auspices,
he shall at some future period fight the
battles of his king and country, and perpe
tuate the glories that devolved to him from
his illustrious father: say then that the
interesting charge of directing his military
career shall be mine.”
The inadvertent mention of her hus
band had touched upon a chord that
vibrated most painfully through the
countess's whole frame; but quickly reco
vering herself, she gracefully expressed
her gratitude for the duke's kind offer,
and, to the infinite joy of her son, promis
ed, that if such were his wish on attaining
the
88 DE WILLENBERG.
the age of manhood, it should be complied
with.
This appeared to them, and especially
to madame Bertonville, the impulse of
a generous heart; and while the enrap
tured Henri threw his arms familiarly
round his neck to kiss him for it, he rose
considerably in the opinion of the others,
who believed his natural disposition to be
mingled with much liberality.
It was now proposed by De Willenberg
that they should proceed to the music
room, Victoria having, in the morning,
promised to sing one of his favourite songs
for him.
She was a finished performer on the
harp; and in her voice was united, to all
the beautiful melody and simplicity of
nature, every embellishment that it re
quired from art. It had been cultivated
by
IDE WILLENBERG. 89
by one of the most eminent masters, and
brought almost to perfection; but though
thus capable, she felt a degree of reluc
tance at the idea of displaying her talents
before a stranger, as if exacting from every
body the applause they deserved. She
was, however, far superior to the disgust
ing affectation that degrades so many of
her sex—she did not, like others, drawl
out—“She was sure they flattered her;
indeed she could hardly sing a note ' she
had caught a bad cold, and they must
excuse her—indeed they must " To such
despicable traps for praise and for flattery,
she had never descended; and now con
vinced that her compliance would be
really gratifying to her friends, she felt
that it would be a mark of ridiculous
vanity to refuse.
Several musical instruments were ran
ged round the room, on each of which she
was a proficient; but, at the general re
quest, she took her seat at the harp.
With
90 DE WILLENBERG,
With uncommon rapidity and graceful
ness, she swept the strings through the
symphony of a beautiful song she was
about to commence; such sweet—such
delicious sounds as they sent forth, be
neath her magic touch, thrilled through
every bosom; and even, ere her voice had
given additional charms to them, her au
ditors were almost in raptures. Her rapid
execution now changed to a slow move
ment, but equally beautiful; it command
ed universal silence, for all were eager for
the moment of hearing her own melodious
notes. The first few bars were simple and
pathetic, and sung with all the exquisite
feeling and judgment they required.
From slow, the time gradually changed
to a lively measure, till her full and sono
rous voice burst upon their delighted ears
in all the lofty grandeur of bravura.
All the encomiums their admiration of
this fine performance dictated, werelavish
ed on Victoria.
Henri,
DE WILLENBERG. 91
Henri, who had been standing beside
her, gazing on her lovely features while
she sung, with an expression of infinite
satisfaction, flung his arms round her neck
the moment she had finished, and kissed
her several times.—“Oh, cousin Victoria!”
he cried, “I love you now better than
ever I did before you sang so very, very
sweetly, and you look so handsome, and
SO 32
“Begone, you little flatterer!” she in
terrupted, patting him on the head with
the leaves of some music, and blushing
deeply.
“I am sure I said nothing but the truth,”
he provokingly continued, springing over
and catching hold of De Willenberg's
arm—“ did I, Theodore ? now look at
her, and tell me if I did?”
“Nothing but truth could issue from
your lips,” said De Willenberg, instantly
averting his eyes, which had already been
fixed on Victoria, and his fine complexion
reddening to a perfect carnation hue.
“There,
92 DE WILLENBERG.
“There, cousin!” exclaimed Henri, ex
ultingly; “I knew he would say so, for I
have often before heard him say it of you
to mamma; and don't you love her, too,
as well as I do, in your heart, Theodore?”
“Has your young heart been so soon
taught to love?” asked Theodore, endea
vouring to smile, but still more disconcert
ed than before.
“Indeed it has, for I love mamma and
cousin Victoria, and I love you all, and
therefore you must all love me,” he replied,
running across the room, and jumping
into count Herman's lap; then suddenly
quitting him, he snatched the duke of
Silesia's hand.—“Now tell me, duke, who,
in this room, do you love best ?” said he.
“Yourself, to be sure, my pretty prat
tler,” answered Leopold, and at the same
moment raising his eyes, they encountered
those of Victoria, who, feeling an unplea
sant sensation at his momentary but ardent
gaze, turned to madame Bertonville, and
- requested
DE WILLENBERG. 93
requested her to play a favourite concerto
on the harpsichord.
The countess, perceiving her embarrass
ment, instantly complied; and, to our he
roine's infinite gratification, drew for a -
while the general attention to herself.
The piece she undertook was a very diffi
cult composition, but her powers were
fully equal to it; and she continued thus to
surprise and delight them, until a servant
entered to summon them to dinner.
“Whom do you love best now 2° de
manded Henri, again taking Theodore's
hand, to accompany him to the dining
room; “my mamma, or cousin Victoria?”
“You would be jealous if I were to say
your mamma; so you must guess this
matter,” said Theodore, with more pre
sence of mind than before, and not a little
anxious to parry off such embarrassing
questions.
“Come hither, you teazing little urchin,
and
94 DE WILLENBERG.
and sit beside me,” said the count, seeing
that Theodore was rather confused, and
wishing to relieve him. But Henri was
not to be put off; he would have a direct
answer, and the blushing De Willenberg
was obliged to falter out that he loved
Victoria best. -
That our heroine felt the truth of this,
was evident in her manner.
The duke seemed to know what was
passing in her bosom, and forgetting, for a
moment, his new character, he turned a
dark and malignant scowl on De Willen
berg, who well understood the feelings
that prompted it, but quickly turned
away his eyes, and introduced a new topic
for conversation, to prevent its being ob
served by the rest.
Cheerfulness, hospitality, and elegance,
were now the characteristics of the festive
board; but as soon as etiquette permitted,
Victoria
DE WILLENBERG. 95
Victoria withdrew, with her aunt and
Henri, to the drawing-room; the former
glad to escape from Leopold's frequent
glances,and theawkward situation in which
Henri's innocent loquacity had placed her,
with regard to De Willenberg, of whose
attachment to her she had now had, in
deed, an unequivocal proof. She would
have chidden the artless boy, but that to
notice such a thing seriously, would have
been to disclose at once a secret, which she
trusted her aunt had no suspicion of the
state of her heart—a secret which she
thought prudence and delicacy forbade
her to reveal.
Although the duke had to-day been the
life of the party, she could not conquer
the prejudice his unamiable conduct on
the night of the ball had created against
him; nor had she so little penetration, as
not to comprehend what he meant she
should in his attentions to her. Had
ambition been an inmate of her breast,
here
96 DE WILLENBERG,
here surely was a bait which it would
eagerly have grasped; but Victoria was
one of the sensible part of her sex, and she
knew that with the man she did not es
teem, she certainly could not be happy.
A few circumstances, it was true, inclined
her to a more favourable opinion of him
than his actions might have warranted;
but were he even as amiable as he might.
be the reverse, the heart he sought was
already disposed of; or had it been disen
gaged, it never could be his.
However gratifying to her vanity such
attentions might be from a man of his
rank, she revolted at the idea of counte
nancingthem, anddetermined, should they
put on a more serious appearance, imme
diately to apprise her father of it. These
ideas of him she did not suffer herself to
betray to the countess, whom, it was easy
to perceive, his politeness had biassed in
his favour; and in the esteem of so excel
lent a woman as madame Bertonville,
Victoria
DE willENBERG. 97
Victoria was too liberal to think of at
tempting to degrade him.
They were soon joined by the gentle
men; and by the time the usual repast of
coffee and fruits was ended, the day was
rapidly drawing to a close.
To a resplendent and auspicious sunset,
promising another day equally fine, suc
ceeded the calm and pleasing grey of twi
light. The scene from the window was
truly picturesque: the castle, being on an
eminence, commanded a very extensive
prospect: the gradually-parting trees
formed a long and shady avenue in front,
at the extremity of which the waters of
the Vistula flowed in tranquil grandeur;
the beautiful shrubs and odoriferous flow
ers that adorned its banks seeming to
smile on its unruffled course, like happy
subjects smiling in sweet contentment,
under the peaceful reign of a great and
virtuous monarch. -
VOL. I. F On
98 DE WILLENBERG.
On one side, the eye slowly descended
a slope of thick and variously-tinted foli
age, which appeared to lose itself, by de
grees, in the vast sheet of water beyond—
on the other, a chain of stupendous rocks
rose majestically over the summits of the
far stretching woods, inspiring sensations
of admiration and awe; a few projecting
cliffs, more accessible, and of comparative
ly-small dimensions, afforded ascent to
the goats, and other wild animals, that
browsed on the scanty herbage.
At this hour of silence, all nature around
seemed slumbering; not a sound disturb
ed the serenity in which it reposed; and
as De Willenberg and Victoria approach
ed the window, a lucid cloud, rapidly pass
ing away, unveiled the glorious luminary
of night, whose mild and equal lustre,
falling in one uniform stream of light
over the whole landscape, suddenly made
a full display of some of creation's love
liest works, like a guardian angel draw
ing
DE WILLENBERG. 99
ing aside night's sombre curtain, to shew
the sweet and tranquil slumbers of inno
cence and beauty. -
“I move for a moonlight ramble along
the river-side,” said madame Bertonville,
tapping Vietoria on the shoulder; “I am
this evening, most appropriately, of a sen
timental turn—so what say you?”
* I second the motion,” said Theodore,
promptly.
“And I will support it,” answered Vic
toria.
“But I, as chairman, put a negative
on it,” objected the count; “the even
ing air might give you cold; and more
oyer, Matilda, you and your supporter
shall pay a fine, by-and-by, for propos
ing it, of a duet each, with that military
mad-cap, Theodore. Ay, ay, you may
smile, but remember my protest is enter
ed against your going out.”
“But your protest is overruled, my
lord, by a strong majority,” observed the
F 2 duke,
;
i
º
º
I00 IDE WILLENBERG.
duke, taking Henri's hand, and advancing
towards the ladies—“what says count
Bertonville? do you vote for or against
a walk 2"
“I should like a walk very much,” re
plied Henri; “but then, you know, it
would be unkind to leave poor uncle
alone; and, besides, he is now weaker, so
I must take his part.”
“Very well, my hopeful cousin!” sigh
ed Victoria; “I wonder who will vote
against us next.”
“A vote of thanks to him from you all,”
said the count; “he has gained me over
to your party.” -
“I will give you a kiss now forsaying so,
my dear good father,” said Victoria, run
ning over, and performing her promise.
“Bribery and corruption" exclaimed
his lordship, after affectionately receiving
heras affectionateembrace; “this istheway.
you always cajole me, you artful sorceress;
but go,muffle yourself up;and doyou,good
madame Bertonville, do the same; after
which,
IDE WILLENBERG. 101
which, I will even accompany you o
your excursion.” - *
Allwere soon in readiness; and the duke,
having anxiously watched the opportunity,
proffered his arm to the half-angry Vic
toria, who, of course, could not decline it.
Theodore, secretly chagrined, but too
polite to let it be perceived, gave his to
madame Bertonville; and the count taking
the hand of his little favourite, they set out.
To an attentive observer, Leopold's ex
ultation would have been visible; his ef.
forts to make himself an agreeable compa
nion now surpassed all his former ones,
and for a while succeeded.
r
*
“Though who,” thought our heroine,
“would not have preferred De Willen
berg, even in his dullest moments?”
- The duke's conversation and remarks
F 3 Were
i*
;
102 DE WILLENBERG.
were certainly lively and well-turned; but
that liveliness was not the spontaneous ef.
fusion of nature; it wanted that genuine
air of good-humour that springs only from
the heart; yet she listened with complai.
sance, because she saw he wished to amuse
her. He frequently stopped to admire
some interesting object. His pace, by
degrees, became tediously slow, till at
length, by his never-failing art of manoeuv.
ring, he contrived to let the rest of the
party distance him and his fair companion
to a considerable length.
Victoria was not affectedly prudish, nor
unreasonably fastidious; but now his re
marks began gradually to change, from the
subject of the surrounding scenery, to
irksome and disgusting flattery towards
herself. She at first repelled it with all
her natural gentleness and sweetness of
temper; but finding that her forbearance
only tended to augment the evil, and that
he proceeded with more courage, her in
- dignant
DE willENBERG. 103
dignant feelings gave to her looks and
words such an expression of resentment
as he could not mistake.
As her father's guest—as the brother of
a sovereign, whose virtues every one re
vered—and as the one who could prove
eithera powerful friend, or a powerful foe,
to De Willenberg, she had determined
that nothing short of actual rudeness
should compel her to an open breach with
him. -
The policy of his deep-laid scheme
now alarmed him, with the suggestion
that he had perhaps ventured too far in
his adulation, and he stopped as abruptly
as he could, without appearing to be con
scious of any impropriety. Still our he
roine felt uncomfortable—she leaned on
his arm, but her movements and her voice
were tremulous.
He became more reserved, and respect.
- F 4 fully
104 DE WILLENBERG.
fully polite; but she could not conquer her
embarrassment; and in a soft tone of ti
midity, she entreated that they might
hurry on, and join the others.
To do so would be to frustrate com
pletely his motive for seeking this inter
view, and end at once all chance and op
portunity of making known to her the
passion with which she had inspired him.
—“ They have so far outstripped us,”
said he, “and are still not walking, but
running, I might say, at such an immea
surable rate, that unless you are a second
Atalanta, you cannot possibly overtake
them—besides, lady Victoria, you tremble
—you seem to be indisposed, and walking
very quickly might agitate you too much.”
“Oh, not at all!” she hastily replied;
“I am well—quite well, and my father
and madame Bertonville may perhaps be
uneasy about me.” *
“Uneasy about you !” reiterated the
duke; “do they not know you are with
me?
DE WILLENBERG. I05.
me? while you are under my care, neither
they nor you, lovely Victoria, have any
thing to fear!” -
This unguarded speech again increased
her uneasiness; she saw that a full decla
ration of love hung upon his tongue,
which his lips burned to give utterance
to, but she strove to keep within the
bounds of politeness.—“Your highness
misconceives me,” she faltered; “I am not
afraid, or—or but you know my fa
ther and the countess will wonder—that
is, they will think we are treating them.
very badly, in letting them go on so very
far without us.” - s
“They are not alone,” said Leopold—
“they cannot want us. My lord, your
father, is perfectly pleased with the prat
tling partner of his walk; and,” continued
he, in a tone of ungovernable and ill-na
tured sarcasm, “I will answer for it, the
countess Bertonville is not less charmed
with hers. De Willenberg seems to pos
sess the peculiar—the superhuman power
F 5. of
106 DE WILLENBERG,
of fascinating every female he addresses
I mean, when his own interest prompts
him to exert that power. There are a few
young ladies now in the metropolis, over
whose susceptible hearts he has not ex
erted them in vain; and, from what I can
learn, his exertions will shortly be reward
ed by one of them.”
The motive of this assertion was so ob
vious as entirely to defeat his purpose;
and Victoria half recoiled from him, dis
gusted at his illiberality, offended at his
freedom towards her, his evident suspicion
of her partiality to Theodore—a suspicion
so unhesitatingly and indelicately betray
ed—and his equally-apparent supposition,
that this intelligence would probably give
her pain, and perhaps gain her affections
for himself.
The foremost party had, by this time,
reached the margin of the river, and were
contemplating the moon, as it sailed
*... . through
DE WILLENBERG. 107
through the clear expanseof ether, reflect
ed on the polished surface of the water.
surprised at the delay of Victoria and
her chaperon, madame Bertonville turned
round, and called to them to come on.
Never had our heroine felt more obliged
to her aunt than now ; she was almost in
the very act of bounding away from the
duke, when recollecting, that not even his
ill nature could sanction such a breach of
good breeding in her, she checked herself,
and still leaning on his arm, walked on
along with him.
Unwilling to make her father or the
countess uneasy, she rallied up her spirits,
and appeared tolerably cheerful, by the
time she joined them. She yet knew not
how to get rid of the duke with a good
grace, though determined to do it by some
means; and while her eyes were intently
fixed, apparently in admiration of some
F 6. object
I08 DE WILLENBERG.
object that had attracted the attention of
the rest, her thoughts were busily employ
ed, devising a plan by which she might,
without seeming intentionally to do it,
transfer him to the countess, into whose ear,
she knew, he dared not breathe a syllable.
of such discourse as he had teazed and an
noyed her with; and it will easily be be
lieved that the hope of De Willenberg's
offering her his arm did not a little influ
ence her. Every thing seemed to favour
her wish; nature had formed a sort of recess
in one of the rocks, where some fishermen,
residing in the vicinity of the river, had
hewn a rude bench, and here count Her
man and Henri were now seated.
As Victoria and the duke approached,
she gently withdrew her arm from his,
both being about to sit down. Leopold
had placed himself on one side of her fa
ther, and she was just moving towards the
other, when, at that instant, De Willen
berg and the countess came up.
“Theodore,”
IDE WII,I,ENBERG. . 109
“Theodore,” said the latter, “I will
exempt you from the penance of escorting
an old married woman like me, and give
you a more suitable companion; so now
muster up all your gallantry, and take
charge of Victoria; she will, I am sure,
with pleasure superintend the efforts of
your pencil, in sketching the enchanting
scene, from the little cliff yonder, which
you expressed such a wish to make a
drawing of-will you not, my love?”
“Most certainly I will, my dear aunt,”
replied our heroine, with such unaffected
sweetness and sincerity, as almost reveal
ed the pleasure she did feel in being about.
to accompany him, and being thus freed
from the impertinent compliments of the
duke.—“Should any suggestion of mine
appear useful, I will venture my opinion,
if he permits me; but I am much afraid
that want of practice has blunted the ta
lent I once had for drawing.”
“The talents with which nature has
gifted
II0 DE WILLENBERG.
gifted you, defy the power of circum
stances to blunt them,” said Theodore,
softly, his heart bounding joyfully, as he
drew her arm inside his.
“Do not thus overrate them, or you
may find yourself deceived,” playfully re
buffed Victoria; “appearances, you know,
are often deceitful.”
“The countenance is generally the
mind's best index; and, surely, if such a
one as yours could be a mask for deceit,
heaven itself must be fallacious !” replied
De Willenberg, and instantly his cheeks
reddened with confusion, at his having
suffered himself to say so much.
“I protest,” said the lively madame
Bertonville, who had heard this unequi
vocal proof of his admiration of Victoria,
and whose sincere wish it was that it
should be reciprocal—“I protest you have
learned the art of flattering a lady's good
opinion of herself with surprising facility
and promptitude! I am sure, during the
- whole
II2 DE WILLENBERG.
De Willenberg,” said he, “I must vote
against your monopolizing lady Victoria,
unless it is her ladyship's wish to go with
you, and superintend your interesting og
cupation; if so, I am silent.”
“I always wish to oblige my friends,”
observed Victoria, dryly.
“Your highness should have proposed
a vote against monopoly before we left the
castle,” returned Theodore, emphatically;
“but it is now too late.”
“Bless me!” ejaculated Leopold, forcing
a reluctant smile into his countenance,
“how could I be so very thoughtless?
why, lady Victoria will make the most
beautiful and the most prominent object
in the whole picture.”
“An admirable idea!” exclaimed the
count. “Now, Theodore, I will have you
draw Victoria, in front of the landscape, as
the good genius of the place, and yourself
- 22
aS—aS
“The evil genius, in the background, of .
course, my lord, if you wish for a pictu
resque
DE WILLENBERG. II.3."
resque scene!” suggested the duke, still
wearing a smile, which he hoped all, but
the object of his malice, would mistake
for the smile of good humour.
His words were too pointed to be mis
understood by Theodore, in whose bosom
a storm was fast gathering; which ma
dame Bertonville perceiving, and with her
usual goodness of heart, wishing to avert—
“Indeed, Theodore,” said she, “it shall
be as his highness says—you and Victoria
are the presiding deities here to-night,
and you surely would not be so ungallant
as to give the part of the evil genius to a
fair lady.”
“It is a part, madame, she could ill
perform, and for her sake I will try to
sustain it,” answered Theodore, at once
divining the countess's generous motive.
“But who is to have the picture when
it is done 2" asked the count. -
“Your lordship, if it be worth your ac
ceptance,” replied De Willenberg.
-- - “Nay,
114 I).E WIT,LENBERG,
“Nay, I put in my veto against that!”
objected madame Bertonville; “it is abso
lutely bilking me—I had almost made
up my mind to ask it.”
“But, fortunately, Matilda, I had quite
made up mine; however, I will persuade
him to copy it for you.”
“With infinite pleasure I will,” said
Theodore.
“Indeed you shall not, you ill-natured
creature!” added the countess; “I will
please myself, and have something more
to my taste, to be revenged on you ! I
will have—yes, I insist upon it, knowing
you are something of a poet—I will have a
fine glowing description of this whole pic
ture in blank verse; and you shall intro
duce every one of us under the most
beautiful characters and titles; in a word,
you must write a poem, and call it Theo
dore De Willenberg in Search of the
\Picturesque.”
“I shall have plenty of materials here,”
l said
I) E WILLENTBERG. 115
said the again sprightly Theodore; “per
mit me then to nominate your ladyship
the heroine.”
“Vastly well arranged!” observed the
countess, archly ; “make me the heroine,
and keep a certain young lady,” glancing
at Victoria, “ in the shade!”
“I must confess,” said the duke, find
ing his malevolent attacks were so com
pletely parried off, and likely to revert
upon himself, and assuming now an air of
facetiousness—“I must confess, that were
I lady Victoria, I would punish you as
your want of gallantry deserves, and let
you go and make your drawing by your
self.”
The hint was lost upon Victoria; but
madame Bertonville continued—“I will
give her no excuse; she shall be the heroine,
the author shall be her lover, and I shall
be her interesting confidante.” º,
“I will be still her fond old father,” saidº
count Herman.
“I will be a little page, to wait on cousin
Victoria,”
116 DE WILLENBERG,
Victoria,” said Henri Bertonville; “and,
Theodore, you must make the duke some
great prince in love with Victoria, and
wanting to rob you of her and marry her;
but you must make her hate the very
sight of him, and marry you at last!”
This artless speech had nearly discom
posed all Leopold's stock of firmness; for
a moment he fixed a dreadful look on the
innocent Henri, who, unconscious of hav
ing given offence, smiled at the happy
thought.
. The count and madame Bertonville
smiled also at his ingenuity, not aware of
the sting it had carried with it, or how
appropriate was the character assigned to
the duke.
Theodore and Victoria were covered
with blushes. At that instant, they would
have given worlds to be separated, each
fearful of betraying too much to the other;
* * - while
DE WILLENBERG. 117
while they were almost ready to snatch
the child to their bosoms, and kiss him in
rapturous gratitude, for his having hinted
such an event as their union, however im
probable it appeared to both.
In despite of the duke's manifest aim
to annoy and offend them under the mask
of raillery, they could not help pitying
him for the pain they concluded his wound
ed feelings must have sustained from Hen
ri's unlucky suggestion; and unwilling to
distress him further, by remaining wit
nesses of his chagrin, which they alone
perceived, they hastened towards the cliff.
A narrow beach, slanting towards the
river, ran to a considerable extent in front
of the rocks, in several places obliquely
descending into the water. Here a nu
merous train of fine healthy-looking chil
dren, belonging to the neighbouring cotta
ges, were now, in various ways, enjoying
themselves; some, with eager interest and
delight,
118 DE WILLENBERG.
delight, watching the spreading circles
they made by flinging pebbles into the
water; others, at a distance, as anxiously
following with their eyes the direction of
the baits they threw in for some of the
smaller sort of fish.
De Willenberg and our heroine stopped
for a few minutes to admire these happy
groups, and then ascending a few yards to
where they could take in the whole land
scape at one view, Theodore drew forth
his pencil and pocketbook, and commen
ced his pleasing task. Having faithfully
sketched the outline of this romantic little
picture, which shewed the touches of a
masterly hand, he gave it to Victoria, who
had eagerly watched its progress from the
first stroke of the pencil, and requested
she would add something which he had
forgotten.
He leaned over her in rapture, at the
exquisite style in which she drew, until,
blushing
DE WILLENBERG. 119
blushing at the ardent and tender looks
he involuntarily fixed on her features, she
begged him, with a smile, not to cast so
scrutinous an eye over her poor efforts, or
it would certainly make her spoil the
whole.
He now seated himself beside her, and
turned to view the different occupations
of the juvenile party below.—“Happy,
happy beings " he mentally aspirated,
“innocent as happy! and does indeed that
happiness which so often eludes the grasp of
age, wealth, rank, and power, fly thus spon
taneously to the bosoms of youth, the chil
dren of obscurity and poverty!—Poverty!”
he reiterated; “no; they are richer than
the richest of the great ones, for content
ment is their treasure—better than the
most upright, for the name of Vice they
know not—more exalted than the nobles
who sway the places that gave them birth,
for their peaceful stations they would not
exchange
120 DE WILLENBERG.
exchange for all the gorgeous grandeur
of ambition.”
- From his soliloquy he was suddenly.
aroused by a clashing and terrific sound
in the water; he started from his seat—
“Merciful Heaven, the child's lost!” he
wildly exclaimed, and, with almost frantic
desperation, having dashed off his outer
coat, he plunged instantly into the fright
ful depth beneath.
Victoria screamed aloud, at once conjec
turing the horrible truth, thät one of the
children had fallen in, and that Theodore
had braved destruction in trying to save
it. Providentially her cries were heard
by some fishermen, whose cottages were
close by, and who immediately ran, in
consternation, to see what had happened.
De Willenberg had risen to the surface
of the water, where he was struggling
, with
IDE WILLENEERG. 121
with the weight of the senseless boy and
his own clothes; and the fishermen un
mooring their boats, with all the haste
that prompt humanity and kindness in
spired, directly rushed to his assistance.
They succeeded in dragging him and
his little burden into one of the boats,
where, totally exhausted, his enervated
arm dropped the child it had, till that mo
ment, firmly grasped; he fell prostrate and
insensible along the bottom of the vessel,
and almost at the same instant, the hapless
young sufferer he had so magnanimous
ly risked his life in endeavouring to pre
serve, ceased to live,
WOL. I. G. CHAP.
122 DE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER IV.
-----
Virtue does still
With scorn the mercenary world regard,
Where abject souls do good, and hope reward
Beyond the worthless trophies men can raise.
Rowe,
THE alarm had now been spread, and the
bank was covered with dismayed specta
tors. Terror had for some minutes ren
dered Victoria insensible to what was pass
ing, and on somewhat recovering, she
found herself folded in her father's arms.
—“My child ! my darling! thank God,
thank God! you are safe!” he affection
ately exclaimed, pressing her still closer to
his bosom, and then sobbing convulsively,
his head dropped on the shoulder of her
he had himself until now been supporting.
… The
DE WILLENBERG. I23
The agony arising from excess of joy at
her safety having abated, he started, and
clasped his hands in reproach at his having,
in the ardency of that joy, so nearly for
gotten his almost equally-adored Theo
dore, who was borne ashore in the arms of
two of the men. What a sight was his
pallid and deathlike form for the heart
rived Victoria! On beholding him mo
tionless, and to all appearance perfectly
devoid of life, her head grew giddy, her
a vision became dimmed, and placing her
hand before her eyes to shut out the ap
palling spectacle, with a faint cry of an
guish, she dropped fainting into the arms
of the weeping madame Bertonville.
Here was a fresh calamity; between
two objects so dear to him, the count
scarcely knew which to fly to, but assured
by his sister that Victoria would soon re
vive, and conscious that to prevent the
vital spark in Theodore from entire ex
tinction required instant and powerful as
G 2 sistance,
I24 IDE WII.I.ENBERG.
sistance, he returned to the latter, the
duke having meantime offered, with the
countess, and the aid of one of the by
standers, to conduct lady Victoria back to
the castle, and dispatch some of the do
mestics immediately to this dreadful scene,
which he did as soon as our heroine had
unclosed her eyes, and was able to proceed
with them.
A humane and honest-looking peasant
held the corpse of the child in his arms, .
while big tears trickled down his sunburnt
cheeks for its untimely fate. The count
viewed it with great agitation, and tears
of sympathy burst forth unrestrained from
this benevolent and venerable man—“Oh,
noble, excellent, matchless being !” he
sobbed, “has he thus risked his invalu
able life to no purpose? This sweet boy
is breathless! quite, quite dead! and, alas!
my Theodore is scarcely less cold and in
animate '"
- - - - - The
DE WILLENBERG. 125
;
The necessity of great exertion and
promptitude to effect De Willenberg's re
covery, was obvious to all; and it was ap
prehended, that if they undertook to con
vey him so far as the castle before some
potent remedies were had recourse to, all
hope would speedily be terminated.
In this agonizing dilemma, one of the
fishermen respectfully approached the
count, and making a profound bow, which
almost brought his head in contact with
the ground, he thus addressed him—“I
be but a poor fellow, to be sure, my lord,
and I humbly ask your lordship's pardon
if I offend you; but indeed I know you are
too kind to scorn me because I am not rich.
Now there is my poor little cottage yon
der, and if your lordship would but con
descend to let us bring that brave, noble,
worthy young gentleman to it, we have
got a comfortable wood fire, and a good
warm bed beside it, into the bargain, to
put him into, and blankets, and all as clean
. . . . G 3 aS
126 IDE WII,I,ENBERG.
as hands can make them, I do think
we could soon recover him. Old Margue
rite, my wife, will quickly bring him to
with some of her doctor's stuff. God bless
her she's a charitable, good old soul as
ever breathed, though I say it myself, only
she does talk a little matter too much, like
other old magpies; but it would brighten
up her poor dearface to see such grand folks
as your lordship and that young cavalier
inside our humble doors.”
“You have not mistaken me, my
friend,” said the count, in a kind and con
ciliating tone. “With gratitude I accept
your hospitable offer, and be assured it
shall not go unrewarded. Butlet us lose
not a moment; every succeeding one in
creases my fears for him; therefore con
duct us thither, I entreat you, without
delay.”
With a smile of genuine humanity and
goodness, and eyes irradiated by the hope
of contributing to the restoration of De
Willenberg,
DE WILLENBERG, 127
Willenberg, and the happiness of count
Herman, who had gained the love of every
poor, as well as every rich man, in his
neighbourhood, Dominique led the way
to his homely but comfortable abode.
The most melancholy part of the scene
still remained to be witnessed. Their ears
were presently assailed by the most heart
rending and piteous screams, and they be
held the mother of the drowned child fran
ticly running from an opposite hamlet
with her lifeless infant in her arms.
She suddenly stopped, and gazing with
a look of wild despair on its pallid features,
she seemed for a moment in a state of un
consciousness; a torrent of tears at length
began to flow, and with a harrowing burst
of agony she exclaimed—“Oh, oh, my
William my darling boy! my angel! my
only—only child! what is to become of me,
now you are gone? Who shall your poor
G 4 mother
I28 DE WILLENBERG.
mother have to comforther in her old days?
Oh, Heaven, extend thy pity to me! All
I held dear on earth fled! my husband, my
child, both—both gone for ever ! I shall
never, never see them again!” and hiding
her face now on its cold bosom, she wept
bitterly.
On entering the cottage, count Herman
handed a purse to Dominique, requesting
he would go and present it to the afflicted
woman, and offer her, in his name, every
consolation in his power to bestow, with
an assurance that the lord of Herman Cas
tle would henceforth be her friend and be
nefactor.
The interior of the cottage was strik
ingly neat, and Marguerite, a respectable
looking woman, long past the meridian of
life, unwilling to quit her occupation of
cooking her fond husband's wholesome
supper, was pacing to and fro in trembling
anxiety
DE WILLENBERG. 129
anxiety to know what direful event had
occasioned the alarm, and summoned him
so abruptly from his cheerful fireside.
On seeing the inanimate De Willen
berg carried in by Dominique and two
other men, her presence of mind did not.
forsake her. She guessed what had hap
pened, and instantly anticipating what her
husband was about to say, she began bu
sily to prepare the bed for the reception
of “the dear young gentleman.” -
A crowd of well-meaning people follow
ed, all offering their -services; but the
count seeing that their numbers were more
likely to impede than promote the neces
sary exertions for Theodore's recovery,
mildly reminded them of it; and having
insisted on handsomely remunerating all
who had been in any way accessary to his .
rescue from a watery grave, he thanked
them for the heartfelt concern they evinced,
and entreated them to depart, which, with
~. G 5 tearful
I 30 DE WILLENBERG.
tearful eyes, they did, having first received
a promise, that when he revived, and was
past all danger, they should be informed
of it.
In the meantime old Dominique, who
had readily undertaken the office of mi
mistering angel to dame Gertrude's woes,
approached her with all the gentleness of
his nature, and the most soothing voice he
could assume, holding the glittering offer
up to her view.—“Now, dame,” said he,
“if you take this misfortune so to heart,you
know, our old Bible says it is a very wicked
thing—ay, and a crying shame, and a sin,
to fly in the face of the Lord. I will be
bound to say, that little Billy is happier
than you or me now, singing hymns in
heaven—ay, that he is, if ever a child went
there. God bless him and all of us, and
send us there ! Here, Gertrude, here is
what will comfort your aching heart,
though, to be sure, as a body may say, it
has been sorely cut by such a misfortune—
here
DE WILLENBERG. I31
here is what the great lord sent you that is
now biding in my little hut over the way.
Blessings on him, and that sweet young
cavalier! who is, for all the world, the finest
fellow my two good-looking eyes ever be
held. Alack-a-day, what a woeful plight
he was in Oh, if you had but seen him
struggling in the river, with poor Bill in
one hand, while he kept himself afloat
with the other! Come, come, now, dame,
you know it is ofno avail to fret and cry so
—though,Lord,isitnotallnaturalenough?
Poor Bill ! he was a nice, well-behaved
child; but put your trust in God, Ger
trude, and he will soon send you another,
glory be to his holy name * -
This harangue, delivered with much
emphasis, appeared to have had some in
fluence in checking the violence of Ger
trude's grief; and drying her eyes with the
corner of her apron—“Oh, Gaffer " said
she, “how—how am I to have another? I
shall never be a wife or mother again.”
*** * G 6 This
I32 DE WILLENBERG.
This was a question that, with all his
profound powers ofreasoning, puzzled poor
Dominique, who, to evade it, slipped the
purse into her hand. She regarded it for
sometime with doubt and amazement,then
again looking in the face of her child, she
sobbed aloud, and turned homewards, in
voking blessings on her noble benefactor.
By the time Dominique returned, the
unremitting assiduities of those around
him had at length happily succeeded in
rekindling the little spark of life that lin
gered in the bosom of De Willenberg. He
had been expeditiously divested ofhis wet
clothes, and placed in the bed which the
attentive Marguerite had taken care to
warm for him; she then had recourse to
her pharmacopoeia, the whole of which she
rummaged, to find out the most efficient
remedies and potent cordials. Every pot
and bottle—every herb and balsam that
composed her stock of medicine, were on
this occasion routed from their shelves,
and
IDE WILLENBERG. º 133
and fortunately some of them did in reality
possess the virtues she ascribed to them,
“having,” as she said, “been made of the
very best of every thing by her own two
hands.” S - - -
On opening his eyes, and finding him
self in such a situation, De Willenberg
was sensibly affected. The count was
hanging over him, with one of his hands
fast clasped in his, and regarding him with
deep solicitude and tenderness. At first
he seemed rather bewildered at the sight
of strangers, and the confusion of ideas
that crowded on him; but he was soon
brought to a perfectrecollection of the past,
and one of his most anxious inquiries was
whether the child had survived? They
were obliged to deceive him with an affir
mative, lest the shock of hearing it was no
more, should again overcome him. His
next interrogatory related to Victoria's
safety, who, with madame Bertonville,
had, he hoped, sustained no more than a
- - - temporary
I34 * DE WILLENBERG.
temporary alarm. Assured of this, he
became in a short time quite composed;
and those whose attendance was now no
longer necessary, took their leave for the
night, with looks of unfeigned joy at their
providential success, and proud of receiv
ing the grateful thanks of the count and
his amiable charge.
Tired nature, now almost spent with"
so long and severe an exercise of its ener
gies, required the aid of its “sweet re
storer, balmy sleep;” and De Willenberg
feeling the tranquillizing effects of the
opiateMarguerite had administered to him,
entreated the count to return home, and
his generous hosts to retire to rest, and by
degrees sunk into a calm and refreshing
sleep.
But to leave him thus was far from be
ing the intention of any.
“We have another good bed, to be
sure,”
DE WILLENBERG. 135
sure,” said Dominique, “Heaven be
praised but it would not do for us poor
folks to go and lie down comfortably, and
let your lordship be without a bed to take
your proper night's rest on. No, no, we
are not such Hottentots as that.”
“The Virgin forbid!” cried his wife.
“Now do, my lord,” continued he, “go
and have a good sound sleep, if you will
condescend to get into such a bed as it is,
and Marguerite has put nice clean linen
on it, and 22
“Ay, that I have, my lord,” interrupted
his cara sposa. “Now do let us prevail
on your lordship to go, and my old man
and I will watch all night beside this sweet
young gentleman, as if he was our own
born child. Bless his beautiful face : it
puts me so in mind of our poor dear Ja
ques, that isgone to be a sailor. Ah! well
do I remember the very morning he went;
it poured and poured, as if the very sky.
was crying, as well as ourselves, and—”
“Lord love you, don't go over that long
story,
136 DE WILLENBERG.
story, that you have told fifty times again
and again, at such a time as this!” said Do
minique, perceiving that his better half
was about to indulge freely in the grand
prerogative of woman; “his lordship does
not want to talk now about our Jaques,
or any body else.”
At this instant Conrad, the long-at
tached and faithful servant of De Willen
berg, entered to inquire again about his
beloved master, and to see if he was still
improving. Traces of tears were yet vi
sible in the eyes of this worthy domestic,
who, as soon as he had heard of what had
happened, had flown to him with all the
speed anxiety and affection could lend him;
nor could he be persuaded to quit the
bedside, until fully assured that animation
was so completely restored, as to pro
mise every probability of his recovery.
At the request of the count, he then re-º.
paired to the castle, to inform all there of
the happy result of their exertions. ... He
. . . . WaS
º
DE will ENBERG. 137
was the fourth messenger sent thither to
quiet their apprehensions; and having
performed his mission, he hastened back
to stay with his master during the night.
By another of the servants who accom
panied him, the count addressed a few
lines to the duke of Silesia, entreating his
highness to make allowances for his ab
sence, and expressing his desire to remain
at the eottage until next morning, when
Theodore could with safety be removed;
and again communicating his patient's fa
vourable symptoms to Victoria and the
countess, he took his station beside the bed.
The duke was secretly pleased at this,
as the absence of the count, and of Theo
dore in particular, would for a few hours
afford him exclusively the society of Vic
toria and her prepossessing aunt. He was
not so inhuman, so sunk in depravity, as
to rejoice at such a circumstance as that
which had threatened the life of De Wil.
- lenberg,
138 DE WILLENBERG,
lenberg, his hated rival, or be chagrined at
the intelligence of his recovery; but still,
as that very circumstance was in effect
so favourable to his wishes, and that
now no danger was to be dreaded, he at
least did not regret it. Affecting, how
ever, to feel the deepest concern, the bet
ter to ingratiate himself with Victoria,
who he had soon observed viewed him in
no very flattering light, he contrived to
loiter out the remainder of the evening at
the castle. Ere his reluctant departure he
begged leave to promise himself the plea
sure of calling on the ensuing day, “for
the purpose,” he said, “ of congratulating
them all, and Theodore in particular, on
his recovery;” but in reality, as it would
afford him an additional opportunity of
seeing Victoria, in whom he found some
thing new every hour to increase his ad
miration.
Amongst the studies the count had pur
sued at the university in his early days,
and
IDE WILLENBERG. 139
and indeed almost to the present period,
was that of medicine, one of his most fa
vourite sciences, and one in which his pro
found researches were shortly rewarded by
an ample knowledge of his subject; so
that being an accomplished scholar, he
possessed every requisite, with the excep
tion of a formal certificate, for becoming a
member of the Æsculapian body. He had
seen several cases of suspended animation,
and paid particular attention to the differ
ent modes used for its restoration,amongst
which, that of inflating the lungs seemed
to him the most important and effectual,
and to which remedy he had resorted in
this desperate emergency.
The castle being at a great distance from
the residence of any practitioner of emi
nence, he saw that it would be not only
absurd, but highly culpable, to await the
arrival of a physician, ere any active mea
sures were adopted, aware that by that
time such measures would be all to no
purpose,
140 IDE WILLENBERG,
purpose, and De Willenberg have sunk
completely into the sleep ofdeath, through
reprehensible and criminal neglect. "
Such were the prudent and laudable
motives of the count for resolving to be
himself De Willenberg's medical attend
ant; but it was also his determination,
should circumstances indicate the proprie
ty of it, to summon a physician from the
metropolis on the following day.
In any other case, Conrad's modesty and
good sense would have dictated to him
the indecorum of obtruding himself into
the company of his superiors; but sorrow,
like death, is a leveller of distinction, and
in their mutual condolence,inequality was
for a while mutually forgotten.
The most winning affability of manners
towards all to whom fortune had assigned
a place in society less elevated than his
own, ever particularly distinguished count
& . . . . . Herman,
DE willENBERG. 141
Herman, and in scrupulously avoiding any
thing like an exaction of homage or re
spect, his magnanimity was ever rewarded
by the love, respect, and reverence of all.
By those of more exalted rank he was
equally venerated, for he possessed too
much innate dignity to bend servilely to
the looks of power or of rank, however
high, unaccompanied by those virtues that
in reality ennoble man; while he had too
much sound sense also, not duly to esteem
and appreciate such virtues, and such he
found graced the cottage of the peasant
oftener than the palace of the prince.
Fearful of being in the way, or his pre
sence being any restraint upon these good
people,herequested, as they would not go
to bed; that they would at least refresh
themselves with their comfortable Supper,
which had lain untouched for some hours.
He read in their eloquent looks the wishes
they did not venture to utter; and at once
- comprehending
142 DE WILLENBERG.
comprehending the motive, he unhesi
tatingly gratified them by partaking of
their plentiful meal. -
Marguerite was so much elated by the
condescension of their illustrious guest,
that she found it totally impossible to re
strain her usual volubility, and she could
not help telling the count the whole story,
with innumerable digressions, of “how
an unfortunate young girl had fallen in
love with her poor dear Jaques; but the
one Jaques loved had unfeelingly married
another, and he could never love any body
else; and so this said unfortunate young
girl, finding her passion unreturned, had
recourse to the desperate extremity of
ending her love and her life together, for
which very silly and very terrible purpose,
she thought proper one day to fling herself
neck and heels into the river, almost in
the very spot where the dear young gen
tleman was so near losing his life; and she
having unluckily, before the fatal plunge,
tied
DE WILLENBERG. 143
tied her legs together by means of her gar
ters, struggled and struggled in vain to
get out again, just then thinking she had
done a very foolish thing; and her folly
was attended by the consequence she
might have expected—her sinking very
soon to the bottom, and taking her unwill
ing departure to another world. This her
poor dear Jaques took very much to heart,
and could never bear to look at that death
tempting river afterwards. But in order
to avoid seeing it, it was necessary that he
should not continue to live beside it, and
therefore he made up his mind to go to sea,
which he did one very wet and stormy
day, their tears considerably adding to the
torrents of rain, and their sighs to the howl
ing winds.
“Well,to sea herpoor dear Jaques went,
and many a battle had he fought, and
much the prize-money he had obtained,
which he failed not to share with them,
thus
144 DE WILLENBERG.
thus gaining honour to himself, and im
parting happiness to their old hearts.”
During this recital, which she spun
out as long as she thoughthuman patience
could endure it, she had been more than
once interrupted by her considerate hus
band; but she was not to be so easily dis
couraged when she had entered upon her
favourite theme, and with a quiet “well,
as I was saying,” she went on, with per
fect composure, to the very end of her poor
dearJaques' eventful history,naturally con
cluding that, as the count refused to go to
bed, he required something to keep him
awake, which, if talking could do, he, with
a smile, owned to himself that she had hit
on a most infallible remedy. . .
The morning was considerably advanced
before Theodore awoke; and when he did,
their expectations of the beneficial effects
of so long and sound a sleep were realized.
The
FoE WILLENBERG. 145
The returning colour in his cheek announ
ced that his health and cheerfulness were
returning also; but fatigued by all he had
gone through, he was still languid and
weak; his expressive countenance declared
his gratitude to his preservers, ere his lips
mated manner, he thanked the kind old,
couple who had so cheerfully relinquished
a whole might's rest to watch beside him.
His features acquired an additional glow:
from the energy with which he spoke,”
and this gave a fresh stimulus to Margue
rite's easily-stimulated propensity to hear.
the (to her) most delightful sound of her
own voice. The beauty of her poor dear:
Jaques being a never-failing topic, she
contrived to find out a striking resem
blance between him and De Willenberg.'
Each had the same fine high and polished'
forehead, fair asthe driven snow—thesame
sparkling jet black eyes—the same curly
raven locks—the same finely-shaped and’’
manly limbs—the same graceful mien,
WOL. I. H erect
146 IXE WILLENBERG.
erect and dignified!-. In short, could she
have reconciled impossibilities, she would
have made it out that her poor dear Jaques
and our elegant young hero were one and
the same person.
2. ' -
- This fond mother fancied her son almost
perfection; nor had she a little flattered
him in a comparison with De Willenberg.
Each of them had, it is true, eyes, nose,
and mouth, besides a tolerable head of hair;
and so far they were unquestionably alike,
but no farther: however, this was Mar
guerite's hobby, and her auditors were
highly amused at her unwearied indul
gence on it.
º, " ..". -
... Theodore now learned the gratifyingin
telligence that Victoria and madame Ber
- tonville had been the first visitors from
the castle that morning, and at a very early
hour had come to inquire how he had pass
ed the night. Having received a satisfac
tory account of him, and the count's pro
* . . . . * . ... mise
-
DE WILLENBERG. 147
mise that, should Theodore's strength be
sufficient to permit his removal, they
would breakfast at the castle, our heroine
and her aunt returned, expecting that by
the time they reached home, the duke of
Silesia would be there.
Punctual to his appointment, the self.
invited duke had indeed arrived. They
found him amusing the attentively-listen
ing Henri (whose favour he thought it as
well to preserve) with numerous tales of
battles and warlike exploits; and when his
fond mother came in, Leopold, in order to
win her favour effectually, again predicted
the futureglorious achievementsofher son.
According to the count's direction, the
carriage was now sent to convey him and
De Willenberg home. The latter felt so
much the debilitating effects of all he had
undergone, that he would have preferred
remaining where he was, and in bed, for at
least the rest of the day, had there not
H 2 been
148 DE WILLENBERG.
.*.*.*,
been something that operated as a charm
over his almost-exhausted frame. The
idea of seeing Victoria lent him for a while
a degree of strength almost supernatural,
and without allowing thecount to perceive
the effort he made, he at once prepared to
accompany him.
No arguments could persuade Domi
nique or his wife to accept the smallest re
compence for their hospitality. In vain
the count reasoned and insisted; they
would receive no remuneration; their ser
vices, as they had been prompt and effi
cacious, so had they been disinterested;
and their feelings being evidently mortified
by the supposition that they could take a
bribe for performing the common offices
of humanity, he at length ceased to urge
it, on condition that they would both
come and spend a certain day in every
week with Jacintha, the old housekeeper
at the castle—a proposition that Margue
rite, in particular, most readily agreed to,as
* § {i she
DE WILLENBERG. 149
she happened to know that dame Jacin
tha was luckily gifted with an inexhaust
ible fund of loquacity, and such extraor
dinary volubility of tongue, as almost out
stripped her own.
H 3 CHAP.
150 IDE WILLENBERG, :
CHAPTER V.
ºper-prºpºrºzºº-º-º-º-º-º-º
But he, his own affection's counsellor,
Is to himself so secret and so close, -
As is the bud bit with an envious worm,
Ere he can spread his sweet leaves to the air,
Or dedicate his beauty to the sun.
ShakesPEAR E.
THEoDoRE, not having been informed of
the intended second visit of the duke, was
not a little surprised at finding him at the
castle; that surprise was mingled with
something like displeasure at seeing him
deeply engaged in anapparently-interesting
conversation with Victoria; for just before
his entrance, the duke had contrived to
engross her attention to sometrifling topic,
to which his consummate art gave a degree
of momentary interest.
He
I)E WILLENBERG. T51
He knew not why he ought to feel
displeased, yet he did feel so; and at first
the cold and formal salute of mere polite
ness seemed to him all she was deserving
of; nor was he more warmly disposed to
wards Leopold: but when she arose, with
the sweet and resistless smile she always
wore to him, the true indication, of the
pleasure she experienced in seeing him—
extended her beautiful hand to receive his,
and told him, in a tone that came from
the heart, how happy she was to behold
him safe under her father's roof once more,
every shade of uneasiness vanished; a con
genial smile irradiated his fine features,
which, more powerfully than words could
do, told her how happy he felt in being
under the same roof with her again. "
r
- ºr ºf . . . . . . ; ; ; ; ; ori;
This intrusion was by no means agree.
able to the duke, who could hardly con
ceal that it was not so; but now convinced
that Theodore was an established favourite
with all the inmates of the castle, and that
H 4 every
152 DE WILLENBERG.
every effort to lessen their esteem for him
would be not only unavailing, but prob
ably afford a clue to the development of his
owntcharacter, he deemed it prudent to
master his feelings, and be studiously cour
teous and attentive to him in future.
27, º, …'. . . . . . . * - >
Ito came at length to the impatient
Henri's turn to be noticed. He had mo
destly refrained from obtruding himself
till the very last, and was standing pen
sively at one of the windows; but seeing
DeWillenberg approach him, a glow of
delight mantled his pretty cheeks, and in
a transport of joy, the affectionate boy
sprang into his arms, and kissed him.
*: f : . . . . . . . . " . . . . .
“Oh, Theodore,”, said he, “I never
thought I could have wept so much for
any body as I have for you ! I thought
we had lost you for ever; and if we had,
I should soon have died from grief; but
you are come back safe to us all, and so
we will be happy once more, and you
º *** - must
DE WILLENBERG, 153
must never, never go near that terriblerivery
again.—Do now promise me that you will
not.”
“I trust I shall never give my sweet
little friend cause to weep again,” said
Theodore.
“The little goosecap is actually in tears
this moment " observed Victoria, coming
over and patting his cheek.
“Now I am sure, cousin Victoria,” sob
bed he, “ you ought not to reproach me,
for you cried as bitterly as I did last night
yourself; and I know you love him too as
well as I do, though you don't tell him so.”
“You are determined to reward his
bravery, at all events,” said the countess,
“by assuring him, on your own authority,
that a young lady loves him. You think,
with the song, that none but the brave
deserve the fair.” . . . .
“And always most candidly speaks
what he thinks,” said Victoria, endeavour
ing, if possible, to look unembarrassed;
while Theodore, forgetful for a moment
H 5 of
154 DE WILLENBERG.
of every thing else, in the blissful idea
that she did indeed love him, had almost so
far betrayed himselfasto let Henri fallfrom
his arms.
“But indeed, mamma, I know that she
does love him,” proceeded Henri, not un
derstanding, or not choosing to under
stand, his fair cousin's disconcerted looks,
“for she said last night, that if he were to
die, neither she, nor any body else in the
castle, could ever be happy again.”
It required no more than this to confirm
De Willenberg's hopes; it was proof po
sitive; and from such a proof, how could
he feel otherwise than happy? but per
ceiving that Henri's well-meant exposure
of her sentiments was painful to Victoria,
he endeavoured, with as much address as
possible, to silence him, which he by de
grees effected.
. . “And now, young lady, if you have a
few minutes to spare to talk to an old man,
º where
DE WILLENBERG. 155
where is my picture that you have so slyly
tried to defraud me out of?” demanded
the count. • *...*.*...* . . ."
“And which you did, bonafide, defraud
me out of.” observed madame Bertonville,
glancing at her brother.
“Indeed my father accuses me wrong
fully,” returned our heroine, opening a
little drawer in a bureau, and reluctantly
producing it. “But—but I wished—that
is, I thought a little addition to it would
evince—I mean, would improve it.” ‘’s
“Come then, tell us what this addition
would evince, and how it would improve
it, and what it is altogether?” continued
the count.
“My life on it, I guess!” cried madame
Bertonville, archly. “I know not what
your lordship may think, but, in my opi
nion, the figure of a young man, heroically
plunging into the river to save a drowning
infant, would impart a certain interest to
the whole picture it were otherwise de
void of.”
H 6 “And
156 IDE WILLENBERG.
v. “And look extremely like reality,” ob
served the duke.: “What is your lady
ship's opinion?” demanded he, addressing
Victoria.
“That it would be very appropriate,”
she replied.
“Then make that addition, Victoria,”
said her father, with emphasis; “and as
the idea was yours, so also shall be the
picture, as I know you wish to keep it.”
: “There is ahopeful brother,” exclaimed
the countess, “never to offer it to me!”
“Indeed, my dear aunt, you shall have
it, when it is finished, if you wish,” said
Victoria, ever ready to sacrifice her own
gratification to that of others.
“Yes, my love,” replied her aunt; “I
will have it hung in your boudoir, where,
I know, you will best like to see it, and
where it shall remain; so put it up for the
present, for methinks it is time Pietro
should summon us to breakfast.”
“Indeed I think so too,” said Henri.
At
IDE WILLENBERG. 157
At that moment Pietro himself opened
the door, to announce what they had been
wishing for, and count Herman led the
way to the saloon, where, on Leopold's
account, a collation, more than usually ele
gant, had been prepared. ---
De Willenberg's exertion in quitting
his bed, ere his health was really adequate
to it, proved too much for his constitution
to sustain with firmness, and breakfast, a
meal he usually enjoyed more than any
other, now remained almost untouched by
him. His assumed energy had exhaust
ed itself; a general lassitude pervaded his
frame; he could no longer wear the semb
lance of health and spirits he possessed not,
and all presentremarked the alterationin his
appearance, particularly the count, whose
anxiety about him induced him to pro
pose sending for a physician immediately,
in which he was joined by the rest.
To this however Theodore would not
agree;
158 BE WILLENBERG.
agree; with a faint smile, he told the
count that he would continue to be his
patient exclusively; such being his wish,
it was not opposed, and he forthwith fol
lowed his salutary prescription, of retiring
to bed, and taking some proper medicine,
furnished from his lordship's chest; having
previously, requested that no apprehen
|sions might be entertained respecting him,
which would disturb the quiet of the fa
mily, as it needed no more than a little
self-denial on his part to restore him to
perfect health.
Aware that any appearance of dejection
on his account would only tend to make
him uneasy, they strove to look cheerful,
and to conceal that alarm about him which
they really felt.
Never, indeed, till now, did Victoria
believe she could feel so seriously interest
ed for him; for never till now had she
been so fully convinced that she loved
him,
DE WILLENBERG. I59
him, and that her love was returned with
ardour and sincerity; and the means that
had brought her such a proof, though
painful and distressing to herself, she now
could hardly regret. t
The count expressed a wish thatmadame
Bertonville and Victoria would visit the
abode of Gertrude, to endeavour to con
sole her for the loss of her little boy, and
should she appear worthy of his bounty,
to promise her, in his name, a small inde
pendence for the remainder of her life.
. . .
Ever ready to undertake an office of
humanity, they instantly agreed to this,
and, as soon as Theodore had withdrawn,
prepared to set out.
Had they been going on any other mis
sion, the duke would immediately have
offered to escort them; but great as his
wish was for Victoria's society, he thought
it would be derogatory to his royal dignity,
to
160 DE WILLENBERG.
to accompany them to the humble abode
of poverty, however deserving, or however
laudable, might be the purpose for which
they were going. Under this impression,
he took his leave as soon after breakfast
as he could do so with a good grace, and
without giving them room to suspect his
motive. , * *
Luckily for him, however, the repug
nance to his accompanying them was mu
tually felt: Victoria disliking him, wished
not for his company, and madame Berton
ville, who longed for an opportunity of
having some private conversation with
her niece, was glad that to that oppor
tunity he offered no impediment.
The count and Henri remained with
De Willenberg, and the ladies therefore
set out, téte-à-tête, on their walk.
None had Victoria's happiness and wel
fare more at heart than the countess, for
she
IXE WILLENBERG. 161
/
she regarded her with maternal affection;
and there was a subject she deemed con
nected with that happiness, which she had
long wished to speak to her about, and a
more favourable time than the present
she could not have chosen. Her penetra
tion had very soon discovered her niece's
predilection for Theodore. Nor was she
less acute in her observations on the lat
ter, who, it required not much discern
ment to perceive was no less partial to
our heroine. ºr . . . . . . . .
* * * * * . . ) : -, * * -
DeWillenberg had ever been one of
her most distinguished favourites, and it
was her earnest wish to see him united to
one so eminently calculated to make him
happy as Victoria; each, she knew, pos
sessed the qualifications necessary to con
tribute to the felicity of the other; but,
alas! whatever, degree of happiness, it is
possible for mortal to attain, will notspon
taneously present itself within our grasp;
if we would possess it, we must labour
for
162 IDE WILLENBERG.
for it, and cull it from amongst the vicis
situdes of the world, as the bee culls her
sweets often from the humblest weeds.
It is as a vast mountain in our road through
life, to gain whose summit we must en
counter the brambles and thorns that
surround its base, nor shrink from climb
ing the fearful height.
Madame Bertonville feared, as well as
our lovers, that obstacles existed to their
union, which might not be easily over
come, and the chief of which was Theo
dore's having been so completely abandon
ed by his father; like Victoria, she feared
that the count would never consent to her
marriage with a discarded son, let the cause
of his abandonment be what it might, or
however free from culpability. Theodore
might virtually be. She was slightly ac
quainted with his father, and from the little
she did know of his character, she wished to
know no more. She had also been informed
of his rejection of mademoiselle Klopstock,
and,
DE WILLENBERG, R63
and more than he himself was aware of, a
vow she had made to be revenged for the
affront. t 'u'. ; : . . . 1''.
-
-
. . . . . . . * - - - - -
' ' , , . . . . .” * * - - * :
She sometimes deemed that vow the
mere impulse of quick resentment, with
out any determinate meaning; but at
others she entertained serious apprehen
sions that the malignant Maddeline, hav
ing had her pride so stung, by an abso
lute refusal from De Willenberg to be
come her husband, was indeed, brewing
in her dark mind some terrible plot; of
vengeance, which she would stop at no
thing to execute. - - - - *Y. , ,
* . . . .
But this was not all. In her frequent
conversations with Theodore she had
learned the state of this heart, that his
affections were unalienably fixed, upon
Victoria, though he forbore openly to
avow it; and she, at once; saw that that,
forbearance proceeded from an apprehen
sion that he had unfortunately placed his
º love
164 DE:WILLENBERG.
love on an unattainable object, his pover
ty, and his almost-isolated state, rendering
him, in his own opinion, unworthy of
her. Nor would she urge a confession
that must have been so painful to him,
seeing that she could not, with propriety,
encourage him to hope that his passion
would ever be rewarded as she wished.
She had never hitherto addressed her
niece on such a topic, prudently wishing,
that if her love were hopeless, it might,
with time, wear entirely away; but the
last few days had effected a total altera
tion in her opinion, and she now firmly
believed that every thing was in a fair
train for renewing the hopes, and confirm
ing the happiness of each.
From Victoria's ingenuous replies she
easily ascertained all she wished to know.
Our heroine was not one who could easily
dissemble, and almost before she was aware
of it, her warm and confiding heart sent
{ a full confession to her lips. -
* * * * It
DE, WILLENBERG. 165
'. It was now madame Bertonville's in
tention to exert all her influence with the
count, her brother, to promote the union.
of this amiable pair, not doubting that she
should be able to draw a similar avowal of
his love from De Willenberg, for she had
learned enough to convince her of it; and
this she did not hesitate to inform Victo
ria of whose feelings on the occasion our
feeble pen must acknowledge itself inade
r
quate justly to describe. > * * * * * *
- - ... *ſ-, * ,
She fancied, however, that if her father
even should consentſto it, she could not,
with propriety, at so early a period of her
life as the present, undertake the duties
of a wife—the important duties attached
to a character so sacred in the eye of every
divine and human law; but the thought
of being at a future day the beloved wife,
of Theodore De Willenberg was all of
happiness she was now capable of enjoy
Ing. . ; : . . . . . . . . : I
. . . They
166 DE WILLENBERG.
They found dame Gertrude, surrounded
by a party of her neighbours, all gossiping
forth their lamentations, sincere and other
wise, for the death of “poor Billy.”
The first sentence that struck our hero
ine's ears on entering, was a panegyric on
the bravery and the personal beauty of
De Willenberg; it was uttered by a spruce
young woman, who had, by the will of
fate, married a man old enough to be at
least her father. She now very good-na
turedly wished him far under ground, and
herself a lady, for the young cavalier's
sake; “ for fortunate,” she added, “will
be the woman who gets him.”
“Fortunate indeed!” thought Victoria.
Her eye just then encountered a signifi
cant glance from her aunt, which told her,
as plainly as looks could tell her, that she
was to be that fortunate woman. She
immediately comprehended it, and a mo-'
mentary blush betrayed that she did.
* , i. On
DE WILLENBERG. 167
On perceiving “the great ladies from
the castle,” this host of chatterers quickly
arose, and made their obeisance. An ex
traordinary phenomenon ensued, for al
though they were all women, they were all
instantly as silent as the grave. The af.
fectionate wife, who had so charitably
wished her husband in a better world,
along with “poor Bill,” not feeling quite
comfortable in the idea of having been
overheard by the ladies, made a motion,
in dumb show, to depart, which her sister
parrots understanding, she moved off, fol
lowed by the whole train, who had no
sooner cleared the threshold of the door,
than, as if simultaneously bent on requit
ing themselves for the agony of a mo
ment's silence, they broke forth, one and
all, into a loud and confused jargon of ex
clamations, questions, answers, and conjec
tures, as to the most probable cause of
such grand folks coming to the poor abode
of Gertrude, who, in the meantime, had
ushered her noble visitors into a neat little
room,
168 DE WILLENBERG.
room, where, in all the bigoted solemnity
of the Catholic ritual, the corpse of her
child lay, until the coffin should arrive to
bear it to the last receptacle of mortality.
Having carefully wiped two of her best
chairs, she begged they would be seated;
and as she fixed her eyes on the colourless
face of her boy, they again filled with
tears. Not satisfied with the innumerable
encomiums her ever-talking neighbours.
had been lavishing on Theodore for the
last two hours, with all the rapidity their
tongues were capable of, she began the
subject afresh, and seemed as little afraid
as ever the worthy Marguerite was that
she might tire her auditors.
They were at length obliged to inter
rupt her, and having satisfactorily arranged
the business upon which they came, they
again bent their steps homeward.
-
* > . . -
. . . . ." . .
Theodore, had slept soundly for two or
-, * : three
~ IDE WILLENBERG. 169
three hours, and for fear of disturbing him,
the count and Henri had softly quitted
his chamber. He awoke much refreshed,
and glad to find himself alone, that he
might give way to the train of reflections
that crowded on his mind, and which the
last two days gave ample subjects for.
From his earliest infancy he remember
ed that he had ever been a favourite with
the count Herman, who, in various ways,
had unequivocally manifested his partiali
ty; but his deportment towards him had
lately been so kind, so friendly, so like.
that of an affectionate parent, that he
sometimes could not help supposing he
felt more than an ordinary interest in
every thing that concerned him. This
idea the late occurrence had tended to con
firm, several expressions having escaped
his lordship, indicating some plan with
regard to him, which he had not yet made
known; that something relating to him
was in contemplation, he was almost sure
- VOL. I. I - of;
170. DE WILLENBERG.
of; but the uncertainty as to what it might
be was often painful to him, and he wish
ed, though he did not venture, to interro
gate the count, who, had he been as in
different about him as a common acquaint
ance, Theodore would not have experi
enced any of the uneasiness he did.
He sometimes thought it was his pro
motion his benefactor had in view, that
he meant, by his interest, to raise him to
a higher post in the army; but there was
another, an infinitely-sweeter hope that
occasionally took possession of him, and
one which he could not easily dismiss; for
it was one that now, in particular, seemed
not only his possible, but probable actu
ator. Of Victoria's sentiments there was
no room for a doubt—that she loved him
was unquestionable. Yes, he was now
convinced, as far as every thing short of
an actual confession from her own lips
could convince him, that Victoria, the
beautiful Victoria, who had beheld at her
feet
DE WILLENBERG, 171
feet crowds of illustrious suitors, with all
of rank and riches to recommend them,
had indeed given the preference to him,
untitled, unfortuned, and abandoned by
his father, as he seemed to be. -
With all his previous conscientious ar
guments, all his but half-formed wishes to
be assured of this, still was it to his heart
joy unspeakable, and for a long time he
lay unable to think of any thing else.
Before this delightful conviction all his
scruples vanished; of his own passion,
deeming it hopeless, he had determined.
not to let the slightest hint escape him—
to preserve it inviolably a secret. He had
intended rather to avoid than to seek a
knowledge of the like from Vietoria; but
how soon were all those determinations
overthrown they were as “ the baseless
fabric of a vision,” and his newly-raised
hopes “left not a wreck behind.”
His hopes were indeed suddenly rege
I 2 nerated,
172 DE WILLENBERG.
nerated, raised to the highest pitch; the
brightest prospects opened to his vivid
imagination, for he had fixed, in his own
mind, that the object the count had in
view could be nothing else than uniting
him to his daughter. Circumstances were
decidedly in favour of this opinion, for
all the inmates of the castle now treated
him with even more attention and respect
than hitherto; and instead of regretting
his having unwarily betrayed his attach
ment, he a thousand times blessed his lit
tle friend Henri for having been the occa
sion of it.
Wrapt in these blissful visions, he gave
full scope to the scenes of happiness his
fancy drew; and now that he had soared
into the regions of hope, he found them
almost without end, and without alloy;
every thing he wished for appeared proba-.
ble, and easy of accomplishment. His
father had sent him from him for a while
as a punishment his disobedience perhaps
deserved;
DE WILLENBERG. 173
deserved; but surely, surely he had not
banished him for ever—had not discarded
him from his heart—he had not ruthlessly
torn the tender and sacred ties by which
nature had joined them. No, no, he pos
sessed most of the failings of mortals—he
was capricious, irritable, and resentful, but
his bosom was not robbed of humanity—
he was not such a monster as wantonly to
desert for ever the child he had given
birth to.
Such was his opinion of his father; he
deemed the threat of disinheriting him
merely the impulse of an angry moment,
to alarm him, and trusted he had not
really put it into execution; but he look
ed forward with expectation to the pos
session of the fortune he was born to,
merely because it might serve to render
him more worthy ofVictoria; he reckon
ed, with almost perfect certainty, on his
father's consent to his marriage, hoping
that ambition would stimulate him, if
I 3 nothing
174 IDE WILLENBERG.
nothing else could; and he trusted that a
match, in every way so eligible and ad
vantageous, would be the means of restor
ing him entirely to his favour.
In these waking dreams of bliss and
happy anticipation he continued to in
dulge, until the return of her whose im
age, like his guardian angel, had, through
those dreams, been hovering over him.
This delicious reverie was interrupted
by the entrance ofHenri, who now thought
it full time to come and see if he were
awake, and ask him how he felt himself.
—“Oh, I have been wishing so to come
and sit and talk to you,” cried he, running
over to the bedside, “but you were in so
sweet a sleep, that I would not have dis
turbed you for the world, nor my good
uncle neither; and now I know you are
better, for you look so handsome, and
your cheeks are getting so rosy.”
“I think your cousin Victoria was right,
when
IDE WILLENEERG. 175
when she called you a flatterer,” said De
Willenberg.
“Now I will go this instant, and bring
her and my mamma here, for I know they
are both longing to see you, and you shall
hear that she will repeat your own very
words, “ that I have told the truth.” .
“Then they are come back from their
walk, and how did they leave the poor
child?” asked Theodore, not being yet
, informed of his death.
“ Indeed,” replied Henri, “I cannot
tell you how very sad they looked when
they came im, and told uncle they had
seen the poor little boy prepared to be
put in his coffin. I thought they would
have burst into tears.”
De Willenberg heard this intelligence
with evident grief and concern, but guess
ing the motive from which it had been
kept from him so long, his gratitude made
him appear much less affected than he
-really was, when, ushered in by Henri,
- I 4 his
176 DE WILLENBERG.
his promised visitors entered his apart--
ment.
On quitting his patient, the count had
retired to the privacy of his library, to
read over some letters, at his leisure, which
he had that morning received, and one in
particular from M. De Willenberg. His
intentions relative to Theodore were ex
actly what the latter had been conjectur
ing, and l:e had indeed in view for him
an event of no less consequence than his
marriage with Victoria—an event that he
had for some years past secretly contem
plated, and which he now anxiously wished
to bring about.
Count Herman was by no means the
character which the appellation of “a man
of the world” generally conveys an idea
of; every duty he owed to himself, as a
man and as a father, he strictly fulfilled;
his bosom was the seat of virtues the most
exalted, and sentiments the most rigor
OUIS
DE WILLENBERG. 177
ous to vice; all the sociable and amiable
feelings of the good man, the affectionate
father, and the sincere friend, were there
centered, and there a principle of selfish
ness or illiberality was not to be found.
His partiality to Theodore originated
in his infantile endearments, and as time
rolled on, it was strengthened by the
similarity of their dispositions. The birth
of a son had never been granted to his
wishes, often as he had sighed for one,
and such a one as Theodore. The death
of his beloved wife put a period to his
lingering hopes; for, as he could never
love, he had wisely resolved never to
marry another; but a consolation yet re
mained to him—in witnessing the attach
ment of De Willenberg and Victoria, he
formed the design of crowning their love,
should it stand the test of time and ab
sence, by an union, which would at once
give him the son he so desired, and con
I 5 tribute
178 IDE WILLENBERG.
tribute to the advantage and happiness of
Theodore.
He had formerly been on terms of in
timacy with the elder De Willenberg,
who, having latterly grown into repulsive
habits of moroseness and avarice, with all
the characteristics of a heart not the best,
the count, disgusted, weaned himself, by
degrees, from his society, and at length
gave up visiting him altogether; he was
acquainted with the whole of his unreason
able conduct to his son, and well knowing
his disposition, he did not entertain a hope
that the will he had made, so hostile to
him, would ever be repealed, though, for
various reasons, he deemed it prudent to
keep that opinion to himself, or at least
not to put Theodore's happy visions to
flight by revealing it to him.
The deserted state of the latter render
ed him, if possible, still dearer to him, but,
too
IDE WILLENRF.R.G. 179
too noble-minded to make a boast of his
friendship by words, none ever knew its
extent till manifested by his actions, and
of course none knew exactly what he had
planned for Theodore.
The splendid offers of marriage that
had been made to his daughter had grati
fied the vanity of a fond parent, but they
had never led captive his better reason,
excited ambition, or induced him, for a
moment, to think seriously of sacrificing
happiness to the glitter of nominal ag
grandizement, or the temptations of riches.
Dearer, far dearer to him, were the com
fort and felicity of his child, which he
knew no alliance that had yet offered
would promote, and for this reason he
sanctioned and approved of her having
rejected them.
How unlike was he in this respect to
our modern philosophers of the present
day, who, with more pretensions, and fewer
1.6 - real
I80 EE WILLENBERG.
real claims, to sense and reason, most pru
dently content themselves in their alli
ances, for the loss of every domestic happi
ness, and not unfrequently virtue, in the
possession of titled grandeur, and the ac
quisition of the idol of their vain, ava
ricious, and mercenary hearts— wealth !
But woe to the consciences, if such indeed
they have, of those who basely barter thus
all the real joys of human existenceſ
Such a thought had never tainted the
conscience of count Herman; a great mind
was, in his opinion, what made man truly
noble; virtuous and amiable principles,
and talents well directed, truly rich; and
guided thus in selecting a husband for his
daughter, Theodore De Willenberg was
the one on whom his choice fell.
Previous, however, to his doing any
thing decisive, he thought it proper to
apprise his father, not from a belief that . .
he could interest him much in his son's
behalf,
DE WILLENBERG. 181
behalf, or induce him to cancel a single
line of his will, but because he deemed ºf
a mark of respect due to him as a pa
rent, however unworthy he might other
wise be.
The reply he received was just such a
one as he expected—cold, formal, and re
served, but evincing throughout a steady
and determinate adherence to the contents
of his will, which he vowed no earthly pow
er should ever lead him to alter. The pros
pect of his son's marriage he treated with
almost perfect indifference, saying he was
at liberty to marry when and whom he
pleased, but must never expect his con
gratulations, or any assistance whatever
from him, beyond the trifling sum already
allowed him; and concluding with a re
quest that he might never be addressed on
the subject again. -
This unfeeling composition more than
ever disgusted the count against its au
- - thor,
182 IDE WILLENBERG.
-
thor, but did not, for an instant, influence
his determinations. He knew the grief
and distress it would occasion to Theo
dore, should it, by chance, ever meet his
eye, or a word of what it contained reach
Ahis ear; and resolved to consign it to
oblivion, he flung it into a large blazing
fire, with all the indignation it deserved.
CHAP
DE WILLENBERG. 183
CHAPTER VI.
-->4°-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º
Surely paradise is round me,
And every sense is full of thy perfection;
To hear thee speak might calm a madman's frenzy,
Till by attention he forgot his sorrows. Orwar.
The attentions of his friends, and their
cheerful society, shortly restored De Wil
lenberg to his usual health and spirits.
One of his first visits on going out, was to
the cottage of his humble acquaintances,
Dominique and his wife; the joy of the
latter at seeing him almost amounted to
ecstacy; but when he stretched forth his
hand, and cordially took hers, it required
mo more to rouse into full action all the
powers of her tongue. She had, in her
turn, almost tendered her lips to salute
him—she blessed him over and over again,
and
184 DE WILLENBERG.
and protested he was now more than ever
like her “poor dear beautiful Jaques!”
During his absence, Victoria employed
herself in finishing the picture, according
to her design; she did so most completely
to her satisfaction; it seemed to surpass all
her former efforts, for never with any work
of art had she taken so much pains before;
and when it had received the last admir
able touch of her brush, she hung it in
the very spot in her boudoir that madame
Bertonville had allotted to it.
In the meantime her aunt was closeted
with count Herman, with whom she had
sought a private interview, for the purpose
of informing him of her conversation with
our heroine, and urging him to bring mat
ters to a more determinate state. To her
surprise, she found him quite prepared to
hear all she had to say on the subject, and
ready to coincide in all her proposals—a
circumstance she did not fail to take ad
vantage
DE WILLENIBERG. 185
vantage of She imparted unreservedly
all that had passed between her and Vic
toria; and he in return opened his mind
to her. He told her he had long pro
jected the match; and should he find, on
conferring with the parties concerned, that
appearances had not deceived him, it should
certainly take place. He readily guessed
the motives of delicacy that had kept
Theodore so long silent on the occasion,
and could not but admire his magnanimi
ty.—“It deserved,” he said, “a noble re
ward, and such it should have.”—M. De
Willenberg had unnaturally cast him off,
but he would adopt him, and to those two
beloved children leave the vast fortune
he had honourably accumulated through
the course of a long and well-spent life, so
that he deemed it perfectly immaterial
whether chance might or might not ever
alter the will in his favour. It was his
wish that Theodore should be kept whol
ly ignorant of his cruel father's determina
tions, fearing that the knowledge of them
would
*
186 I)E WII,I,ENBERG.
would induce him to form some pretext
for rejecting even the woman he loved,
rather than accept her, and be in his own
opinion an unsuitable match for her—so
honourable and sensitive were his feelings.
In this the countess concurred; and at her
suggestion, he resolved to break the mat
ter to the lovers in a few days.
Our heroine received the first summons
to her father's library, for a purpose her
fluttering heart anticipated—there was an
embarrassment in her manner as she en
tered, that betrayed that anticipation. The
count perceived it; he took her hand af.
fectionately, and seated her beside him,
and then gently told her for what he had
sent for her, entreating that she would
answer him with her accustomed candour.
Histones were kind and tender, yet firm
and impressive. He briefly stated his
observation of her attachment, adding,
what she had hardly expected, that it was
an attachment he highly approved of; he
painted
DE WILLENBERG. 187
painted Theodore's recommendations in
words of almost as high colouring as her
own mind had done; but he bade her ex
amine well her heart, and not mistake an
enthusiastic admiration of those qualities,
for the genuine affection she ought to feel
for the man he wished to make the com
panion of her future days. Esteem, he
said, was the solid foundation of the beauti
ful superstructure—love; without which,
though it may for a while remain, yet
must it, like a house built upon sand,
eventually totter and fall; he knew how
many ills, how many grievous ills, arise
from hastily-formed marriages, and cau
tioned her against too quickly deciding.
But that injunction was unnecessary; she
had scrutinized her heart, and in all its
various windings still did the image of
Theodoreeverywhere present itself,equally
amiable and beloved. Convinced of his
worthiness, and anxious, if a shadow of
doubt remained on her father's mind, to
banish it thence as quickly as possible;
encouraged
188 DE WILLENBERG.
encouraged too by the winning cordiality
of his manner, she was indeed as ingenuous
as he wished her to be; she avowed her
partiality to De Willenberg from its very
commencement, through all its gradations,
and freely confessed that she sincerely loved
him. This was precisely what the count
wished; he had now fully assured himself
of all that it was necessary to be assured
of on the subject, and it only remained to
apprise him, who was the topic of their
conversation, of the happiness that awaited
him.
Madame Bertonville, delighted at the
prospect of having her long-indulged wish
thus accomplished, retired with her niece
to her apartment, for there was yet one
point on which she wished to speak to her.
The duke of Silesia's two last visits to
the castle had given rise to different con
jectures in all their minds; butthe countess,
in particular, guessed, and with a tolerable
share
DE WILLENBERG. 189
share of truth, that it was not altogether a
business of mere politesse on which he
came, and with such a conviction, she be
came, more than the others, an unobserv
ed observer. His attentions to Victoria,
though not generally noticed by the rest,
did not escape her acute observation,
neither did the feelings that prompted
them; and though his assumed liveliness,
and apparent kindness, had concealed from
her view his less amiable qualities; though
she had found him a polished, conversable,
and agreeable companion, still he was far
from being such a man as she wished to
make a serious impression on her niece.
That he had not made such, was sufficient
ly obvious; but that was not enough ;
she wished her to be strictly guarded in
her deportment to him—a precaution now
more than ever necessary; not that she
entertained a doubt of Victoria's prudence,
but she knew that Leopold ardently ad
mired her, and would probably seize the
most trifling circumstance from which he
- might
190 DE WILLENBERG.
might delude himself with the flattering
hope of a return of that admiration. She
was not blind to his jealousy of Theodore;
and it occurred to her, that he would not
scruple to gratify his own vanity at the
expence, and to the annoyance, of his more
fortunate rival, which she could neither
expect nor wish that the latter should
tamely bear.
Victoria promised her aunt, that she
would faithfully attend to this, her discreet
admonition; at the same time so to regu
late her conduct, as not to prejudice her
father against the duke, by any appearance
of particular reserve.
Some days elapsed afterwards ere the
count had an opportunity of communi
cating to Theodore what had passed, and
the duke had paid them another visit. To
-superficial observers Leopold was often
uncommonly pleasing and attractive; and
the count, who never wished to look at
the
I)E WILLENBERG, 191
the dark side of a picture, while there was
a single charm on the light, worthy of his
notice, was certainly prepossessed in his
favour. He had never for a moment sus
pected him to be otherwise than De Wil
lenberg's sincere friend, and as such, he
concluded that the intelligence of any
thing conducive to his advantage would
be highly agreeable to him; judging thus,
he had determined to acquaint him with
all that was about to take place, and ac
cordingly sought a proper time for doing so.
A dreadful anticipation of what he was
about to hear, so much flurried the duke
at first, that he narrowly escaped suspicion;
but, deeply practised in dissimulation, he
soon assumed an air of composure, and
listened with apparent interest—at least
with that sort of interest a person feels in
learning the particulars of any thing he is
resolved to counteract.
If the count had a weakness, it was the
- - evident
192 DE WILLENBERG,
evident delight he experienced in praising,
and hearing praised, his idolized daughter;
her loveliness and her merits were ever his
most favourite topics; and his indulgence
of them now for some time kept his audi
tor in a state of agonizing suspense, half
believing that his fears relative to Theodore
Were erroneOuS.
But through this uncertainty at length
fell the blow, like a storm at first faintly
seen gathering through the darkening
clouds, and then suddenly bursting over
us with tremendous violence. Leopold
was not altogether prepared for it, but its
effect was not visible to the count, who
went on to state all he had done and in
tended still to do. The duke heard him
to the end without interrupting him.
This would have been a deathblow to the
hopes of any body less a Machiavel than
himself; but when the first shock was
over, he quickly became collected, and
made
* DE WILLENBERG. 193
made up his mind as to how he should
proceed. .
He had first had it in contemplation to
overthrow his rival's promised good for
tune at once, by artful and cautious in
sinuations of his being secretly attached to
another; but, on consideration, he aban
doned this scheme for a yet deeper, and,
he hoped, a safer one.
Fearful ofexciting mistrustin the count,
and so defeating his object, policy now led.
him into a different track; and instead of
offering any argument against it, he ap
plauded his lordship's generosity, and de-,
clared he longed to congratulate his friend
on the bliss of being the husband of lady,
Victoria.
It was obvious to De Willenberg, that -
count Herman had something on his mind.
which he wished to impart to him—some
thing, if he mightjudge from appearances, .
VOL. I. K that
w
194 DE WILLENBERG.
that was of no unpleasant nature. His
bosomfilled with delightful expectations—
he longed for an opportunity to be inform
ed of it, which shortly occurred, and which
the other as eagerly embraced.
At this period he had been rather more
than a month at the castle, and its inmates
became every day more and more attached
to him. Its lord already regarded him,
and almost addressed him, as a son ; and
the domestics, like all others of that class,
not failing to repeat, in their humbler cir
cles, all they heard and saw in the higher
ones in the drawing-room, it was soon pre
dicted amongst them, that the handsome
young visitor would be one of the future
owners of their present stately abode.
Madame Bertonville had accustomed
herself to the delightful and salutary re
creation of a ramble before breakfast, in
the adjacent plantationsand tastefully-laid
out grounds about the castle, in which De
Willenberg
IDE WILLENBERG. 195
Willenberg and our herione generally ac
companied her.
They had returned one morning earlier
than usual; and the ladies having retired
to their apartments, to adjust themselves
for breakfast, left his lordship and Theo
dore in the room by themselves, Henri
being yet mounted, and prancing through
the lawn, on a little pony, presented to
him by his uncle.
“My dear boy, you look a perfect pic
ture of health and cheerfulness this morn
ing,” observed the count, gazing with
pleasure on Theodore's animated counte
inance, to which cheerfulness and exercise
had indeed given an unusually-fine colour;
“one might suppose you hadbeen rambling
through the Elysian fields, instead of
mine, or that a refreshing dive into one of
the fabled fountains had made you look
so well; come, now, confess that you have
been invoking the aid of some rural deity
K 2 hereabouts;”
196 DE willENBERG.
-
hereabouts;” and a smile gave a playful
archness to his words.
“I have certainly been conversing with
them, my lord; in such society could I
feel otherwise than happy—and happy,
could I look otherwise than well ?”
“May you long continue to look and
feel so, my dear young friend!” aspirated
the count, dismissing at once the badinage
with which he had commenced.
“I am confident I shall, as long as I
remain here; if kindness, hospitality, and
friendship, could not make me look well
and happy, I wonder what could?”
“You may talk of kindness and hospi
tality, if you please; they are what any
guest of mine would naturally expect and
demand; but, Theodore, you have yet
to learn what my friendship is, and its ex
tent.” -
A sensation, such as he had never felt
before, thrilled through De Willenberg's
agitated frame—the whole delightful truth
WaS
DE WILLENBERG. 197
was now about to flash upon him with al
most overpowering brightness—he could
hardly support himself on his chair—it was
not exactly a pleasurable emotion that he
experienced, for excessive joy is often more
painful than excessive grief—without
seeming to intend it, he pressed his hand
upon his left side, endeavouring to con
trol the unbridled rapidity with which
his heart beat, and awaited the rest in si
lence. -
“Theodore, a friend is not always the
one who with smiling looks throws open
his doors to receive you—who entertains
you at his table with luxuries, with su
perfluities, and with all the external graces
of politeness; many there are who will do
this, whose hearts are good and kind, as
far as their passive virtues can make them
so, yet know no more of friendship than
the name—a name as often misapplied as
beauty to a painted woman. A friend
should feel an interest in your happiness
- K 3 and
198 DE WILLENBERG.
and welfare; and such do you behold in
the one who now addresses you. Yes!
these have been the objects of my thoughts;
I will be your friend—your father!"
“My more than father!” exclaimed
Theodore with energy, seizing the count's
hand, and grasping it with more than filial
affection; “ have not your actions, your
very looks, already, in a thousand various
ways spoken to me the sweet, sweet lan
guage offriendship?—yes, to my heart they
spoke it, and that heart glows with grati
tude and attachment to you. Oh! never
till now have I felt half so acutely the
cruelty, the injustice of the man who gave
me being—a father must I call him 2–
he my father!—did he not rise up in open
rebellion against nature's self?—did he not,
with savage force, tear asunder the sacred
ties that united a parent to his child, and
fling me from him, as he would have done
some noisome weed, whose baleful exhala
tions sent forth death on every side?—did
he not do all this, while you—you on
- whom
DE WILLENBERG. 199
whom I had no claim, tendered to me
your home—your friendship? Oh, my
lord my lord! of all—all, will my mind
ever retain the impression more faithfully
than marble does from the sculptor's
steel—never can I forget it!”
A tear forced its way down his cheek,
but it was a tear that did honour to his
heart; and the count, as it fell on his hand,
was almost subdued to tears also.
“Dear, dear Theodore, be composed,”
said he, trying to force a cheering smile
over his features, “you have much more
to hear—we will not now talk of your
father's cruelty—let us yet hope the best
as far as regards him—listen at present to
what relates to me, and listen with the
same attention you would hear me with,
were you already my son.”
The little adverb, “already,” told him
all, but he remained silent.
- K 4 “Though
-
200 IDE WILLENBERG.
º
“Though I wished to keep from your
knowledge, until now, the ultimate object.
I have in view, spite of that wish, my
affection for you must frequently have
evinced itself, yet was I repaid in know
ing it to be reciprocal. Now, Theodore,
by that friendship and affection I charge
you to deal candidly with me—answer
my question, as if the continuance of all
you value on earth depended on your
frankness. Has your bosom at any time
felt a warmer sentiment than what it feels
for me? To be more explicit—Have you
ever felt, what you cannot feel for man,
the yearnings of that passion with which
we are all more or less inspired at some
part of our lives—love?—Has any indi
vidual woman, handsome, amiable, and
deserving, ever given a new turn to your
feelings, or engaged your thoughts, your
attention, and your admiration, more than
the rest of her sex 2"
De Willenberg saw plainly what he
- aimed
DE WILLENBERG. 201
aimed at, yet his natural diffidenceforsook
him not—“My lord!” he faltered, “my
friend! (and that comprises all that man
can be to man) you have enjoined me to
be candid—I will be so—candour may
sometimes be carried too far—should you
think so, oh! pity, but do not, do not con
demn me!—yes, count, there is one wo
man, the fairest, the most adorable of her
sex!—one whom my heart and soul have
dared to love—whose image is indelibly
stamped here"—(laying his hand on his
bosom)—“forgive my presumption if I
venture to name her—that woman is your
daughter, the lady Victoria!”
“Heaven be praised for this!” ejacu
lated the count; “all my earthly hopes are
realized at last—yes! ye are worthy of
each other, and each other ye shall have—
a few weeks more, and ye shall be united
for ever!” - -
“How ! what say you, my lord?" de
manded Theodore, in a tone of wild joy:
and agitation; and again snatching the
K 5 - hand
202 DE WILLENBERG,
handhe had let drop—“unite the rich and
lovely heiress of your noble house, to the
poor, discarded, isolated De Willenberg:
can you be in earnest?”
“Have I given you cause to think me
otherwise?” asked the count, with mo
mentary displeasure.
“Never, my lord, never ! you have al
ways—”
“Stay this impetuosity, and listen fur
ther. Though your father has for a while
dismissed you from him (say discarded, if
you will), I have not—I will wholly sup
ply his place to you, until the seeds of
natural affection shall again germinate in
his breast; and when they do, when his
paternal arms shall again open to embrace
you, still shall I preserve my claim to your
love—still shall I be your father also. Can
you now say you are isolated?—no, no,
Theodore, I know your heart is warm and
sincere; therefore speak the language of
sincerity—tell me at once that heart ac
knowledges all I have said.” -
“It
DE WILLENBERG. 203
“It does—it does indeed most proudly
acknowledge it; and nought but its senti
ments shall ever pass my lips.”
“You are not poor, Theodore, for you
possess those qualities that all the golden
treasures of the opulent cannot purchase—
nay, that blush shall not check me, for I
too am sincere; and if such possessions
content you not, your father and I have
those that will. When you become the
husband of my Victoria, who but your
selves shall have a right to share my
wealth?—none—will you not then be rich?
will you not have all that virtuous hearts
ean wish for, or the forms of this world
require?”
“Alf! all, in having her I love!—gold
may minister to our worldly wants, but .
she is the treasure that, next to Heaven,
my soul shall prize—my whole heart shall
Rove.”
Approaching footsteps were now heard
outside. De Willenberg had dropped
K 6 OIn
204 DE WILLENBERG.
-
on one knee, and pressed the count's hand
fervently to his lips.
“Arise, my son, for by that endearing
appellation I will address you; at present
I do not wish the subject of our conference
to be known. Victoria herself is coming,
and though to know it would gratify—
would rejoice my child, still would it at
this time embarrass her. I have told her
mine, and heard her sentiments on the oc
casion already; at a proper opportunity I
will tell her the rest.” -
Our heroine and her aunt now entered,
followed by Henri, who, bouncing to the
count's lap, told him—“ he was very angry
with him for not having, come to see how
well he managed his pony;” and turning
to his mother, added—“he was very angry
with her also, for taking away cousin Vic
toria and Theodore into the plantation,
instead of coming to admire his beautiful
favourite.”
This
DE WILLENBERG. 205s
This in a great measure took their im
mediate attention from De Willenberg, so
that whatever they might think had been
passing, their thoughts at least did not
betray themselves.
He was, however, not quite so much
on his guard; elated and joyful, his cor
poreal functions seemed under the action
of a being entirely new, and his buoyant
spirits rose to such a pitch, that Victoria,
when she withdrew with her aunt, to read
in her boudoir, could not help observing—
“how uncommonly lively and entertain
ing he was that morning, and how very
well he looked P’ -
“He looks better and happier than I
have ever seen him before, and I dare say
is so in reality,” replied the countess, with
some emphasis. She had, in truth, soon
shrewdly suspected what had occupied her.
brother and De Willenberg; and so in
genious is suspicion in shewing itself in
some shape or another, that Victoria im-,
- mediately
|
206 DE WILLENBERG.
mediately caught it from this significant
expression.
Another interview with her father very
soon followed. The rein was completely
removed from the impatient tongues of
attached domestics and sincere friends.
Theodore was now our heroine's acknow
ledged lover, and even this happy pair
seemed scarcely more happy than those
around them.
Miss Barbara Chaterboix, in particular,
alias Chatterbox, (into which her witty
fellow-servants thought proper to translate
her name, and not inaptly), femme de cham
bre to lady Victoria, was as loud and vo
ciferous in her expressions of joy at the
idea of a marriage in the family, as the
respect she owed her young lady per
mitted. She was a native of France, a
smart, smirking lass of four-and-twenty,
possessing all the characteristics, divested
, of their refinements, of her fair country
- WQIſlen.
DE, WILLENBERG. 207
women. She talked incessantly, and, to
an unconquerable aversion to keeping a
secret, and a propensity to repeat all she
heard said by others, she added a happy
knack of embellishing it with many pretty
little fictions of her own. Some old book
she had contrived to read, the only book
she could ever manage, by dint of hard
labour and slow spelling, to get through,
had furnished her otherwise vacant and
frivolous mind with such an abundant
store of proverbs and trite similes, that,
as if endeavouring to exhaust the fund of
them she had laid in, she usually contrived
to introduce a long string of them, appro
priate or not, to every body she spoke to,
not even excepting her young lady. She
gloried in being admired by the other sex,
and flirted with them as often as she had
an opportunity. Amongst other amiable
foibles with which nature had gifted her,
was a wish to distinguish herself, if possi
ble, from the ignorant class of people
ycleped servants, of which, unluckily, she
WàS
208 DE WILLENBERG,
was herself one, by a praise-worthy affec
tation of the dignity, the manners, and
the language of her superiors; in this last
acquirement, however, she failed most la
mentably. Any thing in the dictionary
beyond common phraseology, seemed never
intended for her use; but, with her wonted
promptitude and good sense, if she could
not remember the fine words she heard her
lord and lady make use of, she never fail
ed to substitute some others equally high
sounding, though unfortunately far diffe
rent in their meaning. This ludicrous, but,
in her opinion, highly-edifying talent, her
fellow-domestics most assiduously encou
raged; not indeed with the laudable desire
of being edified, but the mischievous one
of being entertained at the expence of poor
Barbara, whose blunders and absurdities
afforded them ample subjects in her ab
sence for many a hearty laugh.
One, however, amongst them, philoso
pher-like, who knew how to make due.
- * allowances
IDE WILLENBERG. 209
allowances for the follies of womankind,
not only at such times took her part, but
was, to all intents and purposes, her de
voted admirer. This was no other than
Theodore's servant, Conrad, whom we
have before had occasion to notice; and
Conrad soon found that his manly person
and handsome features had captivated the
affections of the love-sick Barbara, who,
now that her young lady was apparently
on the eve of matrimony, looking into her
list of outlandish phrases and undivulged
secrets (pertaining to herself), and finding
that she had actually passed her twenty
fourth year, thought it full time, with
Heaven's will and Conrad's, to enter that
blessed state herself, of which she took
care to remind him. -
The count's kindness and generosity
did indeed make a sensible impression on
De Willenberg, whose natural partiality
to him now grew into all the fondness and
affection of a son.
In
210 DE WILLENBERG.
In this plenitude of joy, his father's se
verity and injustice almost vanished from
his mind; and what at any other time he
would have shrunk from, he now resolved
on doing, namely, writing to that father,
to inform him and his beloved mother of
his intended marriage, and once more im
plore his forgiveness and his blessing.
He deemed it unnecessary to consult
the count on the subject, because, notwith
standing all his wrongs, he still held it one
of a child's first duties to reverence the
parent from whom he sprung; and influ
enced by this amiable sentiment, he com
posed and quickly sent off his letter to its
destination.
CHAP
DE WILLENBERG. 2II
CHAPTER VII.
*************
Ah, baleful gift of angry Heaven,
When to the feeling wretch is given
A soul alive to joy
Joys fly with every hour away,
And leave the unguarded heart a prey
To cares that peace destroy. GREville.
º
ANOTHER week passed over, and still be
held our little party at the castle as happy
as the circumstances we have related could
make them. Theodore and Victoria seem.
ed indeed the happiest of human beings;
but our sublunary joys once arrived at
their acme, when we have clambered the
pleasing height, and through flowery paths
reached its summit, alas! what a gloomy
reverse often is the scene we contemplate
below, and which we are fated to descend!
Here
212 IDE WILLENBERG.
Here was this picture sadly exemplified, for
their happiness was too great to be of long
duration.
They were all assembled round the
breakfast-table one morning, when a letter,
directed to De Willenberg, was handed to
him by a servant. A prophetic cloud
spread over his countenance, as a large
black seal, and a superscription he too well
knew, met his eye, which, rolling fright
fully, ran over its contents, when he had,
amidst innumerable and dreadful conjec
tures, torn it open. A deathlike hue
blanched his cheeks; tears sent forth by
mental agony trickled over them; his
whole frame trembled; he attempted to
speak, but the words died away unarticu
lated; his sight grew dizzy, and with diffi
culty he prevented himself from falling.
Consternation filled all present; in vain
they inquired the terrible cause of his agi
tation, and sought to read the letter.
As
DE WILLENBERG. 213
As if the very sight of it was too much
to trust them with, he quickly put it in
his pocket. At length groaning out—
“I am undone " he started from his chair,
and rushed out of the room.
All their suppositions were vague and
unsatisfactory; but the count, alarmed and
hurried on by some impulses that he did
not explain, immediately rose from the
table, and followed him to his apartment,
the door of which being ajar, he could see
him, unobserved, before he reached it.
At the first glimpse he caught of him, he
paused, from Theodore's now increased -
and violent agitation, hesitating whether
to enter, as it occurred to him that his
presence might still more distress him, so
that he resolved to stay where he was, to
ascertain, if possible, by what might drop
from him, the purport of this mysterious
letter. -
Let it not be imagined that idle or un
manly
214 DE WILLENBERG.
manly curiosity prompted him; his wish
to be fully acquainted with an affair that
so deeply and seriously affected him—him
on whom he was so soon to bestow a fa
ther's blessing, was perfectly natural, and
it was such as any other parent, possessing
equal affection for his child, would have
done.
With almost the frightful air of insanity,
De Willenberg walked up and down the
room. He held the open letter in his
hand; sometimes fixing on it a vacant
gaze of incredulity, then suddenly dashing
it from his eyes, as if the conviction of some
horrible truth rushed upon his mind—
“Who—who can have done this?” he
franticly cried.—“What demon can thus
have worked my ruin? what horrid, hor
rid mystery is all this? I wrote not
such—my pen never spoke reproof to him
—I arraigned him not. Oh, Heavens !
villainy, treachery most foul, has been at
work against me, blighting my hopes
of
DE WILLENBERG. 215
of happiness—blighting, said I?—it has
overthrown, crushed, blasted them for
ever ! Dare I now, a poor mendicant,
when every chance of my father's pardon
is cut off—dare I now think of wedding
the lovely woman, who, unconscious of my
poverty, would, ere long, have accompa
nied me to the altar 2 No, no ; I am, it
is true, a beggar, but not that guilty
wretch . There is a l’ower above that
will avenge my wrongs. Yet why stand
I thus listless and inactive, while mischief
may still be plotting further against me?
why do I not fly to have all explained—to
seek revenge myself?—Yes, yes; I am
now resolved—my plan is arranged, and it
shall be done.”
With a little more composure he reper
used the letter; then opening his bureau,
he took out a sheet of paper, wrote a few
lines, looked over them, and again struck
his forehead with his hand in all the an
guish of despair. As if disapproving of
- * what
216 DE WILLENBERG.
what he had written, he crushed the paper,
and tore it into atoms. He took another
sheet—ran over it with a hurried hand,
then quickly sealed, directed, and put it
in his pocket, evidently intending it for
the post.
Unwilling to put him to additional
pain by asking an explanation, which, if-
given at all, he judged would be reluc
tantly, the count perceiving him move to
wards the door, thought it better to avoid
being seen by him, and hastened back to
the breakfast-room. There he found his
sister and daughter, anxiously awaiting
his return, that they might learn all that
had passed; but the little intelligence he
had to give them, was ill calculated to dis
pel their apprehension.
They waited De Willenberg's coming
a considerable time, but he not making
his appearance, their fears rapidly increased.
66 My
DE WILLENBERG. 217
* My dear brother, had you not better
question him at once upon this sad busi
mess?” said the countess. “Do go to him
again, and I am certain he will confide all
to you.”
“Indeed, Matilda, as he has not volun
tarily made me his confidant, it would be
painful to me, and equally so to him, if I
were to solicit it; therefore do not urge
me,”
“Would to Heaven we could learn
what has thus dreadfully affected him "
ejaculated Victoria; “surely we might be
of use to him—we would at least console
him.” - -
“I will at aſ events try to bring him
back to you,” said the count; “you may
perhaps be able to draw him for a while
from this terrible something that has so
changed him;” and, quitting the room, he
found theobject of his search in the library.
—“Theodore, my dear Theodore,” said
he, taking his hand, “you know not
surely the pain it gives your friends around
vol. I. I. you,
218 DE WII.LENBERG.
you, or you would not thus seclude and
give yourself up to solitude, and this vio
lent, this culpable excess of grief, be the
cause what it may. Let me prevail on
you to moderate it, and accompany me
back to the saloon, where you must be
aware I have left madame Bertonville and
our dear Victoria, in a state of the most
torturing anxiety about you, which your
continued absence every moment aug
ments.”
“Oh, my lord, they are too kind—they
are indeed too kind in feeling anxious
about me. I am now ” He suddenly
checked himself, or all would have been
divulged.—“My lord, solitude is at pre
sent the only palliative my sorrows will
admit of; they are of too sensitive a nature
to bear a remedy less gentle.” Still he
betrayed not his secret; nor did the count
evince a desire to know it, though such a
desire he most earnestly felt.
“If it is your wish to be alone, my be
loved boy, I will leave you for a while ;
- - but
DE willENBERG. 219
but I can by no means suffer you to re
main long so. Promise me that you will
join us in the course of the morning, and
meantime I will order Conrad to prepare
breakfast here for you.”. '
“No, no, my lord, do not trouble him
—do not let the affectionate creature know
what an effect this morning's letter has
had upon me. His efforts at consolation
would be irksome and distressing to me,
without at all alleviating my wretchedness,
and he himself would be miserable at see
ing me thus. I require no breakfast—I
have food here for deep meditation, and
more I could not now digest.”
“Say then you will come to us by-and
by.”
“I will, my lord; in a couple of hours
hence expect me. I shall then be more
tranquil, and reflection will, I hope, have
reconciled me to a misfortune that is now
irremediable. I will bear the blow with
fortitude; but if treachery has dealt it, it
shall not go unpunished.”
L 2 Again
220 IDE WILLENBERG.
Again his feelings were hurrying him
on, but again he bridled them.
“Treachery" echoed the count, thrown
for a moment off his guard by the empha
tic word—“treachery what mean you?”
“Nothing, nothing, count,” replied
Theodore, angry with himself for having
said so much ; but there was more mean
ing in the expression than he durst now
explain; “my tongue is often in a bab
bling humour, and utters strange and in
coherent things, all meaning nothing.”
Propriety forbade another interrogatory;
the count left him to himself, and returned,
sad and dejected, to the saloon.
At the promised hour he emerged from
his seclusion, and found the ladies in the
music-room. Madame Bertonville was
seated at her embroidering frame, and Vic
toria was tormenting herself by making
blunders, and rubbing them out again, in
a landscape,
IDE WILLENBERG. 221
a landscape she had partly sketched on
the preceding day. Never had her pencil
been less skilfully guided than now ; and
while she tried to appear all attention, ne
ver before had her mind played truant so
completely from the occupation of her
hands. She and her aunt rose from their
seats as De Willenberg entered.—“My
dear Theodore,” said the latter, “I re
joice to see you looking something like
yourself again. You cannot think how
much your running away at breakfast
time alarmed us! As to Victoria, she has
really done nothing but mope about ever .
since.” -
“Nay, my good aunt, don't say that.
Did I not, at your own request, read
you the remainder of that vapour-giving
volume—“The Sorrows of Werter?”
“And truly a hopeful way you read it!
even little count Bertonville here smiled
once or twice at your amusing blunders—
Did you not, Henri ?”
- L 3 * Indeed
z
222 DE WILLENBERG.
“Indeed I own I did, mamma; but,
after all, it was not fair to laugh, for I am
sure we were all thinking of Theodore as
well as she.”
“Come, come, Henri, I certainly did
not make such a blunder as to tell you my
thoughts,” said Victoria, colouring deeply.
“You must allow,” said the lively coun
tess, “that he puts the most favourable
construction on the matter.”
“His opinion is always favourable to
me,” observed De Willenberg.
“That is because I like you so much,
and because you are so soon to be my
cousin also.”
“Never, never!" sighed Theodore to
himself, and his heart was ready to burst
with agony. He moved towards the sofa,
and trying to conceal his emotion, took up
a book that lay on it; it was a volume of
Moliere's plays.
“Oh,” said Henri, running over, “that
is the pretty book that made me laugh so
- much
DE WILLENBERG. 223
much yesterday. Do now, Theodore,
read some more of it, and you must laugh
too, for I don't like to see you so very sad.”
He did not recollect how inappropriate
was the task he assigned him; but Theo
dore was one of those amiable beings who
wish not to communicate to others the
infection of sadness, and opening the book,
he endeavoured to command as much
composure as would enable him to read
audibly.
For the first time this favourite genius
of comedy was irksome to him ; in vain
poor Scapin practised all his arch tricks
and knaveries—not a smile did they elicit,
for, seeing Theodore melancholy and ab
stracted, the others were sympatheti
cally so.
... He was somewhat relieved by the en
trance of count Herman, with a packet of
L4 music,
224 DE WILLENBERG.
music, which had just arrived from War.
saw for Victoria.
The count saw by their looks that De
Willenberg had avoided speaking of the
letter, and wishing, ifpossible, to divert his
thoughts from it, he opened the parcel;
and turning over the leaves of several beau
tiful songs, concertos, and sonatas, asked
him if he did not think them well selected?
The latter, who was an enthusiastic lover
of music, and performed on two or three
instruments, divining the count's kind
motive, expressed his admiration of them;
and to cheer his friends, affecting a gaiety
he by no means felt, read over several
bars.
In arranging some of them, Victoria
found a little Italian duetto, which she and
De Willenberg had often practised toge
ther; and placing it on the music-frame
of
DE WILLENBERG. 225.
of the harpsichord—“There, Theodore,”
said she, “is my sweet favourite, with va
riations, and you must positively sing it
with me now. I shall quarrel with you
in good earnest if you are not perfect in it,
and expose you as a most hopeless pupil.”
He smiled faintly as he approached
the instrument where she was seated—
“Sooner than hazard your ladyship's dis
pleasure, I will exert myself.” said he, and
an involuntary sigh declared that to sing
would indeed be an exertion to which he
was now hardly competent.
Through the first few bars, which were
a lively bravura, he acquitted himself with
a tolerably-good grace; but a thrilling ca
dence sinking their voices into a slow and
melancholy measure, his efforts to continue
the feeling and pathos it required, com
pletely failed, his agitation nearly subdued
him, and reddening with confusion, he was
obliged to declare that he could proceed
no farther. º
L5 Pitying,
226 DE WILLENBERG.
z
Pitying, and anxious to relieve him.
from his embarrassment, the count pro
posed an excursion through the grounds,
to view some improvements that had been
lately made, to which all consented; but
exercise had not its accustomed salutary
effect upon De Willenberg—he returned
the same, and withdrew to his apartment,
whence, even more dejected than before,
he rejoined the family at dinner.
Assembling at this meal was, however,
now a mere matter of form, for none felt
inclined to partake of it; and after little
more than tasting it, it was dismissed,
The absence of the ladies, who were gene
to take their afternoon's nap, left Theo
doreagain alone with the count; but both
were as silent as before on the subject of
the letter, and both wished secretly what
they had never wished before—their tete
d-tête at an end.
Victoria
DE WILLENBERG. 227
Victoria appeared to have guessed that
wish, for she soon returned, but unaccom
panied by her aunt. In a few minutes.
afterwards a servant entered, saying ma
dame Bertonville was in the library, and
requested an interview there with the
count, , who, hastening to his sister, left
De Willenberg alone with the very one
he least wished to be left with—Victoria.
A long and painful silence ensued; both
wished to speak, yet each wished the other
to speak first.
Victoria justifiably believed she had a
claim upon the confidence of the man her
father had chosen to be her husband, and
thought that could she once draw it forth,
it would considerably lighten the burden
that so weighed upon his spirits.
With a proper proportion of good sense,
was blended in her all the real delicacy and
refinement—all the retiring modesty, that
L 6 render
228 DE will,ENBERG.
render the female character truly amiable.
Her bosom was devoid of every thing like
the fastidious and disgusting prudery that
would have led some women to start with,
horror and surprise at the bare idea of so
liciting, under any circumstances, the con
fidence of a man.
“Oh, woman, woman oh, strangely
mingled race! in how many various shapes.
hath capricious nature moulded you! Dif
ferent as the ranks and occupations she
hath assigned you through life, are the
characteristie qualities, the virtues and the
vices, the errors and defects—nay, the very
perfections, she hath given to each. Love
ly, fascinating woman whose smile is a
spell over the heart of man, for whose hap
piness and delight thou wert sent on earth
—a charm, when emanating from a virtu
ous soul, from which no power can disen
thral him. Never indeed are you half so
lovely as when the soft and gentle blush
of timidity beams upon your cheek, and
graceful
DE WILLENBERG. 929
graceful modesty is the halo that shines
around you—never less so than when that
brightness fades, for with it fades that
charm by which you hold us.
Affectation is the monster that can cloud
the beauty of the finest form, and pervert
the qualities of the noblest mind. Surely
then if woman did but see it in its naked
and sickening deformity, she would shrink
from imitating—may,from thevery thought
of an object so loathsome, as she would flee
at sight of the poisoned basilisk. Such a
thing Victoria had never known; she fol
lowed the dictates of her unsophisticat
ed heart, and those dictates were seldom.
wrong. " -
With one of her sweetest, most resistless
looks—a look of sympathy, tenderness,
and love, she approached the table where,
almost unconsciously, De Willenberg was
leaning, with his head resting on his hand.
—“Theodore,” said she, “I cannot longer
in
230 DE WILLENBERG,
in silence regard you thus melancholy—
thus changed from yourformer self. Your
griefs, I fear, are of no common nature;
yet surely to confide the cause of them to
the one you profess to love, will diminish
their poignancy, and my participating
will render them less difficult to be borne;
or should they be less serious than I ap
prehend, and sympathy avail not, why
then I must fairly rally you out of them.”
A look, strongly expressive of gratitude,
of more than gratitude, was the only reply
he could for some time make; he would
have taken her hand, and carried it to his
hips, but he recollected himself, and his
usual firmness withheld him from the
action.—“Profess to love you!” he reite
rated,gaining more command over himself;
“oh, lady, I did profess it ! and, alas, alas !
too deeply I felt what I professed. Had
I not loved you, I could, with comparative
indifference, have borne this blow; did I
not love you still, few things could have
changed me thus. But what madness is
this
l] F. WILLENBERG. 231
this I am hurrying into ? No, no, I dare
not longer profess—dare not longer feel
for you a sentiment that would be now so
presumptuous in me. I did fondly, fervent
ly love you, but I must do so no more;
delusion has long sported with my senses,
but my dream of happiness is at an end.”
“For Heaven's sake, Theodore, what
mean you ?” she demanded, in a voice not
less agitated than his. “You are plunging
still deeper and deeper into mystery. You
are not capricious, therefore your words
must have some terrible meaning. Why"
should you not love me yet 2—what is the
delusion you fancy? Think you I have
made vows but to trifle with you, and break
them to turn your attachment into jest?
or think you 53.
“Oh, no, no, Victoria, I never thought
so; Heaven forbid I should have so wrong
ed you ! The very strength and purity of
your affection augment my misery; for
to preserve myself from the censure of my
own heart, I must—I must cease to love—
Cease
232 IDE WILLENBERG.
cease to think of you! I am no longer
worthy of you, and my love must make a
desperate sacrifice to rectitude.”
“Explain all this, I beseech you, Theo
dore! keep me not in such agonizing sus
pense. How is it you are unworthy of
Ime?”
“This morning's letter sealed my doom;
all hope of my father's forgiveness is at an
end; but do not—do not ask me more; I
could refuse you nothing, and should but
reveal what is yet uncertain even to my
self; this painful, dreadful fact alone is all
I dare trust to another. I am ruined—
beggared. My cruel father has willed all—
all his property far from my reach for ever!
even the miserable pittance hitherto allow
ed me is wrested from me. I am now
little beyond the mendicant who depends
on public charity for subsistence, for all
mydependence is on thefluctuatingchances
ofa military life. But a few days ago,and
oh, what hopes—what sweet, delightful,
radiant hopes dawned upon me! Alas!
the
DE WILLENBERG. 233
the sun of my happiness soon set in clouds
of never-ending sorrow, or that will end
but with my life.”
“And what of all this, Theodore? If
the unnatural being you still term your
father has forsaken and robbed you ofyour
rights, is there not one who claims that
appellation from you in reality? My fa
ther is yours—my wealth, in being mine,
is yours—my happiness, I trust, will also
be yours, and, possessed of these, what
more have we to wish for?” -
“Nothing, nothing more, Victoria, if
those I dare possess. But assuredly you
would not marry a beggar?”
“Theodore, this language is ungenerous
—it is ungrateful; I expected it not from
the man I gave my affections to, unbiassed
by a sordid or a mercenary thought—from
the man whose vows of love were pledged
to me in the very face of Heaven. But,
signor, if you wish to retract those vows
(and the duke's artful insinuation now
rushed upon her memory)—if your heart
- has
234 DE WILLENBERG,
has indeed chosen another, and a worthier
object, then I conjure you say so; drop at
once this mask, and tell me plainly, can
didly, that you wish all attachment be
tween us to cease for ever.”
“Wish it to cease!” he repeated, while
a tear started to his eye. “No; I cannot
do injustice to my feelings—I cannot say:
so; though, for both our sakes, it were bet
ter if such an attachment did not exist.”
“How were it better? If you do not
wish so, think you the injustice of another
towards you can lessen you in my esteem?
if you do, you know me not. Little in
deed must the mind be to which real worth
and goodness, devoid of riches and power,
bring not their own recommendation.”
“Enough dearest Victoria!” exclaim
ed he, her amiable arguments overcoming
all his fears and all his scruples; “to be
loved by you is still my glory—the very
summit of my ambition; I cannot—will
not deny it, nor that my love for you is
as ardent and sincere as ever. Do not
* wrong
DE WILLENBERG. 235
wrong me by believing for a single mo
ment that it is in the power of any mortal
to wean my affections from you; they are
still all your own; I will hope, again hope
for promotion, and then—”
He was just about to say what would
have unfolded the whole letter to her, but
the timely return of the count and madame
Bertonville checked him, and for several
moments he remained silent.
They strove to wear out the remainder,
of this tedious evening by a disjointed sort
of conversation. Each tried to be cheerful,
in order to make the others so; but their
gaiety was forced, and did not last long.
As the hour for separating for the night
approached, Theodore became more pen
sive and abstracted than he had yet been ;
but when the moment for saying “good
night” arrived, his excessive agitation al
most
236 DE WILLENBERG.
most alarmed them; he could hardly pro
mounce it, and he threw himselfon a chair,
unable, for a few minutes, to articulate
any thing.
“Good God! you are ill—very ill, The
odore ” said madame Bertonville, wiping
with a handkerchief the cold moisture
that had overspread his forehead. “You
must take something to compose you be
fore you go to bed.”
“What can compose my distracted
mind at such a time as this?” he cried,
raising his hand to conceal the tears that
trembled in his eyes. Recollecting him
self, he added—“I must not indulge this
weakness—I am ashamed of it. But alk
may soon be well.”
“God grant it, my dear boy " said the
count, pressing De Willenberg's hand,
who arose to endeavour to tear himself
away. The effort was a violent and ago
nizing one, but he succeeded; and not
daring
DE WILLENBERG. 237
daring to trust himself with another look
atVictoria, he faltered out—“Good-night!”
and precipitately left the room.
Victoria's terrors gave a frightful import
to his words; a thousand horrible fancies
took possession of her, and it was with
much difficulty her father and the countess
could so far argue her out of them, as to
persuade her to retire to rest. She with
drew at length to her apartment, and laid
her aching head upon her pillow, but not
to sleep; repose shed not this night its
sweet and gentle soporific over her dis
turbed senses; her thoughts chased it from
her, for she knew that De Willenberg en
joyed it not. In this state of restlessness
and apprehension she continued the whole
of the (to her) unusually-long night; and
heated and unrefreshed, she descended
next morning to the breakfast-room, where
she expected to meet Theodore as dejected
and unhappy as the day before.
He
238 IDE WILLENBERG,
He was not there when she entered.
The gloomy and spiritless cast of her fea
tures changed suddenly to a deep expres
sion of alarm, which was also visible in
the count and madame Bertonville. She
faintly inquired if he had yet left his bed
room; and being answered in the nega
tive, a half-suppressed exclamation of fear
escaped her, and almost mechanically she
took a seat.
For a long time all was perfect silence,
except at intervals disturbed by their sighs,
or the measured steps of the count, as he
paced to and fro in evident perturbation.
The accustomed breakfast-hour was long
past, and still De Willenberg came not;
and no longer able to endure conjecture
for his absence, count Herman hastened to
seek him in his apartment.
On reaching the door he tapped gently,
and listened to ascertain if he was still
asleep.
DE WILLENBERG. 239
-
asleep. Not a sound was heard within;
the silence of the grave seemed to reign
there. He delayed yet a moment, but all
was as before; and in expectation of some
horrible event, he wildly burst open the
door.
The most frightful spectacle would now
have less appalled him than the terrible
certainty that Theodore was not there. As
if doubting the evidence of his senses, he
gazed and regazed around, until his eyes
appeared ready to start from their sockets;
but in vain he gazed—in vain Theodore's
name resounded through the lofty suite of
rooms; he was indeed gone! His bed
had not been slepton; every thing was in
the same order as on the preceding even
ing, but whither, or for what mysterious
purpose, he had departed, it was impossible
to guess. -
An opposite door led into a dark and
extensive gallery, which had been almost
entirely
240 IDE WILLENBERG.
entirely shut up for some years past, and
from the further extremity of which a nar
row staircase wound round the tower that
terminated it. Opening this door, the
count again called Theodore's name, but
the echoes from the long and winding
passages beneath, were the only sounds he
heard in answer. He descended the stairs,
and found the door at the bottom closed,
but the rusty bolts drawn back, from which
it was evident that it had been lately open
ed, and through it he entered the forest
with which it communicated. Still call
ing him—still hoping the sound might
somewhere reach his ear, he sought the
fugitive De Willenberg in every part of
this woody labyrinth.
Another hour thus passed away, and
then, in the most agitated state of mind,
he returned to the castle, to impart the
dreadful intelligence that Theodore was
nowhere to be found.
In
DE WILLENBERG. 241
In the meantime, Victoria and her
aunt had waited, with a tolerable share
of composure, in the saloon, until some
of the intervening doors being opened,
Theodore's name, pronounced by the
count, reached their anxiously-listening
ears. From this they concluded that De
Willenberg was not in his bedroom.
No responsive voice was heard, and
impatient at the count's delay, they both
repaired to the deserted chamber; but
there no human being, save themselves,
was visible. What might have occurred
they waited not to conjecture. The door
into the gallery, and that at the bottom
of the staircase, lay wide open, and they
unhesitatingly proceeded through the for
rest in search of them, thinking it the most
likely place to find them in. ,
They had not gone far, when they met
the count, attended by Conrad and an
other of the servants, who, having been
VOL. I. M. " Oſt
243 DE WILLENBERG.
on some business to a neighbouring vil
kage, were crossing through the forest by
a nearer path home than the road was,
and hearing his lordship's voice amongst
the trees, had ventured to interrogate him
as to the cause of the emotions that shook
his whole frame. -
Conrad's astonishment and grief at the
flight of his beloved master was littleshort
of frenzy, but the most melancholy and
most difficult task was to communicate
it to Victoria and the countess. The scene
that then ensued no language could con
vey a just idea of; every part of the cas
tle, every place contiguous to it, were
searched, and searched in vain. Theodore
had indeed fled, perhaps for ever fled; or,
oh yet more horrible possibility, perhaps
had, driven to it by despair, done some
rash, some fatal, terrible deed—committed
suicide!
The bare idea sent such a general sen
- sation
DE WILLENBERG. 243
sation of horror through the house, that
every thing possible seemed to them every
thing probable, and such a probability as
this last gained so strong an ascendancy
over the minds of the domestics, that they
soon held it as a decided thing, that the
young senor had fallen by his own hands.
Impressed with a firm belief of this, a
body of them sallied forth, with different
implements, to drag all the ponds, lakes,
and rivulets with which the place abound
ed; not a cavity, whose waters could
cover a human body, was left unexplored;
but all—all wasfruitless, and they returned
more disheartened, and more terrified,
than they had been before.
Ever ready to seize upon any thing
bordering on the mysterious or the mar
vellous, they now did not hesitate to
suggest every extravagant idea that could
find a place in their extravagant heads,
as the causes of his flight; and Barbara
very sagaciously affirmed that la jeune
M 2 demoiselle
244 DE WILLENBERG.
demoiselle Klopstock, to whom his father
had betrothed him, had, in all likelihood,
died, for the dreadful and vindictive pur
pose of spiriting him away, just as he was
going to be married to another. The
others were now, however, too much ab
sorbed in real sorrow to laugh, as they
usually did, at her absurd fancies. But
though she talked thus idly, she possessed
a good heart, and was as sincerely grieved
as any of them.
Passing again through Theodore's
chamber, count Herman observed on a ta
ble a small sealed packet, which he had be
fore overlooked. Eagerly seizing it, with
the hope of its affording him some clue
towards a discovery, he found it directed
to himself, and in Theodore's handwrit
ing. He was just on the point of tearing
it open, when part of the superscription
arrested him, and he read the following
words:—
t
66 To
IDE WILLENETER.G. 245
“To the count Herman.
“Should you see no more of the
unfortunate Theodore within three days,
open this, and it will explain all.”
-*
• Conjecture was now at an end; in the
count's mind the frightful ills he had fear
ed were verified.—“Oh, horrible, horrible
confirmation of all I dreaded !” exclaimed
he, as the packet dropped from his tremb
ling hand; “even ere this the worst may
be over, and Theodore no longer within
the reach of human power to make him
my son.”
He groaned aloud at the horrors his
alarmed imagination had engendered, and
madame Bertonville, who was passing
through the corridor outside, rushed in to
see what was the matter. The packet lay
on the floor, and picking it up, she read
the same ill-boding lines, and formed the
M 3 Same
w
246 DE WILLENBERG.
same conclusions; but from what all this
might have originated, neither of them
could decide. How to quiet Victoria's
apprehensions was the next question;
they dared not think of yet opening the
letter; and to tell her of the injunction
on its envelope would be, not to tranquil
lize them, but to augment them perhaps
into much more terrible certainty.
*
Judging it advisable to conceal it from
her knowledge altogether, the count lock
ed the letter in his bureau; and the better
to keep her from suspecting the extent of
this misfortune, they forced upon them
selves an air of composure, very incom
patible with the state of their feelings,
and calmly suggested to her, that, had
De Willenberg torn himself away for any
considerable length of time, he would
surely have left some explanation for his
absence behind. But their reasoning, and
their arguments, were lost upon Victoria; .
she easily penetrated their motives, and
she
-
DE WILLENBERG. 947
she feared that the evil was greater, much
greater, than they chose to allow.
This day was one of the bitterest sor
row, and the deepest gloom, that Herman
Castle had ever witnessed; amongst all
its inhabitants, from the humblest to the
most exalted, the same grief and dejec
tion, the same tearful eyes, bore testimony
to the worth of him whose unaccountable
absence they lamented. How sad and
dreary was the blank it left! how totally
cheerless felt every bosom, devoid of the
pleasure that the amiable De Willenberg's
presence never failed to inspire! Their
darling favourite was gone—gone perhaps
for ever! and who was now to enliven
their tedious hours?—None; for none
indeed seemed inclined to dispel the clouds
of melancholy in which they had wrapt
themselves.
Victoria was almost inconsolable; until
this occurrence, the strength of her attach
- ment
248 DE WILLENBERG.
ment had never been fully displayed; and
the conviction that she had lost the object
of it, when she was on the eve of posses
sion, required more philosophy than even
her accomplished mind was furnished
with, to support it with any thing like
tranquillity.
As evening drew near, that serene and
pleasing period of the day when Theo
dore's fascinating gaiety and liveliness were
wont to give brilliancy even to the deep
eming shadows of twilight, when the fami
ly circle were aceustomed to assemble at
their various elegant and interesting occu
pations, amusing and amused, her dejec
tion/inereased.
No Theodore was there now to enliven
them—perhaps never would be again.
Every pulse throughout her frame throb
bed fainter and fainter; and trembling at
such a probability, she was obliged to
exert herself to retire to the solitude of
her
~
DE WILLENBERG. 249
her own apartment, there to give way
to the feelings of her overcharged heart,
in a long-continued flow of tears.
END OF WOL. I.
=- == -
Printed by J. Darling, Leadenhall-Street, London.
- - E
NEW PUBLICATIONS,
PRINTED Poit
.A. K. W.E.W.M.A.W. & Co.
AT THE
v/newa *.
LEADENHALL-STREET, LONDON.
-
£ s. d.
Hypocrite, or the Modern Janus, 5 vols ............ 1 50
The Wife, by Mrs. Edgeworth, 3 vols .............. 0 15 0
All Sorts of Lovers, or Indiscretion, Truth, and Perfidy,
by Henry Summerset, Author of the Mad Man of
the Mountains, &c. 3 vols.................... . . 0 150
Married Life, or Faults on all Sides, by Miss Howard,
5 vols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 50
Bath and London, or Scenes in each, 4 vols. . . . . . . . . . , 1 1 0
The Schoolmistress, by Mrs. Hunter, of Norwich, Au
thor of Letitia, Lady Maclairn, &c. 2 vols.......... 0 8 0
Eva of Cambria, by Emma de Lisle, 3 vols.......... 0 150
Stratagems Defeated, by Gabrielli, 3 vols............ 1 4 0
Soldier of Pennaflor, 5 vols........................ 1 100
The Miseries of an Heiress, by A. F. Holstein, 4 vols 1 2 0
Di Montranzo, or the Novice of Corpus Domini, by
Louisa Sidney Stanhope, 4 vols .............. ... 1 1 0
The Blind Beggar, or the Fountain of St. Catherine,
by the Author of Julien, or My Father's House, &c.
4 vols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 4 0
Modern Times, or the World we Live in, a Post
humous Novel, by Mrs. Helme, 2d edition, 3 vols. 0 15 0
Strathbogie, or the Recluse of Glenmorris, by Alicia
M*Gennis, 5 vols. .............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 76
Life of Baron Trenck, a new edition, by Thomas Hol
-eroft, 8 vols. ****** -------------------ee-ea-e-a-sas-- Q 16 6
-
DE will ENBERG;
OR,
THE TALISMAN.
A TALE of MYSTER Y.
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
-ms
BY I. M. H. HALES, ESQ.
AUTHOR OF THE ASTROLOGEr.
Such is the weakness of all mortal hope,
So fickle is the state of earthly things,
That ere they come into their aimed scope,
They fall so short of our frail reckonings,
And bring us bale and bitter sorrowings,
Instead of comfort, which we should embrace
This is the state of Caesars and of Kings.
Let mone, therefore, that is in meaner place,
Too greatly grieve at any his unlucky case. SPENSER.
WOL. II.
-—B->e-º-º
LONDON :
- PRINTED FOR
A. K. NEWMAN AND CO. LEADEN HALL-STREET.
1821.
--
w:
-
*
.
-
-
-
-
-
-
-----
*
-
-------
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
*
...
f.
ice
º
'º
.
.
.
.
.
.
--
-
-
1.
."
-
-
***
•
*
*
*
.
.
*
-
…
*
..
*
º
º
g
--
º
º
--
-
...
a
4.
****
*
*
**
*
*
-
-
-,
*
:
*
*
*
*
*
*
*a*,
*.*.*.*.*.*
--
.
.
.
*
*
*
-
*
†
-
".
.
.
.
.
.
.”
.
.
.
.
*
*
ºº:
t.
"
…
.
.
.
nº
tº
,
--
2-
ºve
*
*
tº
ºf
ºf
.
.
.
.
"a
2
*
:
*
*
*
*
*
>
*
-
**
*
-----
-
-
-
-
---
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
--
*
ºf
ty.
A
tº
º'
;
:
--
***
*
-
-
*
*
*
•
*
.-
- ;
,
e.
f
*
*
*
*
-
-
:
.
.
.
.
--sº-º-
*
-
-
*
*
*
--
--
*
*
-
--
-
-
-
i.
*...*
.
.
.
.*
*
*
,
*
*
…
"
-
-
-
-
º
--
x
-
x
*
-
*
*
*
**
*
~
*
*.
*
*
-
-
-
--
-
-*.
-
*.
*.
**
-
-
:*
º
º
-
--
*
*
*
*
*
-
º
*
*
*
*
s
-
-
*
.
-
-
-
-
*
*
* ill,
i.
si,
f
:
.
.
.
.
.
.
-
-
-
º
*
-
-z
-
*
-
e
-
-
-
--
-
*
-
:
º
.*
º
*
*
*
...,
.*
º
*
:
*
~
*
*
*
-
~
T
1:
,
1,
,
;
y
r*.,
"
:
º
DE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER I.
-->4
Each lonely scene shall thee restore;
For thee the tear be duly shed;
Beloved till life can charm no more,
And mourned till pity's self be dead.
Collins.
SoMEwHAT relieved by a flee indul.
gence of her tears, and knowing that im
muring herself thus would depress her still
more, Vietoria sought her father in his li
brary, whither he had withdrawn to rumi
nate over the events of the day. He was
extended at full length on a couch, in the
darkest part of the room; and until she
WOL. II. B stood
2 DE WILLENBERG.
stood close beside him, she did not per
ceive that he was asleep. Deep and fre
quent sighs escaped him, and convinced
her that the object of his waking thoughts
was also that of his slumbering ones. He
started several times, and moaned in all
the anguish of mental misery. The sight
of her beloved parent in such a state was
even worse to her than what she had her
self suffered, and had power to steal her
thoughts for a moment from De Willen
berg.
Fearful of awaking him to the sad real
ity of his dreams, she was softly retiring,
when an involuntary motion of his arm
disengaging his hand from the breast of
his vest, in which it had been wrapped, at
the same moment a letter fell from him on
the floor; but he awoke not. It was the
ominous packet De Willenberg had left,
and which he had, overcome by anxiety
and apprehension, imprudently opened and
read. An idea that it was such instantly
^ - flashed
DE WILLENBERG. 3
flashed over Victoria's mind—that it had
been written by her Theodore, and might
reveal his fate. The possibility of learn
ing from it all she wished, all she dreaded
to know, urged her on to what she would,
in any other case, have shrunk from. She
cautiously took it up—the superscription
verified her forebodings—it was indeed
her lover's handwriting, and impatiently
throwing aside the envelope which loosely
covered the letter, her eye began to devour
its contents. She had not proceeded half
through it, when a deathlike faintness seiz
ed her; completely unnerved, she let it
drop, and, with a piercing cry, fell senseless
beside the couch.
Roused by the noise, her father instant
ly started up, and raised her inanimate
form in his arms, and horror-struck at the
discovery she had made, he snatched up
the fatal letter. In all the wildness of an
ticipation of some additional calamity,
madame Bertonville now rushed in; her
B 2 looks
4. DE will,ENBERG.
looks sufficiently demanded an explana
tion, and the count was reluctantly obliged
to acknowledge his indiscretion.
This was however no time for expostu
lation; Victoria required prompt assist
ance, and the bell was rung to summon
some of the domestics. By proper reme
dies she was slowly restored to animation;
but the faculty of reason returned not with
it; her countenance wore an expression.
almost of frenzy, and she tried to tear her.
self from the supporting arms of her aunt,
who wept bitterly as she leaned over her.
She fancied her lover lying before her, dead
—murdered! and sheshuddered fearfullyat.
the frightful vision; then again her imagi
nation brought his bleeding form back to
life; she tried to grasp the airy shadow,
and uttered exclamations of frantic joy, as
if he stood beside her alive and safe.
The paroxysm at length subsided; her
senses became clearer, and, overeome by
:- the
DE WILLENBERG. 5.
the violence of her sufferings, she shed a
fresh torrent of tears, and sank gradually
into a state of calmness and resignation.
She was conveyed to bed, and by the aid
of some composing medicine, administered
to her by her aunt, a profound and tran
quil sleep came on, favourable to her reco
very, and the countess watched anxiously
beside her, until the dawning morning in
dicated to her the necessity of seeking the
refreshment of sleep for herself.
Victoria was as well, and as composed,
on the succeeding morning, as she could
be expected to be, on an occasion so try
ing to her fortitude; and the count and
countess concealed the wretchedness of
their own hearts, in order to soothe hers
more effectually into pious submission to
whatever might have befallen De Willen
berg.
- They were themselves not without a
gleam of hope, and this it was that lighted
B 3 them
6 DE WILLENBERG.
them through the dreary day that follow
ed; but again the gloom of night came on,
and Theodore came not with it. Like a
fell storm that comes in spring, blasting all
Nature's reviving beauties, so did the close
of day now banish their hopes, and so fell
the final blow like it, spreading nothing
around but horror and desolation.
A report reached the castle, that De
Willenberg had some hours before been
assassinated by banditti.
Between Herman Castle and the town
of Zersk, where Theodore's regiment was
at this time stationed, with its royal com
mander, the duke of Silesia, and which
was at some leagues distance, lay an an
cient and extensive forest, through which,
though it was the nearest way to pass to
Zersk, it was universally known to be
dangerous to every traveller that ventured
into its frightful and intricate labyrinths,
many parts of it preserving the darkness
of
DE WILLENBERG. 7
of midnight, and especially from the for
midable bands of marauders that infested
its secret caverns and recesses. So gene
ral were the prejudice and terror existing
against it, that it had long received the
signal appellation of the Forest of Death.
None dared reside in its vicinity, and all
those who did live nearest, scrupulously
avoided advancing a step further towards
it, always taking a circuitous road, when
ever they had occasion to go to their town.
Through some channel from this forest,
a communication of the murder of De
Willenberg had undoubtedly been made,
and was as unquestionably believed. Had
a thunderbolt fallen from heaven, carrying
destruction with it, the count and his sis
ter would have been less appalled than at
this intelligence, surpassing almost all that
they had yet ventured to conjecture.
Who, amid this scene ofhorror and con
sternation, would have idly preached phi
B 4 losophy
8. DE WILLENBERG.
losophy as an antidote to a calamity so
tremendous 2 None but the hardened
and unfeeling stoic, the stern misan
thrope, who, fancying himself better or
wiser than the rest of his erring species,
has retired from the world, to condemn -
the follies in which he himself has shared,
to prescribe to the human heart new laws,
new doctrines, new ethics, to which his
prejudices and his resentment alone have
given birth. 2
None of the inhabitants of Herman Casr
tle possessed a heart so stoical, or indeed
so fortified by any other feeling, as to be
able to resist the weight of such repeated
and such dreadful blows to their domestie
peace, and this last entirely overturned
every thing like resignation they had be
gun to feel to the first. Their immediate
efforts were directed to guard it from Vic
toria's knowledge, and as she had not left
her chamber all day, it was the more easily
concealed from her.
From
IDE WILLENBERG. 9
From having sat up with her niece
during the whole of the preceding night,
madame Bertonville felt so languid and
unwell, that both the count and Victoria
now decidedly protested against the ne
cessity of her doing so again. The latter,
in fact, did not appear in actual need of an
attendant through the night, being, as
she said herself, certainly much better;
but as they would not hear of her being
left altogether alone, it was fixed that her
maid Barbara should remain with her for
at least, two or three hours, and retire to
bed when she saw her young lady in a
sound and comfortable sleep.
The garrulous femme de chambre had
not been allowed to disturb her all day by
her accustomed prattle, and, like an impe
tuous torrent of water suddenly stemmed,
and ready to burst forth at the first out
let with renewed violence, so was she
ready to pour all she had gleaned, and all
she had, for the last twenty-four hours,
- B 5 been,
10 DE WILLENBERG.
*
been debarred from telling, into the first
ear that was ready to listen to her. Here
then she thought was an admirable oppor
tunity, and she eagerly accepted the post
assigned her. Even the powerful emo
tions excited by the belief of De Willen
berg's having been murdered, were not
sufficient to restrain her loquacity, and it
was with much difficulty she could so far
obey the injunctions she had received from
the count and madame Bertonville, as to
keep her countenance from proclaiming at
once all she had heard. She found Vic
toria in a light slumber, and being thus
precluded from talking aloud, she began
to mutter to herself in a low tone, but not
so indistinct as not very soon to awaken
her lady, which she by no means regret
ted,
Our heroine's first inquiry was, whether
any thing had yet been heard of De Wik
lenberg? and she stammered out a reply .
in the negative, as well, and with as much
a plausibility,
DE WILLENBERG, II
plausibility, as her inclination to reveal the
whole affair would permit. -
Again Victoria closed her eyes, and was
again roused by Barbara, who, impatient to
talk of something, remarked, that she
wondered what that very terrible letter
contained, that could make him run off in
such a manner. But this manoeuvre to
gratify her curiosity not succeeding, she
hit upon another expedient—“If I knew
what that same letter was about,” said she ;
“I could guess—ay, I could say for cer
tain which way he went, and something
more about him into the bargain; as to
searching anywhere hereabouts for him,
it is like looking for a needle in a bundle of
straw, or going to the goat's house to look
for wool—that I am sure and certain of”
“Tell me, tell me, I beseech you, if you
know any thing of him!” exclaimed Vic
toria, half-starting from her bed. “Oh,
where is he?—speak!” -
“Speak! why, my dear young lady,
B 6 that
12 DE WILLENBERG.
thatis just what I want to do; but there is
an old saying—a sorrowful face brings bad
news.” -
* For mercy's sake, Barbara, explain
yourself at once What additional bad
news have you to tell me?”
“Now, my sweet lady Victoria, don't
look so scared, though, to be sure, one can't
help being so; and, for my part, I am 33
“To what does all this lead, Barbara?”
“Oh, lady, lady, misfortune never comes
alone, as I said the other day, when I fell
in the mud, and cut my face,and spoiled my
new tiffany into the bargain; I had made
it up only a few days before, a la mode de
Paris. But what do you think has hap
pened 2*
“I cannot, dare not, guess. Tell me
briefly, I implore you.”
“You know the old forest between this
and Zersk, and people don't speak over
and above well of it.”
“To the point, Barbara; torture me not
with such digressions.”
“Well,
DE WILLENPI.R.G. 13
“Well, as I was saying, your ladyship
knows that same forest is full of banditti,
God bless us! and what does the senor De
Willenberg do, but he must needs try to
pass through it, and—”
Victoria trembled from head to foot,
and again sank back on her pillow; and
Barbara, seriously alarmed, and regretting
her having said any thing about it, made
a violent effort to check herself—“Oh,
my beloved young lady, be calm, I be
seech you,” cried she, starting from her
seat; “let us hope the dear senor is happy,
and lives.”
“Lives " echoed Victoria; “assure me
of it ! say that word again! let me seize
the hope, as the drowning wretch who
seizes on any thing for safety."
“He lives in a better world, I trust,
lady,” ſaltered Barbara. -
“Add not the rest P’ exclaimed Victo
ria, with the wild air of insanity; “my
fancy draws the frightful picture I see
him wounded—dead! I will fly to my .
Theodore,
14 DE WILLENBERG.
Theodore, bind up his bleeding wounds,
and in these arms enshroud him for ever
from the tomb's relentless jaws far and
near shall revenge proclaim his death, and
the murderers, the blood-hound fiends, who
dared to strike the blow, shall feel my ven
geance, and learn from it, that though
hell's fit inhabitants may war amongst
themselves, Heaven never decreed that
demons should thus desolate the earth,
making mankind their prey.”
Barbara now deeply repented her indis
cretion; but it was too late, and she could
only endeavour, if possible, to repair it.
She waited until the violence of the shock
was somewhat abated, and then gently
approached her.
As she had hoped, a copious gush of
tears followed, and knowing that they
generally relieved her, she did not venture
to restrain them. Victoria then sank for
a while into a state of silent and thought
ful
DE WILLENBERG. 15
ful melancholy, which her attendant did
not interrupt by a single word.
As if slowly awaking from a reverie,
her lips again breathed forth her lover's
name; she was evidently so abstracted as
to be wholly unconscious that there was
any body present, while Barbara neverthe
less perceived that her senses were again
under the guidance of reason.
“It was Heaven's will,” sighed she, “to
pour this affliction on us, and its will that
we should calmly bear it. These—these
are the blows that try a Christian's pa
tience; and as we bear them, so will our
rewards be proportioned in heaven here
after—in a world beyond the grave, free
from sin and sorrow ; there shall I meet
my Theodore—there, where all is peace
and joy, and we shall love and live for ever.
Yes, with all a Christian's firmness, will I
submit to this direful stroke of fate; not
a murmur shall steal unnoticed from my
lips—
16 IDE WILLENBERG.
lips—not a sound shall tell the unfeeling
world I mourn his death; they know not
how to sympathize with grief like mine,
and would but mock it with their com
monplace professions—in my bosom will
I treasure up his image. I will fly man
kind, and try to forget their treacheries;
in some convent's dark retirement, I will
bury myself, there undisturbed to feed my
sorrow with the memory of my love, as
the oil feeds the wick that consumes it,
until memory and life shall be no more.”
Raising her eyes at this moment, they
met those of Barbara, who now advancing
closer, ventured to address her. The af.
fectionate girl wept from sympathy, as
much as from the recollection ofTheodore's
fate, and her own imprudence in revealing
it.—“My dear lady Victoria,” said she, “I
shall never, never forgive myself for this;
I ought to remember that a silent tongue
is a good friend; but you know, ‘what
cannot be cured must be endured, and
they say, ‘out of evil cometh good; but,
- SWeet
DE WILLENBERG. 17
sweet lady, do not take it so to heart—let
me try to console you.”
Victoria felt and owned herself grateful,
for in this humble domestic's manner there
was proof of a kind and feeling heart; but,
alas! the consolation she required it was
not in poor Barbara's power to bestow.—
“Few things earthly could bring me com
fort now, Barbara,” said she, mournfully.
“Sorrows of a lighter nature your honest
tears might help to wash away, but mine
are deeply fixed—they are silent, selfish,
and will be shared by none.”
“Indeed, my lady, you must not give
way; you must strive to bear up against
them; the senor is happier, I hope, than
either of us, as I said before.”
“Yes, yes, I will, with all the strength
religion can furnish, bear up against it;
but I beseech you, mention my love no
more.”
Barbara looked the incredulity she felt,
at the idea of Victoria's wishing to forget
him
18 DE WILLENBERG.
him so soon, even almost at the very hour
of his death, and her countenance suffi
ciently spoke what her tongue would fain
have uttered.
“Mistake me not,” said Victoria, guess
ing her thoughts; “ in this bosom the
image of my Theodore shall for ever live;
but here to speak of him—here, where he
fell—where, butcher-like, they slew him,
were treason to his memory. Cease to .
name him—my silent thoughts alone shall
be with him.” w
“But silent pent-up grief will surely
break your heart. I would rather see you
weep for him, and be yourself again; if
any thing can ever restore cheerfulness
amongst us, it will be that.” -
“Oh, no, no, Barbara ! the world has
nothing now left to cheer me, and what
should I have left to cheer the world? it
is a wicked one, and I will quit it for
ever.”
Starting aghast, as if with some new
horror,
DE WILLENBERG. 19
horror, Barbara rivetted her eyes firmly
on her lady.—“ Quit it!” repeated she.
“Mon Dieu ! what would your ladyship
do P”
Victoria immediately comprehended her,
and an involuntary shudder shewed that
she did so; but widely different was the
real meaning of her words from that which
Barbara's imagination had affixed to them;
religion and piety were too constant in
mates of her bosom, to allow a thought
inimical to them to enter there; in sick
ness or in health, in happiness or in sorrow,
still they kept their station round her
heart, and, by their vigilance, repelled the
approach of every hostile sentiment.
In losing Theodore, she felt that she had
lost the chief prop of her earthly affections
—those affections, at least, that nature in
tended she should feel for none but a
lover; they no longer had an object to rest
upon,
20 2. DE WILLENBERG.
upon, but his visionary image, and those
purer ones, detached from every sublunary
thought, shone through her bosom as they
dwindled, with more brightness than be
fore. -
A life of seclusion, of all others, she had,
until this period, been most unfitted for;
the uniform gaiety and vivacity of her
temper and disposition, free from every
tincture of prejudice, had made her hither
to regard monastic retirement as suitable
only to those whom Heaven had not
formed capable of enjoyment amongst the
busy scenes of men. Of that capability
she was now herself divested; the great
world had lost its former charms for her—
all its joys were turned to bitterness, all
its sunshine into clouds and dreary
gloom; and from such a world, such an
altered world, she had made up her mind
to withdraw completely, to bury herself
and her sorrows in the eternal solitude
of
. I).E WILLENBERG, 21
of a convent, and when time should
have mellowed those sorrows, to take the
veil, and devote herself entirely to her
God.
- Short was the space of time in which
these resolves had been made, but they
were firm and unalterable at present. She
was aware that her father would never,
from any consideration, sanction such a
step, retaining, as he did, all the senti
ments she herself had once experienced,
and decidedly resolute as he would be
against parting from a child he so tender
ly loved—an only child too! for whose
happiness he had all his life been labour
ing. With as much chance of their obe
dience, she knew she might command all
the elements in nature to stand still, as ask
his consent to her entering a monastery,
and becoming a nun; and to go without
it, to leave clandestinely the paternal roof,
would indeed be heart-rending; it was
more than she could at first resolve on; yet
to
22 DE WILLENBERG.
to go she now had resolved; and reflection
told her, that to solicit the count's consent,
to hear his steady refusal, and then, in
actual, open defiance of that refusal,
to fly from her home, from such a
father, would magnify her conduct, if not
into crime, at least into the blackest in
gratitude. Her aunt too, she knew,
would be immoveably hostile to it, for
madame Bertonville loved her with a mo
ther's fondness, and, to the rigour ofa con
ventual life, had ever expressed herself a
determined enemy.
No alternative offered. To endeavour
to sink the remembrance of De Willen
berg into oblivion, by remaining longer on
the public stage of life, was revolting to all
her feelings; even were self-seclusion a sa
crifice, she deemed it such a sacrifice as
love demanded, and it was incumbent on
her to make.
Knowing, therefore, that to inform them
of
DE WILLENBERG. 28
of her intention, would be exactly to have
it frustrated, she was obliged to determine,
and her heart smote her as she did so, to
depart without their knowledge or con
sent, and in a few hours too from the pre
sent time. -
Yet to go, and to go, as she supposed,
for ever, without even a single adieu to her
excellent father or aunt, without their
blessing—those dear friends, whom nature
and their own deserts had taught her to
love and reverence from her earliest in
fancy; to do this would require no com
mon or feeble exertion—it would be a vio
lence to her feelings, that at the very mo
ment she meditated it, her better reason
could not but condemn.
In this irresolute, and wavering mood
she had continued for some time; but her
first determination finally prevailed, and
her going was decided on. To do so with
- Out
24 DE WILLENBERG.
out Barbara's knowledge, nay, without
her assistance, was impracticable, though
aware that it would be perilous to her se
cret to trust her with it, from her habitual
loquacity, and to none else dare she com
municate it, or apply for aid.
To effect her escape, she must of neces
sity not only rouse herself immediately
into bodily exertion, but also procure the
keys of the castle gates; and this she could
only hope to do by means of Barbara, who
knew where they were always deposited
at night, and she was thus reluctantly
obliged to confide her plan to her.
At the distance of a few leagues from
the castle, between it and the fatal forest
where this horrible catastrophe was report
ed to have happened, stood the ancient
and gloomyconvent ofSt. Agnes. It was
a massy and stupendous building, and had
withstood, in many places, the ravages of
time,
DE willENBERG. 25
time, from which the thick foliage in which
it was almost enveloped seemed intended
to protect it.
The unparalleled restrictions imposed
upon its inmates of every rank, and the
rigidity with which all its laws were en
forced, rendered it universally known, and
by many religious votaries, who other
wise would have sought its seclusion, uni
versally dreaded. The abbess was said to
be a proud, unfeeling woman, exulting in
the dignities of her high office, and fully
exerting, ifnot often abusing, all the power
with which she was vested.
She was the daughter of a German ba
ron, equally signalized by his poverty and
his pride; and, compelled to it by the
former, had, early in life, renounced a
world in which she had not the means of
gratifying the ambitious projects and
wishes of her haughty soul. Dreading
the contemptuous indifference of her
WOL. II. C equals,
26 DE WILLENBERG.
equals, and the scorn of her superiors, be
neath the monastic garb she successfully
veiled her longings after the scenes she
had quitted for ever, which it had now
become impiety in her to cherish. Her
outward show of strict devotion to the
duties of her present state, raised her high
in the estimation of the amiable and un
suspecting woman who then filled the sta
tion of domina there; but this latter, how
ever amiable, was not without her failings
and defects; her heart was open to cour
tesy, and her ear to flattery, which the
artful Stephania perceiving, she saw at
once how to gain her friendship, and, with
Machiavelian dexterity and perseverance,
set about her task, which she found little
difficulty in accomplishing. Her own
personal beauty had accustomed her to the
ridiculous and insincere jargon of compli
ments and hyperbole, from a few coxcombs
who had fluttered about her while that
beauty was in its meridian; and she too
well remembered their intoxicating effects
- upon
DE WILLENBERG. 27
upon herself, not to conclude that offer
ings so sweet must be equally palatable
to another.
With regard to the abbess, she was not
quite mistaken. She saw her advantage,
and followed it up, until she reached the
height she aimed at, in becoming the es
tablished favourite of that lady, who em
ployed all her interest to have her nomi
nated for her successor, when she herself
should be no more, and which was accord
ingly done.
In safe and secure possession of her post,
she tried to forget the debasing artifices
by which she had obtained it; and while
her heart retained all its naturally-bad
propensities, she wished to appear an un
bending model of rigid virtue, piety, and
decorum, and punished the slightest de
viation from either, in any of the sister
hood, with unexampled severity.
c 2 | Such
28 IDE WILLENBERG.
Such was the woman from whom the
amiable, the gentle-hearted Victoria was
about to seek the consolation of religious
counsel; she certainly knew not her cha
racter to its full extent, but even had she
known it, she had nothing to fear for her
self from her example. Her breast was
strongly fortifiedagainst theencroachments
of vice, nor had she aught to dread from her
severity, for the most malignant passion
that ever found a place in the bosom of
mortal, one innocent look of Victoria's
would have completely disarmed of resent
ment. Exclusive of this, there was not
another monastery within two days jour
ney of the castle, except the one where
she had been educated, in the vicinity of
Warsaw, and two other eminent and su
perb ones in that city, whither, were she
to venture, it was more than probable she
would be immediately recognized by many
of the sisters, who being generally of some
of the highest families in Poland, had met
her frequently at the parties and balls of
the
DE WILLENBERG. 29
the courtiers, before they had taken the
veil; and through whom it could not be
doubted that the place of her conceal
ment would very soon become universally
known.
Her mind being made up on these
points, she had next to fathom the ability
and the willingness of Barbara to forward
her plan : with much adroitness she con
trived to do so, and to her satisfaction.
Barbara at first represented to her the
imprudence of the step she was going to
take—the cruelty of thus quitting a fa
ther, who almost idolized her, and quit
ting him too without a clue, without a
single pledge, to assure him that she was
yet in existence; but her lady's argu
ments were stronger, and, to her limited
comprehension, appeared infinitely more
rational—“Would it not grieve that
father, much more than even her absence,
to behold her daily repining, daily sink
C 3 ing
30 DE WILLENBERG.
ing to the tomb of her beloved Theodore,
from which she almost hoped that this life
would not long separate her? would not
to see her thus cause such anguish to his
bosom, as nothing else could inflict?—as
suredly it would.”
This sophistry partly reconciled our he
roine to the error she was now on the
verge of, and Barbara became convinced.
Relying on her mere word for secrecy,
Victoria thought no other injunction ne
cessary, and shrunk from the idea of ren
dering that promise inviolable, by a bond
so solemn, so sacred, as an oath—a bond
which the giddy thoughtless girl would
not have hesitated a moment to give.
Naturally fond of novelty, whether a
new dress, a new face, a new expression,
or a new project, every thing new delight
ed her while it was so; and though she
could not divest her mind of the awful
impression
DE WILLENBERG. 31
impression the late intelligence had left
on it, she entered into Victoria's design,
with all the bustle, and all the ardour, it
would have been commendable in her to
evince in a more worthy undertaking;
though, in truth, one more worthy of her
ingenious talent of plotting and suggest
ing, could not have presented itself.
Never before had victoria had cause
for a pang of compunction, for never be-,
fore had she committed an action incon
sistent with filial duty and respect, and
she now felt that in going thus secretly
she was not acting right.
She endeavoured to justify it by deter
mining to write and inform her father of
her abode, as soon as she should have en
tered her noviciate, when it would be
no longer in his power, without a formal
bull from his holiness the pope, which it
would be a tedious and difficult thing to
C 4 obtain,
32 DE WILLENBERG.
obtain, to rescue her from the cloistered
life she was going to embrace; nay, when
he might, perhaps, not only no longer op
pose it, but at length yield his concurrence.
Reconciled by this specious reasoning,
nothing now remained but to arrange
matters for her speedy departure, which
Barbara cautiously, and by extraordinary
command of herself, silently set about.
. The first thing to be done was to pack
up, in as small a compass as possible,
some clothes, money, and jewels of great
value, which her mother's will had be.
queathed to her, and afterwards to procure
the keys from where the warder placed
them every night, as he supposed, in
safety. - .
On the outskirts of the castle wood, re
sided a distant relative of Barbara's, an
elderly peasant, who gained his livelihood
, by
DE WILLENBERG. 33
by making little baskets of various sorts,
and carrying them for sale to the neigh
bouring towns and villages.
This man had frequently shared the
fruits of Victoria's bounty, and to him it
was now proposed that she should apply
for a mode of conveyance to the convent,
with which he could very easily, and, she
doubted not, would very willingly, accom
modate her. a
Barbara knew that he was to set out
this morning at an early hour, and in the
direction of the monastery; and Victoria
readily agreed to her suggestion of repair
ing to his little dwelling without delay,
hiring one of his mules, and having en
joined himself to the strictest secrecy, pro
ceeding under his guidance to the place of
her destination. -
At any other time, or under any other
circumstances, our heroine would have
C 5 smiled
34 DE WILLENBERG.
smiled at, probably condemned, a plot alto
gether so romantic; but she saw it not now
in its proper light; she felt, it is true, the
impropriety there would be in her going
alone on foot such a distance and at such
an hour; and she eagerly embraced a pro
posal so consonant to her wishes and her
ideas of decorum, and which almost seem
ed to diminish the culpability of the pro
ceeding itself.
Barbara was to attend her as far as Je
rome's cottage, and afterwards to return,
with the same privacy, retire instantly to
bed, and, on the ensuing morning, when
Victoria was missed, appear totally igno
rant of the transaction.
Matters being thus settled, and our he
roine's little stock of portables in readi
mess, Barbara crept softly to the warder's
Storeroom.
Ere she had got half-way down the
great
I)E WILLENIBERG. 35
great staircase leading to it, her courage
almost failed her. Every thing around
her was enveloped in the gloom of early
twilight; all nature seemed wrapt in deep
repose; even they slept to whose hearts
she was about to be the agent in striking
so direful a blow. The very moon, which
until that instant appeared stationary be
fore the Gothic window that faced her,
had now veiled itself beneath a long train
of clouds, as if unwilling to light her on
her imprudent mission. -
She paused a while, in a state of inde
cison; she saw, in its worst colours, the in
discretion into which an affection, perhaps
too ardent, too romantic, was hurrying
Victoria; but if it were in error, if it even
wore the tint of crime, still it was not the
offspring of vice—it was the enthusiasm,
the distraction of a too sensitive heart,
and she pitied, but could not condemn.
her.
C 6. - The
36 DE WILLENBERG.
The monotonous ticking of a clock at
the stair-head gave an additional dreari
ness to the place, and she was slowly
crawling down, afraid, even at this early
hour of silence and darkness, of encoun
tering the warder himself, when the hour
of three, suddenly striking, sent such a
shrill and frightful din through her ears,
that almost at one vast step she bounded
to the bottom, and in a few moments
found herself in the store-room.
Prying into every nook and corner that
could contain a key, she at length, to her
great satisfaction and relief, found those
she sought, and, glad to get off in safety,
returned with them to her lady, who, in a
close and warm travelling dress, was anx
iously waiting for her.
Barbara carried the parcel and led the
way, and with an unsteady step Victoria
quitted the chamber that she fancied she
never should see again.
At
DE WILLENBERG, 37
At the top of the staircase she faltered:
it led down from a long gallery, at one
extremity of which was her father's apart
ment, and at the other that of her aunt;
adjoining which was the one where little
Henri Bertonville slept in peace and in
nocence. She could not reflect that she
was leaving the abode of all those so dear
to her without violent emotions of grief,
and leaning on the balustrade that ran
along one side of the gallery, she wept
bitterly. Until on the point of commit
ting the act, she had not conceived half
its magnitude—half its danger, and for
none other upon earth but Theodore
would she now have overstepped the bar
rier that discretion was at this moment
raising to oppose her. She longed to be
gone, yet had scarcely the power to force
herself away; she dreaded perils and acci
dents from the journey, but she dreaded
much more the possibility of being inter
cepted in her flight—being stopped, even
in the castle, by a domestic—still worse,
by
38 DE WILLENBERG.
by her father. Yet why fear this? surely
they could not know what she was now
about merely by instinct; they could not
dream of it, and if Barbara's tongue was
faithful, all was so far well. -
Partly from a hint the latter had thrown
out, another fearful probability then arose:
pursuit would undoubtedly be made after
her in every direction, and notwithstand
ing the seclusion of the convent whither
she was going, she could not help fearing
that the circumstance would reach the
ears of the lady abbess, who would, though
not till urged by compulsory measures, or
deeply-interested motives, give her up,
and expose her to general censure and ri
dicule. How was this to be guarded
against 2 There was but one expedient,
and that was to assume another name,
and invent some story that would render
the superior unsuspicious of her real name
and rank, and at the same time ensure
her admittance into the monastery.
Deception
DE willENBERG. 39
Deception in every shape was repug
mant to her, but this was one she was
compelled to, and at all events could only
affect herself. She was to give her name
as donna Clara de Manzilla, daughter of
don Jasper de Manzilla, a Spanish noble
man residing in Warsaw, and who hav
ing been about to unite her forcibly to a
man she disliked, had thus obliged her to
fly from her home, and seek an asylum
under the sacred roof of St. Agnes.
The clock, now chiming the half-hour,
warned them of the rapid flight of time,
and summoning all her resolution, Victo
ria followed her guide.
With almost noiseless steps, they hur
ried through the vestibule. Barbara trip
ped along with the lightness of an aerial
figure, while Victoria's every movement
was full of fear—the fear of being detected
in what her conscience whispered was not
- right,
40 DE WILLENIBERG,
right, and what her father would assuredly
disapprove of .
Barbara had quite subdued her usually
rebellious tongue, and having, with all pos
sible caution, drawn aside the massy locks
and bolts, and passed through the two
spacious courts, they at length found
themselves in the wood near Jerome's re
sidence.
Barbara advanced to the cottage, to be
speak what they required; and fortunate
ly the old man was just setting out, hav
ing one of the mules laden with his bas
kets, and another prepared for himself to
mount occasionally, as he might feel ne
cessitated by fatigue.
Having, with numerous cautions, and
as numerous digressions, imparted their
plan to him, as far as concerned himself,
she easily won him over as an auxiliary;
and
DE WILLENBERG, 41
and in a few minutes the mule was fully
accoutred for the use of our heroine, who,
pale and trembling, just then came up. .
. In forcing herself thus far from the cas
tle, the worst struggle was over; yet she
could not repress a fresh flow of tears, at
the moment of parting from her attached
servant. It seemed as if she was giving
up the last relic that reminded her of
home, and throwing herself on Barbara's
neck, they both wept abundantly; while
honest Jerome, soon comprehending the
sorrowful scene, was moved to tears also.
Alarmed lest, by their awakening him
to a knowledge of the whole plan, he
should be tempted to divulge it, they se
parated, after the affectionate Barbara had
poured a thousand blessings on her belov
ed lady. The latter, with all the forti
tude she could command, took her seat
upon the mule, and accompanying Je
rome, was soon lost among the trees, while
- the
42 DE WILLENBERG.
the former, still in tears, returned with
the same precautions to the castle, now
that Victoria was actually gone, regretting
seriously the part she had played. She
sought her bedroom, but her mind was in
too troubled a state to be easily lulled to
repose; and in praying for Victoria's safe
ty, and meditating over all the late oc
currences, she passed the dreary hours be
tween that and the time at which the do
mestics were accustomed to rise.
CHAP
... " : LLENBERG. 43.
CHAPTER II.
ºpºrºpºrºººººººº-º-º:
Thinking will make me mad. Why must I think,
When no thought brings me comfort? South ERN,
A DREADFUL presentiment, not exactly
of Victoria's flight, but of some new, some
tremendous shock that awaited her, flash
ed on the mind of madame Bertonville at
the instant she reached the corridor, and
beheld the door of her niece's chamber
wide open. She stood for a moment trans
fixed, and gasping for breath; but the
confirmation of her worst fears seeming
preferable to the agony she endured from
conjectures, the nature of which no reality
could exceed, she flew into the room; her
eyes rolled about in wild amazement, and
quite overcome, she sank almost inanimate
on the nearest seat. They were not the .
COIIl IIIQIM
44 DE WILLENBERG.
common emotions of surprise or fear that
had thus subdued her; the violence and
the suddenness of the blow had stunned
her, and thrown all her faculties into a
state almost of stupefaction, from which it
required the most powerful remedies to
arouse her.
The noise and bustle above summoned
the count, for none had courage enough to
tell such a father that his daughter, his
darling daughter, was missing. As he
rushed rapidly up the staircase, he heard
his sister's moans; he thought but of her;
and on entering the room, the crowd of
alarmed domestics that surrounded her,
prevented him, at the first moment, from
noticing that Victoria was not there.—“In
the name of Heaven, what means all this,
Matilda, and where—where is my child?”
he at length franticly demanded, while he
caught his sister's hand, and his whole
form shook with horrible apprehensions.
“The countess has been suddenly seized,
* * * my
DE WILLENBERG. 45
my lord,” replied one of the attendants,
perceiving madame Bertonville unable to
speak. -
“And where is my daughter?” reite
rated the count, turning his frenzied eye
on the terrified domestic; “instantly
speak!” he added, in a voice like thunder.
Poor Annette was so completely over
powered that she could not speak, and
again he put the same interrogatory to his
sister, in so vehement a tone, that it ap
peared to recall her fleeting senses—
“Where is my child 2"
“We know not,” was the countess's
nearly-inaudible reply.
“Know not l” he echoed, starting for
an instant upon his feet with the velocity
of lightning, whose fire seemed to flash
from his eyes. Not another sound escaped
his quivering lips, but convulsively clasp
ing his hands, he fell prostrate and motion
less on the floor.
To restore the afflicted father to anima
tion,
46 IDE WILLENBERG.
tion, was all that could now be done, and
even that seemed cruelty; for insensibility
was an enviable state, compared to that of
being able to comprehend the full extent
of this dire calamity. The shock however
appeared, after a while, to have given a
maddening energy to all his faculties.
He thought, spoke, and acted at the same
moment, and with the same ungovernable
rapidity; and his thoughts, speech, and ac
tions, had apparently thrown off all con
trol of reason. Equally unreasonable and
absurd would it have been to attempt to
sooth him into composure by argument;
and convinced of this, they left Nature to
herself,knowing that she and Reason would
in time resume their proper functions.
In the interim, madame Bertonville was
carried to bed, alarmingly ill. The unfor
tunate occurrences of the last few days
had been gradually preying on her natu
rally-delicate health, and had now taken so
fast hold upon it, that she quickly sank
- into
IDE WILLENBERG. 47
into a low nervous fever, from whose de
bilitating effects serious apprehensions
were entertained of a fatal result, and an
eminent physician was sent for immedi
ately to attend her.
Ever since the report of the awful mur
der of his master—a master he had almost
adored, the inconsolable Conrad had kept
himself closely immured, where he could,
uninterrupted and unwitnessed, give full
vent to the grief of his bursting heart.
This was the first cause of real sorrow he
had ever known. It was not De Willen
berg's liberality that had endeared him to
him; for, alas ! until very lately, his pecu
niary means had been too limited to allow
him to deal out money unsparingly; but it
was the magnanimity, the nobleness, the
kindness, and the genuine goodness of his
nature, which shone in every action of his
life, and which had more effectually won
his affection than the bestowal of the most
brilliant gifts could have done. What an
." agonizing
48 DE WILLENBERG.
agonizing task then had he now before
him, to seek that master's corpse—to find it
probably lacerated, mangled by the ruth
less hands of savage banditti—the stream
that had lately given life, health, and
beauty to it, now pouring in red torrents
over the unhallowed ground that those
abandoned wretches trod His blood al
most froze in his veins—his very soul grew
sick with horror at the picture his fancy
drew; but however appalling was such a
task, it was a duty that he deemed himself
bound to perform, and which, with count
Herman's sanction, he resolved on.
The count, in fact, intended to have an
immediate and diligent search made for
the body, by a band of his vassals, and
the peasantry on his estate; after which,
it was his determination to have a petition
presented to the king, praying that the fo
rest might be entirely hewn down, and the
whole race of its diabolical inhabitants ex
terminated.
Conrad
DE WILLENBERG. 49
Conrad having, as well as he could, pre
pared himself to join the rest in exploring
the forest, proceeded to the little apart
ment where Barbara usually sat, to bid
her a short adieu before his departure.
He had ere now acknowledged thepower
of love, and felt that it has generally the
same influence upon the heart of the hum
ble, as upon that of the high-born, that it
knows no distinction of persons, and that
the charms of a brisk, lively young girl,
with a smart figure, and a tolerable face,
were never intended to be merely for show.
Nature, indeed, had given him a heart
more capable of experiencing the tender
passion than many who profess it; added
to which, a person by no means ordinary,
and a face handsome and intelligent, very
soon recommended him to Barbara's good
graces, and thence to her affections. He
had won them—had, with his master's and
lady Victoria's permission, offered her his
hand,and with success; they were to have
WOL. II. D been
50 DE WILLENBERG.
been united in a few days, when the
events we have related interrupted the ge
neral harmony.
Not finding her in the work-room, he
sat down to await her coming, and entered
into a long soliloquy on the past and the
present circumstances. –“ Never, never
shall I be myself again.” said he, with a
sigh, that seemed to breathe forth the last
ray of departing hope. “The whole house
is turned upside down. It was not enough
for my dear young master to be cruelly,
barbarously murdered; but there is the
lady Victoria gone off, nobody knows
where; and who can tell what she may
have done with herself? Heaven preserve
her from harm —I have no heart to do any
thing, and how shall I ever have the heart
to go in search of my master's lifeless body?
Little I thought, when he came here, the
finest cavalier in all Poland, that I should
now have to fetch him home a corpse!
and to go too without knowing whether
lady
DE WILLENBERG. 51
lady Victoria is dead or alive!—worse and
worse!” -
With a countenance full of woe, and
plainly evincing that some dire disaster
had befallen her, Barbara now came in.
Her ear had caught his last words, and in
a voice of mingled terror and vexation,
she echoed them.—“Ay,” said she, “you
may well say, “worse and worse; there
have I been worrited about this whole
blessed morning by my lord, with old Reu
ben, hunting all the horseponds and the
fishponds, and St. Agnes knows where, for
lady Victoria, as if she was fool enough to
drown herself, forsooth'—a likely thing
indeed! But I knew better — ‘life is
sweet, as the proverb says. The worst
of the story is, I saw the count himself
through the trees, coming towards us, and
so I then pretended to be very busy look
ing for my young lady in the great pond;
but, as ill luck would have it, I stretched
out my neck too far, and plump I tumbled
into the water.”
D 2 “I fancy
52 . DE WILLENBERG.
“I fancy that cooled your courage a lit
tle,” observed Conrad, checking a faint .
smile, as if it mocked his grief.
At this unlucky speech Barbara haugh
tily drew up her head, screwed her mouth
into the strongest expression of contempt
she could put on, and scornfully throwing
her eyes sideways at him—“I am sure, Mr.
Conrad,” said she, “ you are cool enough
about my misfortunes. I did not think you
would speak so; but I see it is not all gold
that glitters—you are a very hard-hearted
young man, so you are. Hot as love is,
soon it is cooled, that is plain enough.”
“No, Barbara,” he mournfully replied,
“I hope I am not hard-hearted. I can
and do feel as I ought for the loss of my
excellent master; and as to lady Victoria,
I would almost rather know at once she
was dead than be in such uncertainty about
her.” - -
“Humph!” cried Barbara, with a signi
ficant toss of her head, and in a voice that
declared
DE WILLENBERG, 53
i
declared she was far from being in a good
humour, though in a talkative one, “I
am sure she is very much obliged to you—
I dare say that is more than she wishes
herself. But blind men cannot judge of
colours.”
“Do you then know where she is 2" he
demanded, hope for a moment crimsoning
his features; “if you do, for the love of
God, say so, and let me hasten to inform
the coun 92 -
“Nay, not so fast,” she interrupted;
“keep your breath to cool your porridge.
How should I know? I would not tell
you whether she is dead or alive for the
whole world; she would never forgive me
if I did; so “ask me no questions, and I
will tell you no lies, as the saying is.”
Barbara'svolubility made hercompletely
forgetful of herself, and the torrent of in
consistencies she was uttering; but it was
now quite evident to Conrad that she had
been accessary to Victoria's flight, and
knew her retreat, which he hoped, by a
D 3 little
54 DE WILLENBERG.
little clever manoeuvring, to discover.—
“I do not know how it is, Barbara,” said he,
“but I do think, somehow or another, that
her father need not be so distracted about
her; I warrant she will take care of herself
wherever she is. What do you think?”
“Parbleu ! I did not say that she was
alive—I only said I would not tell you
where she is gone, nor I will not neither.
—No, no; I am not one of your babblers;
“you cannot catch an old bird with chaff.”
“I have caught you, at all events,”
thought Conrad, “and I will keep you
fast till I find all out. But from whatyou
said, I think she is alive and safe, thank
Heaven" - -
“But I know better; she is dead by
this time,” cried his determined oppo
ment, vehemently. “I think going to a
convent is enough to kill any body.”
A little more, and all would be revealed.
Conrad had gained the advantage, and he
pursued it.—“Now, Barbara,” said he, “I
fancy you are only bragging a little, and
that
nE will ENBERG. 55
that you know nothing at all about her;
for I would lay my life there is not a con
vent in this part of the country.”
“Bragging indeed!” exclaimed the an
gry waiting-maid, flinging herself on a
chair, not very gently; “I am not one of
your braggers, Mr. Conrad. I would have
you to know, sir, there is the convent of
St. Agnes within three leagues of this.
But do not think to pump the secret out
of me; I will let you see I am no bragger,
nor tattler either.”
He had, however, pumped so much of
the truth out of her, and the colour alter
mately rose to his cheeks and disappeared,
as his thoughts at one moment rested on
his murdered master, and the next on Vic
toria, convinced that she was at least in
safety; but he had yet more to learn, and
therefore strove to veil his curiosity under
an appearance of incredulity—“Nay,”
continued he, “I can hardly believe this;
you must be mistaken, at least about the
convent of St. Agnes you talk of; I never
D 4 heard
56 DE WILLENBERG.
heard of it; besides, I am certain she
would not venture into one; why, her
very name would betray her. You must
be wrong, in spite of all you can say to
the contrary.”
Rage, at having her word thus appa
rently doubted, now hurried her quite be
yond herself; and totally unable to con
trol her tongue—“I tell you, sir,” cried
she, “she is gone to the convent of St.
Agnes; and what is more, I saw her go;
and as to a name, Mr. Conrad, there are
more names than one in the world; I be
lieve donna Clara de Manzilla is a name, as
well as lady Victoria Herman.”
The whole secret was now told, and
Barbara at first seemingly unconscious
that she had betrayed it; but quickly re
collecting her indiscretion, she owned it;
and bursting into tears, entreated, that
even to appease or sooth the count's alarms,
he would not divulge her young lady's
place of retreat. To this Conrad gave a
reluctant
DE WILLENBERG. 57
reluctant consent; he had intended to car
ry the intelligence to his lordship imme
diately, but now changed his mind to a
plan he deemed more prudent.
On his way to the forest, he meant to
call at the convent of St. Agnes, and make
such inquiries as would ascertain if lady
Victoria were really there; and having
perfectly satisfied himself that she was, to
impart the joyful tidings to her father, as
soon as he should return to the castle.
Having yielded her a sort of conditional
promise of secrecy, he now joined the
band of armed vassals that were assembled
in the court, and set out with them on
their perilous journey to the forest, while
several others proceeded,in different routes,
in search of the lady Victoria.
Not a shadow of suspicion had entered
the count's mind of her having gone to a
monastery; he thought it likely, if she
D 5 Were
58 I).E WILLENBERG.
were still living, that she had procured
some conveyance to Warsaw, or, more
probably, to Zersk, where the letter an
nounced that Theodore had gone, in the
vain expectation that she should find him
yet in safety, for he was not aware that
the report of his fall by a murderer's hand
had reached her also.
Hope, that solace to our woes—that
balm to our griefs—that ministering angel
that descends upon our hearts in the midst
of their bitterest sorrows, like a brilliant
gleam of sunshine breaking through the
murkiest clouds of winter, did not totally
desert the count; sad and gloomy even as
was the horizon of the present prospect, a
cheerful ray at intervals broke in upon it,
which, however, often rendered the dark
ness that succeeded it more profound.
Returning to the saloon, after seeing
them depart, he met Henri Bertonville
in the vestibule, sobbing most piteously,
and
DE WILLENBERG. 59
and hastening in the direction of his mo
ther's apartment, as fast as his tears, which
streamed abundantly down his cheeks,
would permit him to discern the way. He
had but just returned from his customary
morning excursion on his pony, and the
countess's indisposition, with the cause of
it, having been inadvertently imparted to
him by the ever-talking Barbara, the af.
fectionate boy was flying to her, when,
meeting the count, he suddenly stopped
—“Oh, tell me, tell me, my dear uncle,”
said he, “what ails my beloved mamma?
—and who has taken away cousin Victo
ria?—and where is our dear 22
Theodore, he would have added; but
quickening sobs prevented his uttering it;
and he hid his face against one of the pil
lars that supported the roof– “Do not
grieve so, my sweet child,” said the count,
as he took him. in his arms, and tried to
do for him what he could not do for him
self—to console him. “Your amiable
mother will be better presently, I trust,
D 6. my
60 DE WILLENBERG.
my love; and your cousin—oh, my child,
my child »
He was about to say they might never
see her again, but he could not finish the
sentence; and agitated almost to suffoca
tion, by endeavouring to overcome his
tears, he darted, with Henri, into the sa
loon, and threw himself on the sofa, in all
his former wildness and anguish—“Does
some horrific dream delude my senses?”
cried he, pressing his hand upon his fore
head, whose violent throbbing gave a fe.
verish hue to his whole face. “Can such
calamities—such unparalleled afflictions,
be really the lot of one poor individual?—
does some charm or potent spell bind up
my faculties, that I perceive not the rea
lity? Yet, no; surely I feel that my
senses are awake—all is as I see. Oh,
Theodore, thou darling of my hopes, the
ornament of all societies that courted thee,
swept thus from a world thy very name
adorned—by an assassin's hand too! My
daughter gone! she on whose glowing
loveliness
DE WILLENBERG. 61
loveliness my very soul gazed with rap
ture, gone from me, I know not how or
whither! It is—it is too much;” and co
vering his eyes with his handkerchief, he
continued to weep with the yet-sobbing
Henri.
Doctor Wernheim, who had been sent
for to see madame Bertonville, now came
in, saying that there was no longer any
actual danger to be apprehended from her
ladyship's disorder, as some efficient re
medies had been resorted to ; but she was
in that low state that required she should
be kept perfectly quiet, and nothing what
ever permitted to disturb her; even the
count's presence in her apartment was
strictly prohibited; and Henri being, of
course, included in the general interdict,
was reluctantly obliged to content himself,
for the present, with the doctor's favour.
able account: he then repaired to impart
the news of his mother's amendment to
the
62 DE WILLENBERG.
the favourite attendant, who took care of
his pony, and left the count and Wern
heim conversing together on domestic sub
jects.
The noise of a carriage driving through
the lawn attracted their attention, and,
presently afterwards a servant entered, an
nouncing the arrival of the duke of Si
lesia, who was just alighting from his car
riage.
At such a time as this, the count would
gladly have dispensed with the honour;
but it being contrary to court etiquette to
decline a visit from any member of the
royal family, he was unwillingly obliged
to go through the irksome ceremonial of
receiving him, and accordingly desired
that the major-domo would usher his royal
highness up.
Doctor Wernheim now politely took
his
DE WILLENBERG. 63.
his leave, promising to call again on the
following day; and the count, as well as
circumstances would permit, prepared to
receive his illustrious visitor.
CHAP.
64 DE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER III.
----------
Yet must I think less wildly; I have thought
Too long and darkly, till my brain became,
In its own eddy, boiling and o'erwrought,
A whirling gulf of fantasy and flame.
Childe Harold, Canto III.
THE olive-branch of peace still decorated
the Polish brows, wreathed around them
by the fluctuating hand of war, which had
wrested from their enemies the proud
standard of their liberties, and for a while
hailed them again the victors.
A long succession of hostilities and
broils with the surrounding states being
at length suspended, unhappily not yet
terminated, by the wise policy and theju
dicious arrangements of Augustus, he had
the
DE WILLENBERG. 65
the gratification of beholding his people
now in comparative happiness and con
tentment. He was happy too himself,
for he knew all his subjects to be faithfully
and ardently attached both to his own per
son, and to the great cause of liberty in
which he had been so long engaged; the
name of Augustus, their beloved sove
reign, was repeated, everywhere through
out his dominions, with all the respect
and admiration it deserved; and every
Pole, those farthest removed from, as well
as those nearest to the royal presence,
strove by some means to testify his loyalty
and affection to so excellent a monarch.
At leisure now, in the bosoms of their
families, to contemplate objects hitherto
of minor importance, it became a matter of
thought,nay,ofinterest,to thewhole nation,
that the king should marry, to perpetuate
his illustrious name, and they trusted also,
his actions; and that in doing so, he should
choose
66 DE WILLENBERG.
choose a lady worthy of him in virtues, in
accomplishments, and in rank.
Several princesses were named to him,
as matches in every respect eligible; but
most of those he absolutely and openly,
and all of them he secretly protested
against. He had seen the woman, the
only woman with whom he thought he
could be happy; but she was not of royal,
though of noble birth; and this circum
stance threw a gloom for a while over the
delightful prospect of sharing the honours
of his exalted station with a wife. After
some reflection, however, he had men
tioned to one of his confidential ministers
the name of the lady who had captivated
him, and against whom, as his future
queen, he hoped the ardency of his love
for her would do away every objection
that might be made.
The premier not only approved of his
majesty's
IDE WILLENBERG, 67
majesty's choice, but advised him, should
it also meet the approbation of the other
ministers, that a deputation should wait
upon count Herman, formally demanding
the hand of his daughter in marriage.
It was however his majesty's wish, that
before the honour he intended to the lady
Victoria should be thus publicly announ
ced, the count should be privately ap
prised of it; for which purpose, the duke
of Silesia being, next to the sovereign, the
highest individual at present in the king
dom, seemed the fittest personage to be
employed on an occasion so momentous.
Accordingly the matter had been con
fined entirely to the cabinet—not a word
had transpired beyond it; and the king,
having had an interview with his brother
on the same subject before, now summoned
him, to give him final instructions as to his
mission. To those instructions Leopold
promised implicit fidelity, and spoke san
guinely
68 DE WILLENBERG,
guinely of his majesty's success, while his
heart was secretly a traitor to the cause.
He succeeded however in deceiving the
king, by an assurance of his zeal; and
leaving him in full reliance on his pre
tended sincerity, he set out for the castle,
not to sue in behalf of his brother, but of
himself. -
Even the proud, the adamantine heart
of Leopold had at length been softened
into all the tenderness of love; but it was
by no means softened altogether—there
were other parts of that heart still influ
enced by other passions; the same being
who could feel the most glowing affection
for one object, could also cherish in his bo
som the most rancorous enmity towards
another, and that other was De Willen
berg.
With all his faults, his failings, and his
vices, Leopold was not actually naturally
depraved, nor hardened against some of
the
DE WILLENBERG. 69
the finer touches that virtue makes upon
the human heart. Initiated into the po
licies, intrigues, and dangerous habits of
a court, he was early in life trained to
imbibe its infatuating prejudices, and
through those prejudices to view mankind.
If a few virtues did lurk in his disposition,
they lay there dormant and unemployed;
they were of that passive description that
nothing ever called into action; happy had
it been for him if his other qualities had
been equally passive. He was one of
those who do not often deliberately and
from principle rush upon crime; but if
temptation presented itself, he resisted it
not. Instead of rousing all his energies
to repel its advances, he calmly awaited
its approach, and as calmly suffered it to
lead him where it would
Still however he had lived in a state
of comparative purity of thought and ac
tion, until he beheld Victoria, the one
destined, though innocently, to plunge
him.
70 DE WILLENBERG.
him into guilt of the deepest dye. Al
most at the first moment of seeing, he
loved her; such a woman as a wife, he
thought would be all the world to him;
and an idea very soon fixed itself on his
mind, that he could, after some difficulty,
obtain her. But difficulties indeed there
were; the king's passion for her was the
chief one; yet this and all others he re
solved to encounter, for Victoria was, in
his opinion, worth every risk. Her love
for De Willenberg, and the count's de
clared intention of uniting them, seemed
at first a barrier to his hopes, as formid
able as the sovereign's intimation of his
design—a barrier too at which he had,
at the moment of perceiving it, started in
such confusion as had nearly betrayed
him. He retreated for a while, to reflect
how he could most effectually set it aside;
and having quickly hit upon the means,
he now came fully prepared to combat
any other obstacle he might meet.
His
DE WILLENBERG. 71
His countenance wore a well-feigned
expression of sadness as he entered the sa:
loon, from which the count inferred that
he either guessed, or had been already in
formed, of what had happened; too well
indeed Leopold knew that De Willenberg
was not there, but Victoria's flight was a
thing he had yet to hear of “I pray
your highness to be seated,” said his lord
ship, hospitality trying to smile through
his half-repressed tears, while he exerted
himself to go through the respectful forms
that Leopold's rank demanded. “Oh,
duke! heavy and direful are the calamities
it pleased Heaven to pour upon me since
last we met, but it was Heaven sent them,
and I must submit. I have been too
happy hitherto, but mortal must not be
so; he must be reminded of his depend
ence on a higher Power—the Divine Will!.
Alas! I am ill prepared to receive your
highness as I ought 33
“Nay, nay, my lord,” interrupted the
duke,
72 DE WILLENBERG.
duke, “a truce with etiquette! Believe
me, I hold your grief too sacred to be
mocked by any outward display of pomp
and ceremony, from which your heart
must revolt. I have heard of the untime
ly fate of my amiable young friend, and
am come to condole with you on the
death of one who was so dear to you, not
to have my cheeks covered with burning
blushes by gorgeous formalities, that suit
not the time nor the occasion.”
“ His fate" reiterated the count—
“Duke, it is not only his fate I have to
deplore, but the fate of one even dearer to
me—my daughter!—ay, my very daugh
ter has left me! cruelly—cruelly fled me!
... Oh! it will break my heart! this is fate's
tº decisive blow—I feel that I cannot sur
vive her death, if—”
'*Gracious Providence! what says your
lordship?” demanded the duke, involun
tarily grasping the count's arm, and all the
agony of sudden, dreadful disappointment
to his hopes distorting his features; “the
ſº . . . lady
; ::, … ; : *
- -, *, *.
DE WILLENBERG. 73
lady Victoria fled! said you—can it be
possible?” -
“I expected not my deathblow from
her,” stammered the count, through the
tears that still flowed, in spite of his ex
ertions—“from my child—I deserved it
not, but she has given it—she is gone, I
fear for ever; all search for her has hither
to been in vain.”
As he said this, his hand warmly pressed
the duke's, for he misconstrued his emo
tion into sympathy and pity.
“This is indeed the very climax of
earthly suffering !” exclaimed Leopold, in
a-voice as agitated as the count's; “but,
my lord, have you no idea where she may
possibly be?”
“Oh, dukeſ I have but conjectures,
shadows—horrible shadows to rest on; all
within me is anarchy and madness; ever
since her flight, ten thousand thoughts,
wild and improbable, have flitted through
WOL. II. IE my
74 DE WILLENBERG.
my distracted brain. I fancied her seeking
in her despair her lover's mangled corpse;
sometimes I have thought her dead—hea
vens ! what a thought ! self-immolated —
then again. I have thought her (live I to
say it?)—thought my child deranged all
this I have fancied. I have had such
strange—such terrible ideas, that I dare
think no longer; but 'tis best we quit this
subject for a while—it too greatly moves
your highness; pray you, duke, let it not
affect you thus deeply—how fares it with
the king, your royal brother?”
“Indifferently indeed, my lord,” sighed
Leopold; “the death of young De Wil
lenberg, even one whom he knew not,
has scasibly affected him; but I trust the
bustle of state affairs by which he is sur
rounded, and which alone prevented him
from visiting you on the melancholy oc
casion, will rouse him from his grief.
Alas! I know not how to bring him this
additional intelligence of your daughter.”
“We must—we must quit this theme,
duke;
DE willENBERG. 75
duke; it is distressing to you,” again ur
ged the count. -
“It is a sad and sorrowful one, my lord,
but too well does it now accord with me;
any other subject would be irksome, and
on any other you could not converse calm
ly; a military life, nor scenes of warfare
and bloodshed, have not so changed my
nature, that I could hear such things as
these with callous unsympathizing indif.
ference.”
- The count was indeed inadequate to
any other topic, and Leopold's pathetic
tones were grateful to his ear and to his
heart.—“Duke,” said he, “you can read
my very inward feelings, yet I could not
have hoped for such condescending kind
ness from one of your highness's rank.”
“Talk not of rank, count—it is a mere
sound—Nature herself disowns such a
thing; you have my friendship—I would,
in return, have yours.”
“Yours, duke, it has long been; by
me the friendship of my sovereign's bro
E 2 ther
->
76 DE WILLENBERG.
ther must be prized; and could any thing
short of my child's restoration make me
happy, it would be that.”
. The wily Leopold saw that he was now
gaining ground, and he boldly advanced,
but with all his usual wariness.-" Even
a sovereign's brother,” he replied, “is
proud to stand thus high in the esteem
of count Herman—yes, my lord, may I
ever prove worthy of your esteem—nay,
more—I would not only be your friend—
I would, if possible, bear a higher title—
a title far dearer to me.”
“That is not possible,” said the count,
not divining what was to come; “you are
at the very summit of my esteem now,
and nothing can raise you higher.”
“One thing could, my lord; it were
greater to bear the title of your son.”
“My son " repeated the astonished
count, incredulity at first superseding
every other expression in his countenance
—“Silesia's royal duke my son! but it is
your highness's pleasure to jest with my
SOrrows;
DE WILLENBERG. 77
sorrows; would that the time were more
appropriate to your bantering" he added,
with some asperity. * ...
“Count Herman, you mistake me,”
said the duke, seriously; “if I could wan
tonly sport with these your noblest feel
ings—feelings that the proudest monarch
might make his boast, I were a wretch,
sunk far beneath the dignity of man—
much less of him you call Silesia's duke.
Hear me repeat it—I would be your son
—ay, marry your daughter, the lady
Victoria.” - -
' A look that spoke all he felt was the
only way in which the agitated count
could at first reply; gasping with emotion,
he fixed his deep-searching eyes intently
on him, and snatching his hand—“Duke,”
cried he, “what—what does all this im
ply? know you aught of my child?—say
instantly where she is, and if she does live
—drive me not mad by this hesitation.”
“Would to Heaven I did know, and
E 3 could
78 DE WILLENBERG.
could inform you now; but I will seek her,
and **
“No more—no more of this,” sobbed
the heart-rived father, almost dashing
Leopold's hand from him, “you but re
mind me that I have no daughter—it is
unfeeling, cruel—it is too true, I have not
a daughter now, but I must be resigned;”
and with a handkerchief he swept away
his tears.
“For worlds, my lord, I would not
basely aggravate your sufferings; but I
beseech you, despair not thus; it is possi.
ble—may, it is probable, that lady Victoria
lives, and is in safety; if this world still
contains her, I will find her, though all the
elements of nature should exert their
united fury to oppose me.”
“May Heaven reward and bless you!”
was all the count could for a while articu
late. Hope once more shone brightly
over his features as he continued—“You
, know not the feelings ofjoy you have re--
- vived
IDE WILLENBERG. 79
vived within me; were I sure of her being
in safety, it were happiness—bliss!”
“And to see her, my lord?”
“Oh, felicity unutterable!” exclaimed
the count, his words and his whole face
animated as if he clasped her at that mo
ment to his bosom.
“If I range the whole circuit of the
universe, I will bring her back to your pa
ternal embrace. Then, count, will you
reward me?” asked Leopold, with an in
sinuating softness that he imagined irre
sistible.
“What recompence dare I offer your
highness, for a service above all price in
human power to give?”
“Promise me your daughter's hand?
that is the highest reward mortal can give
me, and it is the one I claim; say that she
shall be my wife—ay, Silesia's royal
duchess, and within this very hour I will
depart in search of her. -
The count hesitated—the hope of hav
ing his daughter restored to him, the
E 4 dread
80 DE WILLENBERG.
dread of making a rash promise, and re
luctance to say any thing that the duke
could take umbrage at, were powerfully
contending with each other; but rectitude
was ever his guide, and he replied with
firmness—“If Nature had sown the seeds
of ambition within this bosom, duke, sure
ly they would now vegetate in all the ex
uberance that ever baneful passion did
through the heart of man. I confess the
thought of being allied to royalty might
overcome stronger principles than mine;
but if my Victoria lives, think what she
would say, had I rashly promised to wed
her to another, and before the first, per
haps the only one who can possess her
affections (her beloved Theodore), was laid
in his cold grave.” - -
“Pardon me, count, for saying that I
think such an argument borders on sophis
try; surely the lady Victoria will not ro
mantically continue to love an ideal ob
ject—nay, if she did, it were your part to
combat—to subdue such a weakness in
her.
DE WILLENBERG. 81
her. The man who loves his children as
a father ought will study first their welfare
—that once decided, let him then humour
their caprices if he thinks proper.”
“My daughter's welfare, duke, is a
thing I never have been—never could be
indifferent to; nor should a virtuous pas
sion like hers be termed romantic. Theo
dore de Willenberg was worthy of her
love; he was my choice as well as hers,
and as long as his memory exists, we must
revere it.” -.
“Heaven forbid,” said this wily serpent,
“that I should be the one to prejudice
either of you against De Willenberg; he
was your choice, I knew; he was a fasci
nating, and in several respects an amiable
young man; and one of the most convin
cing proofs of his merit is his having been
also the choice of another.”
This was a master-stroke; he saw the
count instantly turn pale at the supposi
tion that Theodore might have deceived
- - E 5 him—
82 DE WILLENBERG.
him—have loved another besides his
daughter.
We are often prone to doubt even the
object most dear to us; selfish in our at
tachments, we expect the undivided love
of those to whom we are attached, and
the merest trifles will often excite our
most torturing jealousies and fears.
Such was the case with count Herman,
whose mind was unfortunately too much
inclined to receive impressions of that na
ture.—“I have sometimes fancied 22
He faltered, and a fearful pause ensued.—
“Who is that other?” he vehemently de
manded, and an unusual fierceness shot
from his dark eyes. “Knew your high
ness aught of De Willenberg's heart that
I did not know? did he confide to you
the secret that he dared to hide from me—
his passion for another?”
“Nay, nay, my lord, I meant not to
alarm you thus,” he answered, in an as
sumed
IDE WILLEN13ERG. 83
sumed voice of gentleness; “ my un
guarded tongue often nearly betrays me
into things I would shrink from uttering.”
He knew this artful reply was exactly
calculated to excite further suspicion of
Theodore's fidelity, and to elicit further
interrogation; and wrapt securely in his
accustomed plausibility, he awaited it.
“Duke, your words to me are dark and
mysterious; I entreat your highness to
explain them; while they are thus ambi
guous, they throw a shade over the charac
ter of De Willenberg, which I fain would
have removed—say then, at once, were
his affections devoted to another, while he
presumed, insultingly dared, to profess an
attachment to my daughter?”
“Truly, my lord, you impose an awk
ward task on me; it were better that this
affair should rest in silence—therefore do.
not urge me further; more than I have
said might be displeasing to you;” but it
was far from Leopold's intention to stop
here. -
E 6 “ Think
84 DE WILLENE ERG.
“Think you, my royal friend, that I
am made of such irascible and fiery stuff,
that the breath even of an ungentle word
would blow me into flame? Fear not to
tell me all, for I anticipate it.”
With seeming reluctance to obey, the
duke now ingeniously stammered out a
few execrations on his indiscretion; but
he soon found an excuse for carrying that
indiscretion still further, and, with all the
grave solemnity he could collect into his
variable features, he proceeded—“I knew
your lordship's partiality to De Willem
berg, and I feared you would pronounce
me officious or unfriendly, had I ventured
to interfere on the subject of his marriage
with your daughter, or told of things un
pleasant and unasked for. Yet think not
that I should have passively witnessed
his intended perfidy—think not that I
would have let you sacrifice your child
—that I would silently have allowed
De Willenberg to play the villain, by
giving his hand to her, while his heart,
- the
DE WILLENBERG. 85.
the dearest part of our mortal frame, was
the property of another. No, my lord,
in pity to him—aware of the disgrace that
such a discovery must have heaped upon
him, and still more, withheld by the hope
that he would magnanimously retract,
while yet in his power, I exposed him not
while living; nor should I have done so,
until his proceeding to an actual union
with lady Victoria would have rendered
my disclosing it a matter of obligation
and of honour. I do not mean to assert
that to such an extremity he would have
carried his guilt; but, my lord, rank and
wealth have potent charms in the eyes of
poor frail Humanity; and De Willenberg,
with all his fascinations, was like the rest
of us—a mere erring mortal. He might,
in an unguarded hour, have done what
he would afterwards at leisure repent—
what would have covered him with igno
miny, shame, and endless remorse—made
the woman he loved a suicide, your daugh
ter
86 DE WILLENBERG.
ter for ever miserable, and himself a vil
laim "
“Thank Heaven—thank Heaven!” eja
culated the count, fervently, “he has es
caped the guilt, and we the bitter anguish
that would have ensued. Oh, did ever I
think this, that I should have cause to
rejoice at the death of him I loved! But
who, who,” he cried, clasping his hands
in anguish almost as acute, “who could
have suspected all this, beneath the mask
ofinnocence and integrity he wore?—none.
Oh, inscrutable Providence that willed
his death in time to save him from such a
gulf of hideous crime as a few days more
had plunged him into—to preserve my
child from lasting wretchedness. Un
grateful, cruel Theodore! to use such arts,
such soft seducing blandishments, to win
our love, and having won it, thus to fling
it from you! No, we deserved not that,
serpent-like, you should thus have pointed
a sting, to wound the bosoms of the very
ones who fostered you.” -
The
DE WILLEN13ERG. 87
The poison had now taken root, and, as
even the rankest weeds require an occa
sional gleam of sunshine to maturate their
venom, so this skilful hypocrite knew that
the one he had just planted in the count's
bosom required a kindlier ray now than
had hitherto beamed through his mis
chievous plot, to bring it to perfection.—
“I pray you, my lord,” said he, “treat
it more lightly—let it not subdue your
manly fortitude; we have all our faults
and crimes, and poor De Willenberg has
by his death surely more than atoned for
his. Peace to the memory of my unfor
tunate young friend"
“Peace indeed to his memory, though
guilty!” reiterated the count. “No, duke,
I cannot help being saddened, mortified,
by such a discovery, even now; were he
living, I would not tamely bear it—it was
an insult to my dignity, and my daugh
ter's; her sex at least should have screened
her from it, if her rank and her virtues
could
88 DE WILLENBERG.
could not; but he has paid a dreadful for
feit—be that, as you say, his atonement;
we will think of him no longer.”
“But with due indulgence for human
frailty,” added Leopold,judiciously; “with
pity for his failings and his fate, and, as
suredly, count, with admiration of the
many brilliant, many endearing qualities,
that, with all his failings, he did really
possess.”
“He did—he did certainly possess them,”
cried the count, still willing to talk of one
he had so highly estimated. “Oh, princeſ
it is agonizing to know those we love un
worthy. I regarded Theodore with all
a father's affection; ere reason had yet
dawned over his infant mind, I nursed him;
as he and my sweet Victoria sat face to
face crowing in my arms, how often have
they twined in fond innocence their little
hands, seeming to say, in their mute elo
quence, that hearts which love had joined
in infancy should not in age be sundered
But
DE willENBERG. 89
But the delusions of youth are over with
them now, and I too must forget them,
as had they never been.”
“How often, my lord, do we see the
fair pictures youthful attachments present,
faded, in the midst of all their brightness,
by some withering blast ! how often too
by absence, that direst bane to love!”
“Would that it had proved a bane to
my Victoria's—that it had withered hers,
while it was yet in the bud! would to
God that she had never loved, never seen
the too-attractive Theodore then, then
had I not now been childless.”
“Nor are you so, my friend; have I not
said I would restore her to you? my very
life would I risk to do so. But, my lord,
we have wandered from the point where
all my affections are centered—the subject,
dearest to my thoughts; on it alone they
delight to dwell: dare I hope that Vic
toria will be mine—that your lordship will
sanction my suit? Oh! by one word bid
Iſle
90 DE WILLENBERG.
me to hope this, and I shall be the happi
est of mortals.”
“In truth, duke, I hardly know how
I ought to answer—a proposal of this na
ture from your highness might dazzleambi
tion itself; yet it is not the gorgeous pomp
of royalty—it is not your rank as a prince
that influences me; but I will venture to
reply. Your highness has volunteered to
seek her—I pray Heaven you may suc
ceed! if Heaven does grant my prayer,
and you do indeed find her, be it yours
to achieve the conquest of her heart, ob
tain her consent to become your wife,
duke, and you have mine.”
Leopold had now reached the first vast
step towards the attainment of his object;
he saw that his footing on it was firm,
and having got thus far in safety, he could
view the terrible height to which he had
yet to climb with less fear of failing, and
less and less apprehension of personal
danger. Judging it impolitic to delay, he
therefore
DE WILLENBERG. 91
therefore boldly advanced; the real joy
and delight that this assurance of the
count's inspired him with, gave even to his
ardent expressions an air of sincerity that
completely baffled the other's discernment;
he poured out a profusion of thanks, and
all the encomiums upon Victoria that could
gratify a fond father's pride. He had
wound himself completely into the count's
good opinion, and he undauntedly pro
ceeded—“One thing more, my lord, I
have to solicit—it is my last, my most
earnest request—let not any part of this
conversation transpire; delicacy alone re
quires that it should be kept a secret, but,
of all others, I would not that the king
should know it.”
This was indeed his most earnest re
quest, and there was something in the
latter part of the injunction that startled
the count.—“And why such particular
secrecy towards the king?” demanded his
lordship; “think you that his majesty would
But I had forgotten, duke—I have
been
92 DE WILLENBERG.
been rash, precipitate, culpable in this af.
fair—I pray your highness's permission
to retract the imprudent, the dangerous
promise, our enthusiasm hurried me into.
Consider, duke, your elevated station in
society, your close affinity to the illustri
ous sovereign of Poland, and dismiss the
romantic idea of making my daughter
your wife; oh, palpable absurdity think
no more of it—it must not be.”
“My lord, my lord, do you now bid
me think no more of her? As reasonably
might I bid you forget her for ever, and
as readily would you obey me. Have I
not your word, count Herman, to sanction
my union with her, if she herself consents?
and is not your word a bond inviolable?
By Heaven! I never will give up the
thought until her own lips put a negative
upon my sanguine hopes; but to the fact
which has thus misled you, and which,
when explained, will instantly end your
objections—far from deeming your daugh
ter unworthy of royal rank, the king co
vets
I).E WILLENBERG. 93
vets her for himself—what say you now?"
“Impossible!” was the interjection the
count had nearly uttered, but he recol
lected himself in time to prevent such a
violation of etiquette to the royal person
age who addressed him. Astonishment
at the idea of Poland's monarch asking
his daughter in marriage to raise her to
the dignity of a queen, kept him for a
while in silence, but he could not doubt
it; yet amid all his amazement, paternal
vanity, highly flattered, was most conspi
cuous—“I know not how we have de
served such condescension from his majes
ty, or your highness,” said he, bowing
gracefully. as he spoke; “in a father's par
tial eyes, Victoria was every thing lovely
that mortal can be; but surely—surely
—” He suddenly stopped here, for
the pride of his heart, in having such a
daughter, would not permit him to ac
knowledge her unworthy even of his sove
reign's hand.
The
94 DE WILLENBERG,
The duke finished the sentence, and
banished that part of the flattering delu
sion at once—“She is worthy of me, my
lord; she shall be duchess of Silesia, but
she can never be a queen, unless fate
should snatch my brother from the throne,
and place me there—there is more in my
words than perhaps I dare explain to you;”
but it was so evident to the count that he
wished to explain them, that even had
not his own wishes urged him to demand
it, he would have done so.
“What is there in them, duke, that I
may not hear?” asked he, in a voice tre
mulous with alarm; “has his majesty said
any thing, the repetition of which he pro
hibited 2* -
“Not exactly,” muttered Leopold, in
a sort of evasive tone, that betrayed a
willingness and an unwillingness to go on
—“Oh! it is nothing, nothing ! your lord
ship's not knowing it were as though it
had never been.”
r This
IDE WILLENBERG. 95
This artifice succeeded as he wished,
and the count still more eagerly pressed
him.
“Well, then, lest your doubts might
be again excited by my request, it seems
better that I should deal explicitly with
you; but it will be conditionally, my lord
—you must swear never to reveal to any
body either our past or our present con
versation; the subject on which you ask an
explanation is of that delicate nature, that
no common ear must ever hear it; will
you do what I require—will you promise
me too, that if I should reveal any thing
offensive to your ear, you will listen with
calmness?” -
These were stipulations that could not
be acceded to in a moment; but the count
fancied that what Leopold had to say was
something he ought to know—“If your
highness considers my word my bond,
accept it now as such,” said he: “I would
not willingly take an oath—rely upon my
simple promise of secrecy—it shall be in
violate;
96 DE WILLENBERG.
violate; and be your disclosure what it
may, I will hear with calmness.”
“I have said the king, my brother,
wished to possess your daughter—”
“Yes — wishing she was of suitable
birth,” suggested the count—“but I in
terrupt you.”
“What think you were the conditions,
count, on which this honour was to be
conferred 2*
“Nothing, I hope, to sully my honour,”
said his lordship, with an air of severe and
haughty majesty.
“Let your own opinion decide that—
he was to propose that your daughter
should become his concubine !”
A storm of rage, fury, madness, threw
the count's whole frame into dreadful com
motion, as he wildly started from his chair,
and stamped his foot on the ground with
a violence that shook the room. Thunder
was in his voice, and lightning seemed
blazing from his eyes, while within his
heaving bosom a tempest of passions was
struggling
DE WILLENBERG. 97.
struggling to vent themselves.—“Cursed
be the heart that dared to nourish such an
hellish wish" he vociferated, “and doubly
cursed the tongue that dared to utter it!”
“Do not—do not let it thus frightfully
ruffle you, my lord; let pity, horror, or
contempt, at so foul a thought, restrain
your anger. It was a vile wish, I own,
but it is now no more—I have smothered
it in embryo. Did you not promise to
listen with calmness 2" -
“Calmness said your highness? - Bid
the roaring sea, when hurricanes impetu
ously sweep over its foaming surface—bid
it be calm; but tell not a father's watchful
ear to listen calmly to so gross an insult,
offered to the virgin innocence of his
child ! I'll see the king myself, and 23.
“Hold, my lord * cried the alarmed
Leopold, detaining him, as, forgetful of
every thing else, he was hurrying towards
the door; “for Heaven's sake—for your
own sake, stop, I beseech you! be not so
rash—recollect he is your sovereign; you
vol. II. F would
98 DE WILLENBERG,
would not assuredly lift a traitorous arm
against him.”
In Leopold's grasp he seemed to be
mechanically withheld, and quite unnerv
ed by his agitation, he sank upon the chair
he had just quitted, fixing on the almost
trembling duke a look, from which he
would, if it were possible, have recoiled.
—“My arm shall not strike him,” said he,
“nor my tongue speak treason to his ear;
but with that tongue I will send such
stings into his very heart, that he shall
wish some traitor's hand in mercy to tear it
out, and bleach away the crimes that dye
it now so black and horrible.”
“I conjure you, count, to be more your
self; you surely remember your promise,
and will not infringe it.”
“Could I have anticipated this when I
yielded such a promise? could I have—”
“Hear me to the end—it is but justice
to do so,” interrupted Leopold—“justice
to yourself, to the king, and to me! He
is less guilty than you imagine, and if I
Call
DE WILLENBERG. 99
can even partly wipe away a stain from
my brother's character, it is my duty to do
so. He would have had me bear the mes
sage of his unhallowed passion—have had
me demand the lady Victoria as a gratifica
tion to his licentiousness! Indignant, not
only at the debasing office he would have
lured me into, but at the bare idea of offer
ing to your illustrious house an insult so
unpardonable, I spurned him—ay, spurn
ed even a monarch, who could conceive so
infamous a project. Struck with remorse,
he frankly acknowledged his guilt, and the
force of my arguments and my indigna
tion. I reasoned him into a full conviction
of it; his gratitude on contemplating the
crime I saved him from, and the lesson I
taught him, were my reward; every shadow
of such a wish vanished from his bosom,
and I forgave him.”
“May Heaven forgive him also " ejacu
lated the count. -
“Assuredly, then, your lordship will
not withhold from him what you implore
- F 2 the
I00 DE WILLENIBERG. -
the Divinity to bestow—you will also for
give him.”
“My forgiveness can avail him little—
it cannot wash from his conscience so foul
a blot as one guilty thought has left upon
it.”
“Repentance has washed away that
blot ere now, I trust. Man must make
allowances for the frailties and faults of his
fellow-man.”
“I do forgive him, duke, but never,
never can I forget, that the smiles of roy
alty are as deceitful as the sunshine of a
winter's day, whose transient treacherous
brightness allures you from the shade, and
then, woe to your credulity, comes the
Storm *
“Whatever may be your sentiments on
this point, my lord, I place too firm a re
liance on your word, on your honour,
which no thoughts, no wishes of others can
ever sully, to fear for an instant any fur
ther utterance of them. A word more,
and all is told: the king entreated that I
would
DE WILLENBERG. I01
would never reveal what I have revealed
to you, and which the possibility of in
curring some unfavourable doubts in your
mind towards me, by my silence, alone
compelled me to. I promised compliance
—those doubts exist no longer—I have
cleared myself, pleaded successfully for my
brother, and he must hear of it no more;
were even the slightest hint of my visit
here to-day to reach him, all his apprehen
sions would return, and nothing could
banish them. He would for ever dread
the sight of you, and his life would be a
life of misery.” -
“Your reliance is not misplaced. For
your highness's sake I will let the matter
sink into oblivion.” -
“But should his passion for your daugh
ter, whom he really loves, urge him to
come forward, and make proposals for her
hand?”
“I would reject them " said the count,
hastily, and somewhat angrily; “the wo
F 3 Iſlan
102 DE WILLENBERG.
man he deemed only fit to be his mistress,
cannot be fit to be his queen—but we will
now let the painful business rest.”
This was exactly the decisive and final
reply upon the subject that Leopold wish
ed for; he had now performed his chef:
d'oeuvre—a summit of wickedness to which
the very soul of guilt had hitherto appeared
to him incapable of climbing.
Almost sickening at the contemplation
of such an enormity as he had practised,
and even astonished at the undaunted
effrontery with which he had dared to
proceed to such a length, he feared that
one word more would hurry him down the
frightful precipice on whose verge he
stood; he therefore felt relieved when the
clock, proclaiming the hour at which the
count usually dined, afforded him what
the warfare of his guilty conscience, with
the outward composure it was necessary
for
DE WILLENBERG. I03
for him to preserve, almost made him feel
that he required—an opportunity to de
part.
The count was too well versed in court
ceremony to ask him, at such a moment,
to stay dinner; and, in truth, such a state
of commotion had all his feelings been
thrown into by their conversation—by the
probability of his having his daughter re
stored to him—by Theodore's supposed
unworthiness, his falseness, his base du
plicity—and, finally, unworthy as he seem
ed, by his appalling death—that he was
glad when the duke's departure left him.
once more to himself, ill calculated as he
was to go through the ceremonies even of
common politeness to a stranger.
F 4 CHAP
I04 DE WILLENBERG,
CHAPTER IV.
---4--------->4-4
With how secure a brow and specicus form
He gilds the secret villain DRY bes.
How dreadful, how insupportable is the
presence of one towards whom we are
conscious of having sinned how oppres
sive and full of horror to ourselves is the
weight of our guilt, while we stand before
him It can be equalled by no earthly
torture, save when we are sufficiently awa
kened to it, the nameless dread we must
feel in the presence of our Creator, where
we are always.
Unhappily Leopold thought not now
of the Divinity, nor from his frown expe
rienced a pang, or for a moment shrunk;
his apprehensions were only in presence of
the
DE WILLENIBERG. 105
the count; but now that he was fairly
away from him, he felt as if a load had
been removed from his heart, and that he
could respire, could think, and could act,
with his usual freedom. He was thus left
at liberty to plan the finale of this iniqui
tous part, for as yet it was but half acted,
and to complete his great masterpiece in
the approaching interview with the king
his brother—one whom he had so foully
wronged, and whose vengeance, should his
perfidy be detected, he had as much reason
to dread. He was not blind to the dan
gers of his critical situation, and he knew
that the only chance of escaping them lay
in his proceeding through the whole as
firmly as he had begun.
It was by no means part of his plan to
mention De Willenberg's name to the
king, or let him know that such a person
was in any way connected with the Her
man family. His majesty had, once or
twice, heard of Theodore, as being one of
F 5 the
106 DE WILLENBERG.
the officers under the duke, and one of the
bravest; but he knew no more of him,
and had never for an instant suspected him
to be an acquaintance or visitor ofthe count
Herman's, much less one likely to become
his lordship's son-in-law, by marrying the
very woman to whom he had himself prof.
fered his royal hand.
The report of his assassination had al
ready reached Warsaw; but still Augus
tus only knew that young De Willenberg
had imprudently ventured into the forest,
and had met the fate that might have
been anticipated. He knew not that the
hand of secret treachery had been at work,
and would therefore be doubtless the less
circumstantial in his inquiries relative to
it. It was yet farther from his thoughts
to mention any of the events that had
really happened at the castle; for if he
could succeed in gaining Victoria, he saw
the policy, nay, the absolute necessity of
keeping her flight a secret at the court.
If
DE WILLENBERG. 107
If known, it would, in the first instance,
lead to a discovery of the cause, and next
to a detection of the whole naked truth—
a dreadful detection of the deception he
had practised, and he shuddered to think
of the disgrace that would fall upon him,
should the slightest hint of the circum
stance come to the king's ear—it would
immediately expand into certainty; the
latter would hasten to the castle, to ascer
tain all, and try to comfort the unhappy
father, who had been his early friend;
the fatal facts would then be explained,
and himself stigmatized and disgraced for
eVer.
Thus resolved, he reached the palace,
where the king was in his closet, ready to
receive him. There was something, or he
fancied there was, in the monarch's looks,
which at first almost awed him from his
purpose—an air of majesty, and a proud
dignity, that seemed ready, with a single
glance, to annihilate the one who would
F 6 - dare
I08 DE WILLENBERG.
dare to insult his ear with falsehood. But
Leopold betrayed no discomposure; not
an evidence, not a shade of guilt, was vi
sible in his features or his deportment.
His brother's aspect softened into all its
natural sweetness and benignity, and,
encouraged by it, he seated himself oppo
site.
Augustus's finely-animated countenance
interrogated him before his lips did.—
“Now, my dear brother,” said he, “I am
prepared to hear the result of your em
bassy—what said the count Herman 2
how received he my proposal?”
A sort of doubtful look, something be
tween an expression of disappointment and
satisfaction, preceded Leopold's reply.—
“With all possible gratitude for the ho
nour you designed him, with high respect
for your majesty's person and station, but
he humbly entreats your gracious permis
sion to decline it.”
Leopold's
IDE WILLENBERG, 109
Leopold's hesitation, before he faltered
out the last words, sufficiently told what
was to come, and disappointment instantly
blanched the king's cheek; resentment at
a refusal was beginning to contend in his
bosom against his better reason, but it
strove against too powerful an opponent,
and was quickly subdued.—“He has ab
solutely declined it then?” demanded Au
gustus; “and upon what grounds?”
“The most conscientious ones, my liege;
though, for his own sake, I regret, not the
most politic. Both profess themselves ene
mies to ambition: she feels not that senti
ment for your majesty which would justify
her receiving so rich a gift; all the reve
rence a subject ought to feel for a sovereign
she does, but the heart is capable of warmer
sentiments, and in her heart those have
already been excited by another.”
“ Deserving, fortunate, happy, must
that other be,” exclaimed the king, “ in
possessing such a treasure. Exalted, noble
minded woman! higher, infinitely higher
do
110 DE WILLENBERG,
do thy virtues raise thee than all the boast
ed power of royalty could do! thus mag
nanimously to forego all the wealth and
splendour of regal dignity—thus to sacri
fice all that could tempt the vanity of
woman, from motives which, being thy
soul's ornament, so truly aggrandize thee!”
He could not help sighing at the convic
tion that this amiable being had bestowed
her affections on another, and never, never
would be his.-" Know you,” he conti
nued, “ for whom is reserved that hand
thus refused to a monarch 2"
Again Leopold hesitated, apparently
unwilling to avow that he did know; but
the question being repeated—“I confess,
my liege,” replied he, with affected reluc
tance, “that I do know; but, I pray your
majesty, press me no further on the sub
ject—I would withhold his name; the
cold-veined stoic, knowing not its sterling
value, declined the proffered gift.”
“Can it be possible that you are serious,
Leopold 2 can such a being exist? I
* . - would
IDE WILLENEERG. 111
would know who, or where, in my domi
nions, is the unfeeling monster (man he
cannot be, who has no heart) that would
reject such a woman as Victoria.”
“It may surprise your majesty to know
it, and to know that monster is so, near
you. I, my liege—I have rejected her.”
Amazed, astounded, the king drew back
to some distance, still keeping his eyes in
tently fixed on Leopold, and doubting
whether his ears had not deceived him.—
“You rejected her!” repeated he, smiling
at a thing he deemed so improbable; “if
you did, then you are not Leopold, duke
of Silesia. It is said that his highness has
gained some credit for his gallantry of late
in that quarter.”
“Believe not such a thing, my liege,”
exclaimed the alarmed duke, nearly thrown
off his guard by the king's good-humoured
but unlucky observation; “who dared to
speak so lightly of me, spoke falsely; and
Leopold, duke of Silesia, as I am, has yet
- seen
II2 DE WILLENBERG.
seen no woman whom he will ever make
his duchess.”
“And yet I have offered to make her
my queen—and she preferred you, Leo
pold, to the one who would have placed
her on the throne of Poland Is your
highness then so far exalted above com
mon mortals, that she is unworthy of you?
or is it that you either possess a heart per
fectly callous and insensible, or no heart at
all 2’”
Leopold saw now that, so far from meet
ing any opposition from his brother to his
passion, he had every thing to hope; but
still dissimulation must do all for him—
his heart dared not yet peep forth from the
mask that concealed it.—“Augustus,” said
he, “ you misjudge me; I have a heart,
and it is not an unfeeling, insensible one:
although I have beheld Victoria almost
with indifference, that might not be the
ease; I might perhaps not be so well able
to resist such powerful fascinations as her
beauty
IDE WILLENBERG. 113
beauty throws around her, did I not know
and feel the duty I owe my sovereign.”
“Why and how has that interfered?—
But I understand you, Leopold; my in
terest, my happiness, have had the prece
dence in your thoughts; you secretly ad
mired Victoria, but deemed it your duty
to me to endeavour to conquer nature her
self; and, making a noble sacrifice of your
own affections, you strove to cease your
admiration of her, that you might obtain
her for your king. Have I not now right
ly guessed the cause whence you rejected
her?” - -
“You have indeed, I avow,” replied the
unblushing Leopold, unhesitatingly.
“Then thus are all my hopes of her
annihilated;” and as the generous Augus
tus said this, to assure his brother that he
resigned his pretensions to her, he could
hardly repress a tear, that would have in
stantly told what a pang that resignation
cost him,
With
114 IDE WILLENBERG.
With secret exultation Leopold saw his
struggle with himself; he had partly gain
ed his ground, and it was plain that a little
more skilful manoeuvring would obtain
possession of the whole. -
“May the hand of the woman you love
be the reward of your magnanimity!” con
tinued the king—“a more precious one
you could not have; and since she cannot
be mine, my greatest joy will be to see her
the wife of my brother—yes, wed her, and
be as happy with her as you deserve to
be l’”
“Never,” cried Leopold, assuming a
dignified resoluteness. “Does your ma
jesty think me base enough to purchase
that happiness at the expence of yours?
to marry the very woman you had con
descended to make choice of for a wife—
to snatch her thus from you for ever?
Until now, I believed that you would in
dignantly repel the imputation of an un
worthy action uttered against me by any
- other
DE willENBERG. , 115
other tongue; but such a thing uttered
by yourself, my liege, I almost doubt in
the very hearing.”
“You do yourself and me injustice,
Leopold, in thinking thus. I know you
to be noble and generous, as your conduct
has proved you on this occasion: I would
not be less so; therefore, I repeat, if her
choice meets her father's concurrence—
and why should it not ?—dismiss those
scruples, and receive a wife whom the
whole kingdom might envy you the pos
session of.”
It seemed now quite time to take him
at his word, lest any further reasoning
should influence him, and defeat its own
end; and in an undecisive sort of voice,
which he left the king to interpret as he
pleased—“Has your majesty,” he asked,
“ well considered what you would do?
would you indeed so magnanimously re
linquish all chance of the beautiful Victo
ria's hand, because she cannot bestow her
affections on you—because her unambi
-
tious
116 DE WILLENBERG.
tious heart seeks, in an humbler indivi
dual, its kindred one—in fine, merely
because she now loves another?”
“ The most undeniable, the most ur
gent reason,” returned the monarch; “af.
fection, mutual affection, is the pure and
lasting basis upon which all connubial
happiness is built; it is the strongest bul
wark to a woman's honour to love her
husband.”
“But mark me, Augustus; woman, we
know, is vain—and frailty is so incorpo
rated with her being, that she whom man
besides her husband loves, stands on the
brink of ruin—one further step plunges
her for ever into its dark abyss. Our first
parent, Eve, stood for a while irresolute
between Heaven and her tempter; but
soon woman's frailty betrayed itself—the
apple lured her—she tasted, and she fell.”
“I perceive what it is you fear, Leo
pold; but though I loved Victoria, yet
adulterous blood flows not through my
veins, to warm them with an unhallowed
passion
DE WILLENBERG. 117
passion for my brother's wife; no—I will
carry still further that magnanimity you
applaud than relinquishing my hopes of
her—I will turn my thoughts now to
choose some other woman for the partner
of my throne, who will divert them from
her altogether.”
“As you have resolved upon this, sire,
and that it is your gracious wish that I
should accept the lady Victoria's hand, be
it so; I will no longer hesitate; for it is
no longer improper to avow, that the first
sight of her inspired me with wishes and
sentiments such as I had never known
before, and nothing but a sense of duty
to my king, and the sacredness of the
trust reposed in me, could have withheld
me from laying my fortune and my ducal
coronet at her feet.”
Little more was now requisite—he had
gained a complete victory over the un
suspecting Augustus, and had, in fancied
security, reached all but the extreme sum
mit
II8 DE WILLENBERG.
mit of his nefarious plot. The recollection
of Victoria's flight caused him but little
uneasiness, however alarming such a cir
cumstance in reality was, as he was of
opinion that the sudden and mysterious
disappearance of her lover had alarmed
her into the desperate resolution of seek
ing him herself, wherever it seemed likely
that she might find him; and he enter
tained no doubt that she had, as the count
had suggested, made her way directly to
the town where his regiment was station
ed. Thither, therefore, it was his intention
to proceed forthwith; and even not find
ing her there, he believed that he should,
by continued inquiries, be able easily to
trace the route she had taken; it was his
determination, at all events, to pursue his
search over the whole kingdom, should it
be necessary; and, to furnish a plausible
excuse for his absence, he told the king
that it was his intention to set out imme
diately for Herman Castle, to communi
cate the result of this interview to the
count,
DE WILLENBERG. 119
count, and to propose himself for lady
Victoria; after which, he said he should
visit his regiment for a few days, or per
haps longer, according as he might find
the place agreeable or otherwise. Having
got every thing in readiness for his jour
ney, he bade the king a formal adieu, and
leaving him totally unsuspicious of the
real state of affairs, he set forward, not to
Herman Castle, but through the neigh
bouring country, in search of our fugitive
heroine.
It is asserted, and probably with much
truth, that in general those minds are most
prone to suspicion that are the most inti
mate and familiar with vice, as the perpe
trator of a crime is ever in dread of treach
ery in an accomplice: guilt may, in fact,
be compared to the heart; and suspicions
are as so many ramifications, like the veins
and arteries, that carry their own nourish
ment to and fro. The bosom of Augustus
was free from guilt, from deceit, and from
suspicion—
I20 DE WILLENBERG.
suspicion—he deemed men incapable of
vice, until he had received convincing
proofs to the contrary; and to this was it
chiefly owing that Leopold had escaped
thus undetected and in safety. Generosity
may sometimes be carried to so great an
extent, that, if it be not a fault, it is at
least a culpable weakness: such it is when
we make those sacrifices to others which
produce unhappiness to ourselves, much
more than counterbalancing the pleasure
resulting from the consciousness of our
having contributed to the happiness of
another. So was it with Augustus when
he had relinquished Victoria, when Leo
pold was gone, and he felt that he had in
deed not a moment hesitated to purchase
his brother's happiness at the expence of
his own. The regret he experienced was,
however, far from being of that selfish na
ture that little-minded people are apt to
feel when their own gratifications are made
subordinate to those of others; his heart.
sighed after Victoria, not because his bro
ther
DE WILLENBERG. 121
ther would probably possess her, but be
cause he himself had lost her; yet even
thus to sigh for her he sometimes thought
ungenerous and unworthy; and after com
municating to his prime minister and fa
vourite what had passed, he sought every
means in his power to banish from his
lingering affections for ever an object so
dangerous and so inimical to his peace.
voL. II. G. CHAP
122 IDE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER V.
---------------
'Tis not my talent to conceal my thoughts,
Or carry smiles or sunshine in my face,
While discontent sits heavy at my heart. Addisos.
THE letter that had brought these bitter
and accumulated griefs upon the noble
house of Herman was from madame De
Willenberg, and the black seal on the out
side served partly to proclaim the melan
choly tidings within. From the first two
or three lines, Theodore had instantly ga
thered the import of the whole, but so
violently did they agitate him, that it was
not until, in the solitude of his own apart
ment, he had fully prepared himself for
the worst, he could venture to proceed in
the perusal of it; he then read, with all
the
DE WILLENBERG. I23
the attention they required, the following
lines:—
“THEODORE,
“The wreck of happiness at your
once-peaceful home is complete—it is sunk
in an overwhelming ocean of misery for
ever; deeply have I drank of the cup of
sorrow, and, alas ! the very dregs have
forced themselves upon your wretched
mother—wretched indeed is that mother,
who cannot tell of her own sufferings
without making her beloved child a par
ticipator in them! But, alas, my Theo
dore! too deeply do you already participate
in them; and whence should I affect con
cealment?—yes, the whole dreadful truth
must be divulged to you; but I will do so
with all a fond mother's tenderness.
“Your father, that being whom nature
taught your young heart to love and reve
rence, is no longer a wanderer in this world
of sin and sorrow—he is gone for ever;
G 2 and,
124 IDE WILLENBERG.
and, oh! would that I could say he de
scended to the tomb in peace and tran
quillity with all mankind' Must I indeed
avow, that the one whose image ruffled
the last solemn moments of fleeting life
was his child—his only child—yourself,
my son 2–heart-rending conviction 1–
Oh, Theodore the hand that wrote your
last fatal letter to him must surely for
the time have been unguided by your
heart, unwarmed by its pure current—re
morse and self-reproach must have para
lyzed that hand, when it had ventured to
write such a letter to a parent. Yet, ah!
my much-injured boy! how greatly has
that parent wronged you! how greatly
failed in his duty to you !—this it was
that incensed—maddened you, and you
knew not what you had done. But I will
briefly hurry over the painful facts; to
dwell upon them thus, is but probing and
irritating the wound I fain would heal.
“Your father had no sooner read that
etter, than, exasperated almost to frenzy,
he
DE WILLENBERG. 195
he denounced his curse upon you, in the
moment of passion; at that dreadful mo
ment, excess of rage gave his whole form
and face an appearance truly appalling;
such an exertion of all the powers of na
ture was too much for his frame to sustain
—a blood-vessel suddenly gave way: this
circumstance was the sure harbinger of
death, and he sunk rapidly. Aware of his
approaching dissolution, he instantly sent,
spite of all my tears, entreaties, and re
monstrances, to summon his notary, to
draw up a fresh will, entirely hostile to
you; so determined and implacable was
his resentment against you, that even the
insignificant allowance you have hitherto
had is now taken from you, and your name
erased from every part of the will; the
brilliant prospects that opened to you in
the first dawn of life were early dimmed,
and now, alas! have faded from your view
for ever; the ample fortune you had rea
sonably hoped to enjoy, is now gone to
aggrandize a stranger—the count Konin
G 3 gern—
126 DE WILLENBERG,
gern—one who wants it not, whose pos
sessions are already great and splendid;
but he is one who, I am sure, will not use
it unworthily; and as the deed is done
now past recall, it is bootless in us thus to
deprecate it. But let us hope, my dear
Theodore, that your Heavenly Father will
provide for you, as your earthly one cast
you off. And surely too a ray of conso
lation remains, while such a man as the
count Herman is your friend; may he
ever continue to be such and much I
fear that is the only relative situation in
which he can ever stand towards you.
Seek no higher distinction from him now,
my Theodore, for the poor and portionless
De Willenberg must no longer aspire to
be the son of one of Poland's wealthiest
nobles—every law of honour and self
respect interdicts it. The count is, we
know, too just, too honourable, to retract
a promise given under even happier aus
pices; but think, my child, whether it
would be fair and honourable now to take
advantage
I}E WILLENBERG. 197
advantage of that promise—think in what
a light your accepting his daughter's hand
would appear, under the present circum
stances—certainly the most unfavourable
to the scrupulous delicacy of principle you
have always maintained; but your own
excellent heart will best direct you how
to act—be guided by that ever-faithful
monitor, and I am confident you will not
act wrong. To none, in competition with
the amiable Victoria, would I give the
preference as a daughter, for none do I
know more calculated to contribute to the
domestic comforts that should ever attend
the marriage state. But I will offer no
further advice upon this important sub
ject. That Heaven may direct you for
the best, is the sincere and fervent prayer
of your affectionate mother, -
“ADELAIDE DE WILLENBERG.”
Again and again did Theodore peruse
this mysterious and wonder-exciting let
G 4 ter:
198 DE WILLENBERG.
ter: in what instance he had committed
such an outrage on the respect he owed
his father, as a father, as he was thus
charged with, he could by InO Imeans re
collect: he had, it is true, incurred his
serious displeasure by refusing to marry
Maddeline Klopstock, one whose inferior
birth and uncongenial manners and dispo
sition in a great measure justified that
refusal; he had subsequently displeased
him still more, by embracing the profession
of a soldier and a hero, for which nature
seemed to have designed him; so far he
had acted perhaps culpably; but never had
his feelings, at the unjust and illiberal ex
tent of that father's unkindness, hurried
him into so flagrant a breach of that ve
neration in which every law divine and
human commands us to hold the authors
of our being, as to address him in a man
ner so offensive and audacious as the letter
attributed to him must have been. Per
fectly satisfied of his own innocence with
regard to it, he naturally set himself to
consider
DE WILLENBERG. 129
eonsider who might have been the author
of it; that it was the production of some
secret enemy could not be doubted, and,
however conscious of never having done
any thing to deserve an enemy, he knew
that the best of us all are not without
them; yet he had never suspected any
other, nor did he now, of being his enemy,
than the duke of Silesia and mademoiselle
Klopstock. The latter had, it was report
ed (for personally he now knew nothing
of her), enraged and stung with disap
pointment at being rejected by the only
man she had ever loved, withdrawn en
tirely from the world to a distant monas
tery, where she was about to take the
veil; from this it did not appear likely
that she was the one who had thus brought
ruin upon him; and his suppositions, there
fore, rested strongly on the former, for well
he knew that the smooth-tongued Leopold
was not his friend. -
That the duke had long secretly, but
*.. G. 5 ardently,
130 DE WILLENBERG.
ardently, admired Victoria, was a too evi
dent and painful conviction; for love,
though so noble a passion, is still a selfish
one, and will no more share with another
a particle of the heart it fixes on, than an
infant will relinquish its most precious
bauble. Of the particular attentions of
any body to Victoria, he would have been
jealous; but, however repugnant to her,
those attentions had certainly been paid
to her by Leopold, whom he now could
not help regarding as the one whose aim
was to supplant him entirely in her affec
tions, by making him appear unworthy of
the favour or countenance of his father,
which such a letter was just calculated to
do. Alas! it had already partly accom
plished its object; and, oh! what anguish
to think that it might eventually complete
it, by convincing Victoria that she was
acting imprudently, in continuing to en
courage the addresses of a man, poor and
destitute of every thing to offer her but
an upright and affectionate heart! -
Yet
DE WILLENBERG. 131.
Yet thus decidedly to condemn him on
an accusation without actual proof, ap
peared to him, on a little reflection, to be
highly unwarrantable and ungenerous; for
was it not possible that some other might
have written that letter, and without such
a motive too as he had imputed to its
author? Many were the possibilities that
suggested themselves; he recollected that
Victoria was not admired by himself and
Leopold only, but by all who had ever
enjoyed a moment in her society. Several
of the officers of his regiment had oftener
than once expressed themselves warmly
in her praise. Might not envy at the
ehance of his monopolizing such a wo
man, have excited some of them to an act
they would otherwise have shrunk from,
with the hope, perhaps the intention, of
addressing her seriously themselves?
Wearied with these vain surmises; and
alternately dismissing and recalling them,
he determined on a mode of ending at
* - G. 6. OnCe'
132 DE WILLENIBERG,
once his uncertainty—namely, to see the
letter, and endeavour to discover to whose
handwriting it bore a resemblance; he
knew that of most of his brother-officers,
and also of their royal commander, and
this appeared to him an infallible way to
prove or disprove his suspicions completely.
Agitated and distressed by the peculiar
delicacy of his situation, which required
that he should keep the whole circum
stance entirely from the knowledge of all
his friends at the castle, he deemed it ad
visable, though it would be painful in the
extreme to his feelings, to depart clan
destinely, and at an early hour, on the
ensuing morning.
Never had he beheld a day of such com
plete wretchedness linger out its dreary
course, for never before had he been really
unhappy; all his assumed fortitude was
but a temporary mask to his feelings, for,
the moment he had retired to his apart
ment for the night, all that fortitude va
nished,
DE WILLENBERG. 133
mished, and with it all that had controlled
those feelings so long—he gave way to
the full tide of them, and, spite of his
matural strength of mind, he could not
prevént himself from shedding a flood of
tears. It was necessary, however, that he
should collect himself, for a painful task
yet remained to him, to which, he feared,
all his powers would scarcely be adequate
—that of addressing to count Herman a
few lines, accounting for his flight in the
least alarming manner, should he not re
turn within a certain time—and that he
should not, appeared indeed but too pro
bable. Under this melancholy impression,
rendered still more so by the idea that he
was now about to leave, perhaps for ever,
the being he loved most on earth—Victo
ria—voluntarily quitting her, and rushing,
perhaps to death, it required a degree of
firmness that nothing but the desperate
resolution he had taken could furnish him
with, to write the following letter:—
*º
“ Ere
134 DE WILLENBERG.
“Ere these lines shall reach your
- eye, my friend, my benefactor, the unhap
py writer of them may be far, far removed
from all earth's joys and sorrows: few in
deed of the former have fallen to his lot,
yet, oh! those few have been of the most
delicious, most exquisite nature; but they
were as the transient summer's sun, which
quickly passes away, bringing stern linger
ing winter in its rear. Once I boldly
thought true happiness was of this world,
as well as the next; but my ignorance
and folly have been punished, and I am
undeceived. -
“Let a few words, my lord, suffice to
account for my quitting thus secretly your
hospitable roof, beneath which all of hap
piness I have ever known was mine. If
I return not, it imports but little to know
what drives me hence; if I do, you shall
know all. Yet even now will I write
what perhaps my tongue may never be
able to tell; all is mere suspicion still, but
soon may all be changed to certainty. At
the
DE WILLENBERG, 135
the first step I sunk in my father's favour,
some treacherous heart projected my ruin
—resolved to plunge me into the lowest
depths of human suffering—to load me
with a parent's malediction; and the hand
of villainy was ready to execute the dia
bolical plot that the heart conceived: a
dreadful fatal letter, to which my name
was forged, was sent to him, and my ruin
is the consequence. But I will seek the
base miscreant who has thus dashed from
my lips the cup of happiness—yes, over
the wide circuit of the world I will seek
him; and if my arm inflicts not his pu
nishment, there will at least be some
consolation, should it even perish in the
attempt.
“I have now, my lord, said all that is
necessary I should say at present; and now
comes the agonizing word, farewell —
agonizing indeed, when I reflect that it
may be the last; that I may never re
enter Herman Castle—never again hear
the voice of her I love—never see Victo
r13
136 IDE WILLENBERG,
ria more!—Oh! this, this is too much –
my spirits—all, all my fortitude fails me,
and I can write no longer.”
-
Overcome by these emotions, he laid
down his pen; the idea of all he had said
being realized—of what Victoria's feelings
would be on reading this, checked him for
a while—he seemed undetermined; but
his mother's letter recurring to him, again
reminded him of his wrongs; and, deter
mined to seek redress, he hesitated no
longer, but sealed the packet and directed
it, with the proviso that it was not to be
opened for three days.
, The worst struggle with himself was
now over, and, with a heavy heart, he
prepared for his departure. His apartment
being in a part of the castle rather remote
from the other sleeping-rooms, there was
the less difficulty to be apprehended; be
sides which, there was a door contiguous
to
DE WILLENBERG. 137
to it, as we have before mentioned, lead
ing into the wood, through which a long
and circuitous path wound round to the
high road; and having in the daytime
procured the key of this door, he knew
that no obstacle remained to retard his
flight.
After waiting anxiously until all within
the castle was profound silence, and its
inmates buried in sleep, he at last cau
tiously ventured forth. So much time
had passed away unnoticed in the task of
writing the letter he had addressed to the
count, that until now he did not perceive
the rapid advance of morning, and the
hour of four found him lingering yet at
the little door, at one moment wishing,
and the next dreading, to go. The moon,
which had shone in full splendour through
the night, was gradually disappearing from
the firmament, and the eastern clouds re
ceding at the approach of the magnificent
Aurora, who, arrayed in all her rich and
roseate
138 DE WII,LENBERG.
roseate hues, at length emerged from the
gloom of twilight; cheered by the beauti
ful and enticing appearance of the morn
ing, he moved forward on his journey,
which he was obliged to perform on foot.
His mother's house was now his desti
nation—that house, that home to which
he had so long been a stranger: and, alas!
how painful were the causes of his return
to it—his own injuries, and his father's
death ! It was situated at a considerable
distance from the castle, and to walk there
would, he knew, require, from the time of
his setting out, at least six or eight hours
—but there was no alternative—and hav
ing got clear of the precincts of the castle,
and reached the high road, he proceeded
swiftly onwards. -
He had ever been the darling favourite
of his mother, and as she was equally be
loved by him, the thought of embracing
her, after so long an absence, acted as a
stimulus
DE WILLENBERG, 139
stimulus to his spirits; and he hurried to
wards home on the wings of filial affection.
In the transports of their first meeting,
both mother and son forgot that there was
any thing to cut short the happiness they
for some minutes experienced; but me
mory, ever more faithful to our sorrows
than our joys, soon restored those they
had to deplore, and brought them to a
sense of their really-unhappy situation.
A long time elapsed ere he had courage
to make any inquiry respecting hisfather,
though impatient to see the letter that
had brought on him the displeasure of
that father, which had terminated only
with his life. Judging what was passing
in his mind, and that he feared to touch
upon the subject, though anxious to do
so, his mother, as gently as she could,
mentioned the circumstance of his father's
death, and then gradually turned their
conversation to what he wished—the let
ter, which she presently afterwards put
into his hands, If he had been before
amazed
140 DE WILLENBERG,
amazed at so unmerited an accusation,
how was he now thunderstruck at seeing
the letter, so exact an imitation of his
own handwriting, that it was next to im
possible that any body but himself should
not be deceived by it! At the first mo
ment of glancing at it, he started with a
sensation almost amounting to doubt.
When such was its effect upon himself,
how then was he to convince his mother
that he was not the author of it? To say
he had not written what bore so perfect a
resemblance to his usual writing and style,
was preposterous, he thought; but to let
her remain longer in the opinion that he
had written it, would be injustice to him
self. Before he ventured any comment
on it, however, he read it over in un
broken silence. Every line of it breathed
a spirit of the most daring opposition and
disobedience, and sentiments ofthe strong
est contempt and resentment for the past:
it described him on the eve of marriage
with the wealthy heiress of Herman
Castle;
DE WILLENBERG. I41
Castle; and unalterably determined to pur
sue his military career, haughtily relin
quishing every claim to his paternal friend
ship, or his fortune, and spurning the
trifling and despicable sum allowed him,
together with every other expectation he
might still as a son be supposed to have.
Such was the termination of this insult
ing and unnatural effusion; and as he read
it, madame de Willenberg kept her eye
fixed firmly on his countenance. Horror
struck he dashed it from him, and throw
ing himself on his knees, he caught his
mother's hand—“Can you for an instant
believe I wrote that letter?” cried he.
“Can- my mother believe me such a
wretch—such a vile and unprincipled
wretch?” he demanded, raising his voice
to a pitch almost terrific, as if to force
from her an unwilling confession that she
could not.
Alarmed by the vehemence of his man
ner, and affected at seeing a tear steal
~ down
142 DE WILLENBERG.
down his cheek—a tear that appealed pow
erfully and eloquently to all her feelings,
she was instantly satisfied of his total in
nocence, and as instantly expressed herself
so. Kissing him with all the maternal
affection that ever characterised her—
“Arise, my Theodore,” said she, raising
him at the same time; “you stand ac
quitted of this whole transaction.”
“But how will you account for it—if I
stand acquitted, say who is to be accused?
It must be accounted for—somebody you
surely must and do suspect, and who is
that somebody ?”
“It can be only some secret enemy,”
she promptly replied; “there are none of
us without such ; and you, my son, might
as reasonably think yourself exempt from
death, the common lot of mortals, as from
the crosses and misfortunes attendant on
our course through life—but thus let it
perish, and be for ever forgotten,” she
continued, advancing towards the fire
place,
DE WILLENBERG. ‘I 43
place, with the intention of committing it
to the flames.
“No, no, no,” he hastily exclaimed, de
taining her, and snatching it from her
hand, “infamous as it is, I still have use
for it.”
“What use would you convert it to ?”
demanded the alarmed mother. -
“To avenge my wrongs" was his re
ply; and as he uttered it, his voice assum
ed something so dreadful and determinate,
as momentarily to convey to his mother's
mind a conviction of the truth, that there
was somebody whom he suspected, and
was about to accuse openly ; nay worse,
whom, perhaps, his impetuous temper
might lead him to challenge to combat.
If such a step as this he meant to take,
she trembled for the consequences—“Say
what is it you would do—what madness
would you be guilty of Theodore?" cried
she, fixing on him a look that at once in
formed him of her suspicions.
“I Will
I44 DE WILLENBERG.
“I will not act madly or rashly, believe
me,” answered he “I will coolly, but
resolutely trace out the author of this ex
ecrable composition, and then prudence
shall guide me. I will act as every law
of real honour shall dictate; and if ever I
forget to vindicate that honour, then dis
own me as your son for ever, and say that
I loved you not.”
A glow of magnanimity, brighter than
he had ever worn before, overspread his
fine features, as he said these words; and
madame de Willenberg gazed with rap
ture and admiration on a being who ut
tered sentiments so noble, delighted to
think that he was her son.—“Go then,
my beloved boy,” she said, “you possess
a mind and soul that will shrink from im
prudence; be this affair entirely at your
own discretion: I will not evince a want
of confidence in you, by unnecessary cau
tion and advice: you have my full appro
bation and reliance.”
Grateful
IDE WILLENEERG. 145
Grateful for that approbation, he pressed
her hand to his lips, and endeavoured to
beguile her for a while into cheerfulness,
by assuming it in some measure himself.
His efforts were not lost upon her; and
when, after his promise to return, at all
events in a couple of days, she gave him
her parting benediction, she felt that he
was infinitely dearer to her than he had
ever been before.
He resumed his journey, however, in
the most dejected state of mind; a pre
sentiment of ill hung over him, and he
could not shake it off, though on his ar
rival at Zersk, it was necessary for him to
appear amongst his brother officers, with
Qut any thing particular in his manner
that might attract their observation or
their satire; for Theodore, with all his
noble qualities, was but a man : he had
his weaknesses and foibles as well as other
mortals; and he was now by no means in
WOL. II. H a humour
I46 DE WILLENBERG.
a humour to bear the rallying jokes that
were dealt indiscriminately amongst the
gay and thoughtless young men of which,
with very few exceptions, his regiment
was composed.
He was beloved by them all, and was
therefore received, as usual, with lively
joy and hospitality; each was forward in
congratulating him upon his supposed
approaching nuptials; and many jested
playfully with him on his having so slily
won the heart of the fair recluse." This
was, however, far from being a matter of
triumph to him now; but he parried off
their jokes with his accustomed good hu
mour, and soon put an end to them.
As they were all to dine together that
day, and to be honoured with the com
pany of their illustrious commander, the
duke of Silesia, De Willenberg was, of
course, obliged to be of the party; and
having, immediately after his arrival, con
- -- 4. sulted
IDE WILLENBERG. 147
sulted an intimate friend on the subject
of the letter, it was deemed advisable to
produce it when the whole company were
thus assembled, and watch well upon every
countenance its particular effect. Never
before had he so anxiously awaited the
dinner-hour, though so little inclined to
partake of its luxuries, or to add to its
festivity. It passed as it was wont to do,
accompanied with a strain of lively con
versation, and all the interesting anecdotes
of the day, in which Leopold took his
part, with the perfect ease and graceful
ness that always characterised him; but
whether it was the ease of an upright and
innocent heart, or that of a consummate
hypocrite, it was difficult to determine.
To De Willenberg it was a spiritless
and tedious meal: sorrow pressed heavily
upon his heart, and the causes of it were
consequently uppermost in his thoughts:
he longed to have his suspicions of the
infidelity of his brother officers to him
H 2 either
148 IDE WILLENBERG.
either confirmed or entirely dispelled; and
as soon as dinner was over, he seized an
opportunity to introduce the important
letter, by a few observations tending to
prepare them for it.
In compliance with the rules ofetiquette
and the general request, it was handed to
the duke of Silesia, for the purpose of being
read aloud. Every feature of Leopold's
face yet remained unchanged—his hand
was firm, and as he steadily and empha
tically perused it, every one but himself
at the table seemed struck dumb with
amazement and horror at its contents.
Not a shade of guilt was visible on his
countenance, nor a comment did he utter
until he had finished it.—“This indeed,”
said he, deliberately folding the letter, and
returning it to Theodore, “this indeed is
an extraordinary composition—a most
diabolical one, if it be really a forgery.”
Theodore's eyes flashed fire at the evi
dent doubt this rude observation implied;
but
DE WILLENBERG. 149
but he knew that in order to discover the
author, if he were amongst them, it was
necessary that he should preserve all his
self-command.—“ Whence should your
highness think otherwise?” asked he, eye
ing the duke acutely. -
“Oh, in charity to all mankind,” re
plied Leopold, with a sort of evasive
laugh, “I wished not to believe any one
so base—but, charity apart, is there no
body in particular whom you do, bona fide,
suspect of having written it?”
There was something in his manner of
putting this interrogatory that struck De
Willenberg forcibly, and he answered with
the same earnestness—“Yes, duke, there
is one.” - -
“Who is he ” demanded Leopold,
with energy, and half starting from his
seat, forgetful for a moment of his usual
proud and stately demeanour, in the inte
rest he took in this mysterious affair.
“Who is he?” was echoed and reechoed
by all present: “De Willenberg, say
H 3 whom
150 DE willENBERG.
whom do you suspect?—can it be any of
the company here assembled ”
: “Certainly not,” returned the duke,
instantly appearing to recollect himself;
“ nor is he obliged to make us his con
fidants.-I beg your pardon, sir,” he con
tinued to Theodore, “for my impertinent
curiosity; but having no particular mo
tive beyond our feelings of regard for you,
we cannot presume to press the inquiry;
yet I must say, the charge is a horrible
one, and should by no means be made or
harboured against any individual without
a positive proof of his guilt, and how are
you to obtain that proof?”
... “I will leave it to Heaven and his own
conscience, whoever he may be ſ” answer
ed Theodore: “if he has a heart, com
punction will sooner or later reach it; he
will feel and evince the enormity of his
guilt, and will stand unmasked before me
in all a villain's deformity.”
“Beware " vociferated Leopold, turn
ing
DE willENBERG. 151
ing ghastly pale, and his hand flew in
stinctively to the hilt of his sword; then
hastily composing his ruffled features, he
continued calmly—“I had forgotten the
causes that hurried you on thus, senor
de Willenberg, else it is not usual in
others to forget that in my presence such
violent language is unbecoming.”
“Unbecoming deeds generally provoke
unbecoming language,” observed Theo
dore, rather sharply; then in a sarcastic
tone, unusual to him, he added—“Respect
for your royal highness's station must si
lence even my wrongs. Let not the hap
piness or harmony of your present hours
be further disturbed by me.”
- Whether De Willenberg meant more
in this observation than might be explain
ed, or Leopold understood more from it
than he wished explained, we cannot at
present say; but frowning horribly for an
instant at Theodore—“Let us drink,” said
he, addressing the company, “to the hap
H 4 piness
I52 DE WILLENBERG.
piness and harmony of our whole lives—
may they ever be as calm and serene as at
this moment.”
The letter part of this toast was at least
ungenerous, after what De Willenberg
had made them acquainted with ; for by
most of his brother officers he was sincerely
esteemed and beloved; and most of them,
too, forbore to repeat Leopold's conclud
ing words, not thinking that they sa
voured exactly either of friendship or sym
pathy for him.
Hoping that the expression might have
escaped without any particular notice from
him, they changed the conversation; but
De Willenberg had heard, and was chag
rined by it; and notwithstanding his ami
able and accommodating disposition, he
could by no means put on the semblance
of cheerfulness, that he felt not, for the
remainder of the evening. -
At
DE WILLENBERG. 153
At an early hour the party broke up,
and with a sorrowful heart he retired to
the apartments he had hired in the town,
unable to draw any positive inference with
regard to the letter, which, after reperus
ing, he again sunk into a train of mourn
ful reflections, amongst which the belief
of Leopold's being the author of it soon
became predominant.
H 5 CHAP.
154. DE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER VI.
-->4------>----
The sun set red, the clouds were scudding wild,
And their black fragments into masses piled;
The birds of ocean screamed, and ocean gave
A hoarser murmur, and a heavier wave. BARRETT.
WHILE going over in memory every
word, every look, that had passed at dim
ner, a servant entered, and presented him
with a sealed billet, saying it had just been
delivered by a porter, at the street door,
who instantly on leaving it had departed,
but in what direction he (the servant) was
ignorant. It was directed to De Willen
berg, and in the handwriting of a stranger.
Hastily tearing it open, he read with
amazement the following words:—
“Ifyou value your personal safe
ty, sleep not to-night in this town, or its
vicinity;
DE WILLENBERG. 155
vicinity; danger and treachery lurk near
you, secure and unseen; nay, at this mo
ment you are almost within their very
grasp. The unlucky display of your let
ter to-day spurs the one who wrote it to
further vengeance, which, if you fly not
hence without delay, will assuredly over
take, and be fatal to you; if you would
avoid it, you must hasten home, and by
the shortest way, so as to arrive there be
fore the darkness of night can veil a mur
derer's deeds; if you go not by such way,
and with expedition, you are inevitably
lost. In three days return hither—danger
will then no longer exist, and the same
hand that now warns you hence, will
briefly reveal every circumstance pertain
ing to the letter. Fly! fly! I repeat, by
the shortest road; let no consideration de
tain you, nor permit you to breathe a syl
lable of this; and, meantime, Heaven shall
hear for you the prayers of -
“A SINCERE FRIEND.”
-
-
H 6 Horror
156 DE WILLENBERG.
Horror for a while chained Theodore's
every faculty, and rivetted him to the
spot on which he stood when he perused
this alarming billet, which was evidently,
as its signature declared it to be, from a
friend; but quickly recollecting the abso
lute necessity of rousing himself to action,
and that his fate perhaps hung on the de
cision of a moment, he determined to pro
fit by the kind admonition, and depart as
speedily as he could, without communi
cating to any body the cause of this sud
denly-formed resolution.
Twilight was now rapidly approaching,
and there was nothing in the appearance
of the evening to tempt him to a journey.
The day had been excessively sultry and
gloomy, and through the sky was now
floating a thick train of murky clouds, that
seemed every instant ready to pour forth
their liquid burdens in a torrent of rain.
That the night would be wet or stormy,
he did not doubt; the whole appearance
- of
DE WILLENBERG. 157
of the weather was such, that nothing
short of the treachery with which he was
threatened, in case of his remaining, could
have induced him to expose himself to the
probable fury of the angry-looking ele
ments on such an evening; but there was
no alternative, and go he knew he must,
in order to preserve perhaps his life.
Already, in imagination, he beheld the
muffled assassin stalking beside him, scowl
ing horribly upon him, and concealing be
neath his blood-stained cloak a dagger,
ready, at the instant of opportunity, to
strike it to his heart. Nature shuddered
at the appalling picture, and he again took
out the latter, to convince himself that he
had really such a thing to apprehend. He
tried to recognize the writing, but in vain;
it bore no similitude to any that he was
acquainted with; but it was obviously the
disguised hand of somebody, who wished
not to be known. Aware of the danger
and imprudence of delay, he lost but lit
tle
158 DTE WILLENIBERG.
tle time in useless conjecture; and order
ing his horse to be got ready with all pos
sible expedition, he once more took the
road towards home, and unaccompanied.
He had been cautioned to return by the
shortest road, which, to his dismay, he
now recollected lay through the vast and
frightful forest we have before mentioned.
Here there was another point on which to
hesitate, for were he to venture by that
way, should he not, in flying from danger
in one shape, be rushing towards it in an
other ? Many parts of the forest afforded
retreats to the most abandoned and despe
rate characters, and the formidable clans of
banditti that infested it, were the terror
of the whole surrounding country; but
then, on the other hand, should he take a
circuitous route, and not reach home before
night, there was every thing to be dreaded
from the treachery ofwhoever his unknown
friend's letter alluded to; so that, on the -
whole, he deemed it more prudent to en
counter
IDE WILLENBERG. 159
counter the glittering and undisguised
poniard of a bandit, than the concealed
one of an infinitely more dreadful and dan
gerous being—an unrevealed enemy; and
accordingly towards the forest he guided
his horse's steps.
As he rode along, he had leisure to re
call to his mind all the occurrences of the
day, and, by far the most important to
him, the receipt of the anonymous billet.
From the style and tenour of it, from the
very circumstance itself, it was manifest
that the forgery sent to his father was the
production of somebody in his own regi
ment; and so far suspense was at an end,
for he was not at all at a loss to guess who
that individual somebody in all probabi
lity was, though the motives that had
prompted so base an act were not quite
so evident. The most unaccountable part
of the whole transaction was the warning
he had received; to whom to attribute it,
he knew not; it had unquestionably been
- dictated
160 DE WILLENBERG.
*
dictated either by friendship for him,
or horror at the magnitude of some plot
formed against him; but it seemed likely
that the writer either was in the confi
dence of the person he spoke of, or had by
stratagem made himself master of his ma
chinations and designs; and again, were
he in league with him, would he have so
far counteracted them 2. Each moment
forming some new conjecture, which the
reasoning of the next overturned, he could
not come to any satisfactory conclusion.
Time thus imperceptibly glided away.
His horse was jogging on with the slow
and steady pace of perfect indifference to
the perils that might await its master, or
the alarming aspect of the weather, nor,
until several large drops of rain beat hea
vily upon his forehead, did Theodore re
collect the absolute necessity of urging the
animal more quickly on. The rain now
rapidly increased; the sky every instant.
grew darker and darker, till at length a
sheet
DE WILLENBERG. I61
sheet of uniform blackness covered its
whole extent, as far as the eye could reach;
all inanimate nature seemed tottering be
neath the shrill blasts of wind that mur
mured gradually into a perfect hurricane
—every thing around foretold the ap
proach of a violent tempest, and hoping to
be in some measure screened from its fury,
by the thick foliage of the trees, he spurred
his horse, and darted into the forest, whose
gloom, in many places almost impenetra
ble, was sufficient to fill the most courage
ous bosom with fear.
It may easily be supposed that De Wil
lenberg felt by no means comfortable, nor
free from the apprehensions natural to any
one in such a situation. Frightful and
dreary however as was the scene before
him, he could not but congratulate him
self on having reached a place that afford
ed him even a partial shelter, for at this
awful moment the storm burst forth with
such
162 DE WILLENBERG.
such tremendous violence, as seemed to
shake and convulse the whole terrestrial
world; the rain fell in profuse torrents—
loud and terrific peals of thunder rolled
heavily through the whole surrounding
atmosphere, which was presently illumi
nated at intervals by blazes of lightning,
that flashed through the intermingled
branches of the trees, giving them in many
places the appearance of being on fire.
At the commencement of the storm,
the horse had manifested several symp
toms of terror, which were now commu
nicated to De Willenberg, for it reared
and pranced so ungovernably, that he every
instant feared being hurled into one of the
deep glens with which this wilderness
abounded. On the first sound of the
thunder, the alarmed animal became still
more restive; but as soon as the lightning
glared across its eyes, it reared itself, with
a horrible noise, on its hinder legs for a
- moment,
IDE WILLENBERG. 163
moment, and plunged forward into the
thickest, gloomiest, and most frightful
part of the forest.
Between the pauses of the blast, the
rough voices of several men in conversa
tion were heard; but what they said, he
could not distinguish, they spoke in so low
a tone: he knew not whether to hail this,
as a signal of further danger, or of safety;
they might be travellers benighted, like
himself, in this intricate place, or (dreadful
probability!) they might be a horde ofban
ditti, waiting in ambush to rush upon
whatever unfortunate being the tempest,
and his unlucky stars, should lead thither,
to seek a refuge from the inclemency of
the night, waiting to plunder, and perhaps
assassinate him.
This idea was more appalling to him
than all the warring of the elements, and
dreading much less from the thunder's
crash, and the fierce blazes of the light
* ning,
164 DE WILLENBERG, .
ing, than from the treachery and cruelty
of man, he determined not to discover
himself, but remain quietly where he was,
until the rain at least should have sub
sided.
His horse was, however, by no means in
a humour to bear the beating of the storm
so calmly; it continued to kick and tear
up the ground, as if vying with the thun
der itselfin its ungovernable violence. In
a few minutes De Willenberg's apprehen
sions were realized; a shot was fired by
somebody in the direction whence he had
heard the voices, and the animal, now to
tally unmanageable, with a tremendous
bound, flung him off, and galloped away.
The shock was too great for his frame,
already almost paralysed by terror and
cold, to bear unhurt; all his senses at once
forsook him, and he lay motionless on the
ground. How long he had remained in
that state, he knew not; but as his percep
tions
DE WILLENBERG. I65
tions returned slowly, one of the first and
most discordant sounds that struck his ear,
was the same gruff voice he had before
heard amongst the trees, muttering just
loud enough to be intelligible—“ Pshaw!
why the devil do we stay here? I tell
you, Pierre, if we delay any longer, he will
die outright on the spot, and, in truth, I
have no great fancy for dragging dead lum
ber to the castle, nor do I believe that
count Ferdinand has any particular liking
for such unprofitable visitors.”
“What is to be done with him if he dies
before we reach the castle? We dare not
leave his body exposed here,” asked an
other voice, in a tone somewhat more gen
tle than the first. - -
“Done!” repeated a third, savagely ;
“why dig a hole, and bury him at once,
and there will be an end of him.”
“Holy saints! bury him in such a place
without priest or Bible!” ejaculated the
one who had asked the question.
“By the mass, that is a good one!” cried
his
I66 DE WILLENBERG.
his companions, with a loud laugh ;
“priest and Bible! hah, hah a pretty
milk-and-water sort of a fellow you are!
but, egad! if we want a priest, you shall be
our man; that damned comical old hypo
critical phiz of yours looks as if you were
reading the funeral service for the dead
already.”
“And you and I will sing his dirge
over a bottle of stout old hock or constan
tia,” exclaimed the first speaker, which
happy conceit elicited a still louder laugh.
From such a conversation De Willen
berg could augur nothing very favourable.
There was little reason to doubt that they
belonged to a gang of desperadoes; and if
so, he had fallen completely into their
hands, for, armed only with a harquebuss
and dagger, had he even possessed the
full bodily power of resistance, he was
aware how useless and absurd it would be
to contend against such a force as theirs;
but opposition was quite out of the ques
tion;
DE WILLENBERG. 167
tion; his fall had stunned, and in many
places severely bruised him; and if they
were the characters he apprehended, he
saw that he had no alternative, and must
resign himself patiently to his fate.
On opening his eyes, he found himself
supported by two men of ferocious and
forbidding aspect, who, in tones as unpre
possessing as their countenances, congra
tulated him on his narrow escape from
death. The other, the one who had ap
peared to be so shocked at the idea of
consigning him unceremoniously to an
unhallowed grave, was masked; and as
De Willenberg's languid eyes ran faintly
over his figure, he seemed endeavouring
to shrink from observation.
“Well, senor,” said one of the men,
raising Theodore upon his feet, “as this
is no very comfortable birth for the night,
what think you of going to a snug one
with
168 DE WILLENBERG.
with us hard by, under as hospitable a
roof as ever sheltered you from the fury
of the black gentleman; for as sure as
hell was made for those who choose to go
there, the devil is out on his rounds to
night; and, as the moon usually pops her
head behind a cloud as black as himself
when he appears, he has brought a few
tons of brimstone to light him along, and
the very sky thunders to let us know he
is coming.” ... "
“By St. Peter, then,” said another, “if
he is coming for us, I must beg to be ex
cused a little longer; I am not tired of
my life yet.” -
“Ay, ay, Fredolf,” cried Pierre, “all
in good time, my honest fellow I war
rant, when he does come for you, it will
be high time for you to go. What think
gyou, good ladylike gentleman, or what
ever you please to call yourself?” con
tinued he, addressing the one in the
mask.
* That
DE WILLENBERG. 169
* That he would not be so unkind as
to leave you here after your comrade,” re
torted the latter. -
Of this one alone could De Willenberg
form any sort of a favourable opinion.
With regard to the others, still some
doubts hung over his mind. Whether
they were actually in the service of a ban
dit, he had yet to learn, although their
language and sentiments shewed them to
be ruffians of the most diabolical cast.—
“Let us away,” said they, each taking an
arm of Theodore, and leading, or rather
pulling him on, not very gently—“Come,
my boy,” said Pierre, “come with us, and
we will give you a treat, and I warrant, by .
this time to-morrow, you will feel neither
ache nor bruise, nor any thing else the
matter with you.” -
“Ay, ay,” added Fredolf, “my lord
count has prepared a glittering supper for
him; but by all that's infernal, there he
comes himself yonder!”
VOL. II. I “The
170 DE WILLENBERG.
“The devil!” vociferated the wretch to
whom he spoke.
“No, but his brother, the arch-devil;
we were sure of seeing one of the holy
family at our heels to-night; but mum, -
Pierre, for his lordship looks as grim as
the king of hell himself.”
With all the dastard servility that be
trays at once the villain and the coward,
they were immediately silenced by the
approach of a tall commanding-looking
man, who seemed, from the respect they
paid him, to be their chief: his deport
ment was majestic, and calculated to exact
their deference: he was of middle age,
and his features, which evidently had been
very handsome, and still were partly so,
wore an expression of severe majesty, that
shewed a determined spirit in every thing
he undertook: his eye was large, dark, and
piercing, and seemed as if at will it could
dart glances of fire; his voice was natural
ly
DE WILLENBERG. 171
ly harsh and haughty; and in no very pre
possessing tone he now demanded of Fre
dolf what had detained them out so long;
to which the latter replied, as calmly as
his savage nature would permit—“We
have but obeyed your orders, my lord, in
delaying; therefore you should not call us
to account.” -
“Beware!” interrupted the stern chief;
then softening his manner into more cour
tesy than it was obvious he was accus
tomed to assume, he turned to De Wil
lenberg—“Stranger,” said he, “you have
apparently been a sufferer from the storm;
you look faint and ill, as if you were
wounded: I pray you say what has hap
pened?”
“On my road towards home, signior,”
replied Theodore, in Italian, the tongue
in which he had been addressed, “fearing
no danger while I could defend myself, I.
entered this forest, both in order to arrive
there more speedily, and to be in safety
- I 2 from
172 DE WILLENBERG.
from the storm. Scared by the lightning
that flashed around almost incessantly, my
horse grew restive, and hurled me insensi
ble to the earth, where these your atten
dants found me.”
“Luckily they did, or here had you
perished,” said Ferdinand.
“Ay, count, he might have been rob
bed and murdered by some of the blood
spilling gentry that prowl about this in
fernal place,” observed Pierre, recalling
the assurance which seldom, but in pre
sence of his master, forsook him.
“It might have been,” said De Willen
berg, roused beyond himself by the re
mark, “ and possibly my sword might
have sent a few of them out of the world
before me.”
“You carry arms about you, young
man?” presumed Ferdinand, fixing his
full dark eyes on him, in which there was
an infinitude of meaning. -
- “I do, signior,” answered the other,
; : with
DE WILLENBERG. 173
with striking emphasis, returning his
gaze, “and know how to make use. of
them.”
“Well, well, we are not going to put
your skill in that way to the test,” retort
ed the chief, rather disconcerted; “but,”
added he, brightening in a moment,
“come along, I dare say you are a brave
young fellow, and I am the count Ferdi
nand Velasco; if you will accept to-night
a refuge in my castle, which is at no great
distance, you will be a welcome guest.”
“That he will, and a profitable one,”
muttered the mysterious character in the
mask, in an under-tone, but so as to be
heard by De Willenberg, who seemed to
move on mechanically, at a loss to know
what he ought to infer from this strange
association of ruffianly insolence and po
liteness. To betray any suspicions of
what they were, or their designs, would,
he knew, be unsafe, should those suspicions
be well founded; should they not be so,
it would be highly ungenerous towards
- - I 3 one
174 DE WILLENBERG.
one whose hospitality he was now con
strained to accept, in his almost helpless
situation, and who, however appearances
were against him, might perhaps conceal,
under a rough exterior, an excellent and
feeling heart.
The total air of mystery which the
masked stranger wore perplexed him still
more, for his manner and his words were
those of a friend, and one particularly, but
secretly, interested for him.
• Confident of this, he resolved, should
an opportunity occur, to question him;
and, as if in perfect safety while near him,
he became less apprehensive, and accom
panied them to the castle, as fast as his
bruises would permit.
They seemed well acquainted with all
the intricacies and all the difficulties and
dangers of the forest. A chain of rocks
on either side now bounded the road,
forming
IDE WILLENBERG. 175
forming a long and narrow defile, over
hung in many places by the projecting
cliffs, and in others by the tall firs and
pines that grew at their base, so closely
intermingled, that even the vivid light
ning, which still continued to illumine the
face of the heavens, could not penetrate
them.
Their progress was frequently impeded
by fragments of rocks, which the moulder
ing hand of Time had separated, and by
the underwood that grew there profuse
ly.
. As they advanced, a faint murmuring
of water broke on the ear, through the in
tervals of the blast; and presently a small,
but rapid current presented itself, gliding
through the excavations of the rocks, and
sweeping past the branches, that drooped
beneath its surface, with an increased noise,
that altogether added to the horrors of the
I 4 Scene,
176 DE WILLENBERG,
scene, though none but De Willenberg
himself seemed to notice it.
At the further extremity of the defile,
a rude bridge, constructed of some pieces
of timber, stretched from one rock to an
other, across the water, which now swelled
into a broader stream, and was again lost
at some distance amongst the trees.
Not without considerable danger of
falling from the unsteady planks, they
crossed this temporary bridge, and having
gained the opposite side, Pierre and Fre
dolf removed part of it, so as to prevent
access to others, while Theodore, with the
count and his masked attendant, moved
slowly on.
They now descended into a deep and
horribly gloomy dell, through which a
path, rugged and uneven, wound amongst
overhanging briars, that often impeded
them,
DE WILLENBERG, 177
them, and gave to the whole place such a
wild and uncultivated appearance, that
one would rather have supposed it to be
the haunt of lions, tigers, and other savage
beasts of prey, that had never beheld the
“human face divine,” than an avenue
leading to the abode of man.
. They stopped at length under the brow
of a huge cliff, that seemed as if suspend
ed in the air, ready every moment to fall
and annihilate them; and removing some
of the brambles and brushwood that crept
along the ground, Fredolf grasped a massy
ring of rusty iron, that had lain concealed
in a receptacle made for it; and the next
moment,employingall hisstrength to draw
from its place an enormous trap-door, he
discovered, to the almost petrified De
Willenberg, by the hideous glare of a
torch that blazed within, a black and di
lapidated stone staircase, which they bade
him descend, Pierre going first to carry
the light.
I 5. Lgoking,
178 DE WILLENBERG.
Looking from the top, all was profound
and unvaried darkness; and instantly the
horrid idea occurred to De Willenberg,
that they had trepanned him into a tomb,
and were about to enclose him in the re
gions of the dead. He recoiled aghast
from the infernal-looking gulph, and, for
getting his previous caution—“Gracious
Heaven" he exclaimed, “whither, are we
going?” at the same time turning his eyes
towards the one in the mask, as if he could
have snatched him from whatever dreadful
fate might await him. That one, on the
instant, contrived to glide towards him,
and evidently fearful of observation, whis
pered in his ear—“Be cautious—be si
lent” when just as he had uttered the
words, he encountered the fiercely-rolling
eye of the chief, who, darting on him a
scowl almost diabolical, commanded him
to go down with Pierre, and they would
follow. - -
“You see, signior,” rejoined the chief,
addressing
DE WILLENBERG. 179
addressing De Wiklenberg again, “you
see this our ancient mansion is strongly
fortified both by nature and art; it was
built by my forefathers, at a time when
all Poland was disturbed by internal con
flicts of the most direful and sanguinary
description. These barriers were deemed
‘necessary, and often successful, in prevent
ing the incursions of the enemy, into ma
my which they would otherwise have
plundered and then razed from their foun
dations; and even to this very day, the
secret of removing them, to obtain ingress
and egress, is known but to myself and a
few others, and of those few none dare
use such a secret unworthily, knowing me.
so well as they do.”
He said the last words with so much
emphasis, and glanced alternately at De
Willenberg and the mask so significantly,
that the former could not help putting an
unfavourable construction on them, and
giving up every hope of any assistance
: . I 6 from
I 80 DE WILLENBERG.
from the one whose friendship he wished
to be assured of; and the latter turned
away, and began to descend the steps with
Pierre.
Theodore, however, remembered his in
junction, and without further opposition,
accompanied count Ferdinand and the
others in their descent, confident that the
interdict against his murmuring or evin
cing any unwillingness, must have had
some particular meaning connected with
his personal safety.
But their difficulties were not yet ter
minated. After winding down a spiral
staircase, damp, and in many places so
broken as to render their footing uncer
tain, they alighted on a small square plat
form; and Pierre, touching a brass spring,
instantly a little door, so ingeniously fixed
in the wall that only the nicest obser
vation could discover it, flew open, and
presented on the outer side an arm of the
Stream
IDE WILLENBERG. 181
stream they had before crossed, but of
much broader expanse. Its surface was
ruffled by a cascade at some distance,
pouring its torrents into it; and a small
boat, which was moored close to the bank,
was tossed to and fro by the agitation of
the water.
The storm still raged with unabated
force, and the thunder, awfully reverbe
rated amongst the neighbouring rocks,
almost made them believe that the very
earth itself had opened, and sent forth,
from its black and frightful caverns, all
the mischiefs of the infernal world, to add
to the general commotion.
Impatient to reach the castle, Pierre
rushed out, and also his masked compa
nion, in order to unfasten the boat; the
others yet remained in shelter within.
“This is an awful night,” observed the
latter.
“ Awful!”
82 IDE WILLENBERG.
“Awful!” repeated the hardened Pierre,
with a sarcastic and fiendlike grin, “damn
me, that is a good one! why, zounds !
what are you so cursedly afraid of, and
we both promised to the devil already?
Confound him! do his worst, he can but
whirl us away with him, in one of these
yellow blazes, to hell at once "
At this dreadful fatal moment, the Di
vinity, whose omnipotence he had appa
rently altogether forgotten, hurled upon
the abandoned and impious wretch his
most tremendous and direful vengeance:
a thunderbolt, so loud that it appeared to
shake the whole firmament, rolled through
the atmosphere, like the noise of ten
thousand cannons, succeeded almost in
stantaneously by a flash of lightning,
which, sweeping over his devoted head,
struck him to the earth a corpse, and his
mysterious companion fell senseless beside
‘him.
CHAP
DE WILLENBERG. 183
CHAPTER VII.
were4-wºº wºrºw-ºr-º-º-º-ºperºr
Nor here the radiant sun, at brightest noon,
E'er smiles with cheerful rays, but feebly casts
A dim, discoloured, and uncertain light;
No pilgrim enters here, unless misled;
But hasteus far, with cautious steps, away;
And beckons travellers from the fatal road.
TAsso's Jerusalem.
DE WILLENBERG, the chief, and even
the ruffian Fredolf, stood for some mi
nutes horror-struck and motionless, on
beholding so terrible, so undeniable a
proof of the divine wrath. Never before
had they witnessed the judgment of Hea
ven upon guilty mortals so manifest or so
tremendous, and a simultaneous ejacu
lation for its protection burst from each of
them.—“Lord of Heaven preserve us!”
cried
I84 I)E WILLENBERG,
cried Fredolf, at length venturing forward,
to raise the two inanimates from the wet
bank on which they lay extended—“Lord
of Heaven preserve us, and keep us from
such a death !”
“Amen, amen" fervently responded
Theodore and the count, as they proceed
ed to assist him. -
The body of Pierre was heavy, and to
tally devoid of life; the cold moisture of
death had spread all over it, and to lift it
required all Fredolf's strength; but in the
other the vital spark, though it seemed
rapidly expiring, was not yet wholly ex
tinct. Convinced that to revive him was
still in their power, the humane Theodore
promptly began chafing his hands and
temples; but the chief more wisely sug
gested the danger of delaying there, and
that if any chance remained of their being
able to recover him, they had better pro
. ceed with all possible expedition to the
castle. -
- He
IDE WILLENBERG. 185
He was quickly convinced of this, and
helping them to disengage the boat from
its fastening, they laid Pierre's corpse along
the bottom of it; and the count and De
Willenberg supporting the other sufferer
in their arms, Fredolf took the oars in his
muscular hands, and rowed away.
All thoughts of his own danger had
fled from Theodore's generous mind at the
instant of their awful fate; and now called
upon to assist in saving the life of a fellow
creature, his exertions, notwithstanding
the effects of his fall, were even far beyond
their usual pitch, and the strength he had
acquired in thus rousing himself seemed
more than mortal. Intent on preserving
their charge, if possible, from a death so
premature, so horrible, every thing else
was to him a consideration of minor im
portance, nor thought he of any thing be
sides, until his arrival at the decayed and
time-worn mansion of the chief.
On
186 DE WILLENBERG.
On landing from the boat, Fredolf took
out a small bugle that hung within his
vest, and sounding it so loudly that it
was echoed almost throughout the forest,
three men presently made their appear
ance from behind a huge oak tree, whose
immense and ponderous branches concealed
the entrance of a long vaulted passage,
that led immediately to the interior of the
castle. Their countenances were harsh
and ruthless, but their naturally-gruff
voices softened into tones of servility,
when they beheld their chief, whom it
was evident that they feared more than
they respected. . -
They eyed De Willenberg with a ma
lignant expression that boded him no good,
but in his attention to his charge this es
caped his observation.—“Come, Valen
time,” said the chief, addressing one of
them, “do you and Lopez assist to carry
home Pierre, your dead comrade—you
did not expect him home in this state.”
“Poor
IDE WILLENBERG. 187
, “Poor Pierre it is all over with him,
my lord, sure enough,” said they, unfeel
ingly, as they slung him, neck and heels,
, across their broad athletic shoulders.
“Ay, ay,” suggested Valentine; “egad!
the unfortunate devil has got a few bullets
in his sconce at last. Many a corpse have
these two shoulders borne to the grave,
but curse me if ever I carried one so heavy
as this before!—but come along, my lad.”
“Shall I lend your excellenza an arm
to carry that other dead body?” asked
Juan. -
. “No, no,” replied Ferdinand; “this
signior here (meaning De Willenberg),
Fredolf, and myself, will take care of him;
do you take up the torch, and lead the
22
way. . . . .
Fredolf now secured their little vessel,
after which, pushing, aside some of the
oak branches, a door in the rock, almost
, concealed by moss and weeds, admitted
them into the vault; and having rendered
their
w
188 EXE WILLENBERG.
their safety quite certain, by bolting it,
and drawing a huge chain across the in
side, they proceeded through the dreary
passage, which, as they went on, expanded
so considerably in height and breadth, that
the echo of their footsteps at every tread
sent a sound almost terrific through the
whole subterranean space.
A large door at the farther end, of cu
rious workmanship, and having all the
appendages of bolts and locks for security,
at length was thrown open, and they en
tered a spacious hall, of Gothic architec
ture. It appeared to have been built in
the style of at least two centuries before,
for every thing bore marks of the ravages
of time; and some nearly illegible inscrip
tions on the tattered and faded tapestry
that hung here and there, and apparently
had formerly extended all round, at once
proclaimed its vast antiquity. From its
length and height it had, to all appearance,
been a banquetting-room; and in a gallery
- at
DE WILLENBERG. 189
at one extremity, supported by columns
of fluted marble, still hung in many places
the moth-eaten banners of some ancient
and illustrious house.
On the spacious pannels of the oak
wainscot hung two full-length portraits,
each surmounted by a coronet, massive
and richly gilt. The figures were scarcely
distinguishable through the sheet of dust ,
that covered them; but as far as might be
judged from the highly-finished style in
which they had been executed, and the
air of majesty and grandeur they exhibit
ed, it seemed probable that they were the
likenesses of former owners of the castle.
Two men and an old woman were wait
ing the return of the party, and the mo
ment they entered, the wrinkled cheeks of
the latter became blanched with horror at
sight of the corpse.—“Here, old Hobble
Gobble,” said they, advancing towards her,
“here is a whole carcase of human beef
for
190 DE WILLENBERG.
for you, fair and fresh, for it is just now
killed.”
“Jesu Maria” cried Jacintha, averting
her face from the frightful spectacle; “it
is Pierre himself!—killed ! oh, God forgive
his wicked life, and receive his soul!”
“Hey-dey ! good mother Mock-devil,
give us none of your preaching, but tell
us what you have got for supper to-night?”
“We will have this to-morrow night,”
added Lopez, with a facetious grin; then
seeing count Ferdinand approaching close
to them, he asked, with an air of profound
gravity, how they were to dispose of the
body? . .
“Take it to the charnel-house, and bury
it at once,” replied the chief.
And whisperingJacintha that she should
have another instead of it the next night,
they promptly proceeded to obey the order,
and consign the corpse of the ill-fated
wretch to the last gloomy receptacle of
mortality. - -
- “Now,
e *
DE willENBERG. 191
“Now, dame Jacintha, for your good
offices,” said the chief; “we have never
called upon your humanity in vain, so
now we pray you summon up all your
skill and all the kindness of your gentle
nature, and with some of your potent
drugs and cordials, restore this half-dead
man to life again.—Here, Fredolf, do you
and Gregory support him in your arms to
his bed-room.”
In her terror at the sight of the corpse,
and the savage observations of Lopez,
Jacintha had not perceived that there was
another also in a state to demand their
attention, until Ferdinand made this ap
peal to her. Turning suddenly round, and
seeing who it was, a shriek of horror sud
denly burst from her—“Holy Virgin' is
he also dead?” cried she, and gasping con
vulsively, as if to retain life and reason
within her own bosom, she reeled against
one of the pillars for its support. -
“What is the meaning of all this agi
tation?” demanded the chief, alternately
- - gazing
192 IDE WILLENBERG.
gazing at her, and the object of her
alarm.
His voice of thunder electrified her.
She looked as if she had involuntarily be
trayed some important secret, and, as well
as her confusion would permit, she stam
mered out—“Good, my lord, nothing in
deed—nothing, I assure your excellenza;
I thought he was—that is, I mean it would
have been so very terrible if they were
both dead, and 22
“How now, old Squeamish " inter
rupted Fredolf; “I wonder what there
would have been so very terrible in this,
when, I would lay my life, you have seen
a few scores of dead bodies before now !
You are a little nervous, I suppose—ha,
ha! capital!—by my faith ! if you had but
a fan, and were to faint for a few minutes,
and then slowly recover, with the help of
a glass of water, you could play off the
modern fine lady to the very life.”
“How can you be so unfeeling?” asked
the offended domestic.
“And
DE WILLENBERG. 193
“And so loquacious in my presence?”
added the chief, with a haughty frown,
from which Fredolf instantly slunk away.
—“Come now, Jacintha,” he continued,
“as they are not both dead, and this one
is merely a little scorched and terrified by
the lightning, employ all your potent skill
in bringing him to himself again.”
Jacintha's countenance again brightened
with hope.—“Ay, my lord, that I will,”
she joyfully exclaimed; “Santa Maria be
praised there is still some life in him—I
thought it was all over with him too.”
She now approached, and for the first
time noticed De Willenberg, with a look
of pity and alarm that spoke volumes to
him. She appeared to be about to say
something, but the chief narrowly ob
serving her, awed her with a frown into
perfect silence, and bade her accompany
her patient.
“Come along, old Jezebel,” said Gre
WOL. II. K gory,
194 IDE WILLENBERG.
gory, instantly comprehendingFerdinand's
significant glance; “come along, if it wont
shock your virgin modesty to enter a
man's bedroom;” and stealing another
look at Theodore, she disappeared with
her charge.
De Willenberg now sat down, to rest
his wearied frame, on an antique couch,
that stood in a corner mouldering to de
cay, and glanced fearfully round the hall,
while all his suspicions of treachery on the
part of his host revived. All he had yet
seen was mystery, and his mind's eye re
traced the strange and terrible events of
the last few hours in as many minutes.
He could not help thinking that his fall
ing into the power of these people, if they
were, as he suspected, a gang of banditti,
was by no means the mere effect of chance,
but a premeditated plot between them and
somebody who might possibly wish for
his death. He recollected the admonitory
letter, and sometimes fancied it had been
written
DE WILLENBERG. 195
written to lure him into the very dangers
of which it spoke. Then again this sup
position appeared illiberal and ungrateful,
and he believed that the kindest motives
alone had actuated the writer, who could
certainly not have foreseen what had oc
curred. It might also be uncharitable
and unjust, from a few unfavourable ap
pearances, to conclude at once that they
were characters so disgraceful to mankind;
though the language of most of them
plainly evinced that their hearts were de
praved, and their minds uncultivated.
The character of their chief, too, seemed
to be an extraordinary compound of fero
city and hospitality; but what appeared
to him the most unaccountable, was their
scrupulously avoiding mentioning the
name of the person who wore the mask.
He had some doubts as to his being one
of their community; but were he even
such, it was evident, whatever their mode
of life or their crimes might be, that he
either was not a participator in them, or,
K 2 - at
196 DE WILLENBERG's
at all events, was a reluctant one; from
the caution he had received to beware of
betraying his fears, he scarcely knew what
to conclude, nor was he less at a loss to
guess the meaning of Jacintha's looks, as
she quitted the hall. If danger there
were, he thought the unhappy victim of
Pierre's impiety might have been of use
to him, and on that account he doubly re
gretted his absence, and was doubly soli
citous that he should recover, though he
strove not to let that solicitude be ob
served.
His mind, however, was in so confused
and agitated a state, and every thing round
him had such a doubtful appearance, that
the chief, as if reading his very thoughts,
quickly came up to him.—“Pardon my
leaving you for a few minutes, signor,”
said he; “but expecting some guests here
to-night, I wish to see that they are pro
perly accommodated, previous to the cere
mony of introducing you to them; should
- you
DE WILLENBERG. 197
you require any thing before my return,
Lodovico will attend to your commands.”
With a courteous bow he now left him,
and ascending a staircase of black marble,
that led to the upper apartments, was soon
out of sight.
The moment he was fairly gone, Lodo
vico approached De Willenberg, and, with
a degree of insolent familiarity, demanded
how he liked his present quarters, and
what he thought of the people about him?
Theodore would have repelled him with
the contempt he felt, and which the other
deserved; but hoping to glean something
from the man's conversation, that might
either dissipate or confirm his doubts, he
did not discourage him, but circumspectly
replied—“I have had worse quarters be
fore now, for I have slept in a field of
battle; as to the people, it is scarcely fair
to ask my opinion of them yet—that must
K 3 be
198 DE WILLENBERG.
be determined by their treatment of a be
nighted stranger.” -
“Treatment!” echoed Lodovico; “you
will have the best of treatment; why,
confound me! if the castle is not as cram
med with company as it can be, from top
to bottom; and count Ferdinand, who
is as hearty a fellow as ever cracked a
bottle, means to give us all a jovial supper
to-night; and if you do not call that good
treatment, damn me if I know what you
do ’’ -
“I thank you, my friend,” said De
Willenberg, “but indeed I wish not for
festivity—it would ill accord with my
feelings, unwell as I really am from the
bruises I received in falling from my
horse in the forest. Mirth would now be
irksome to me, for I am neither calculated
to enjoy it myself, nor to impart it to
others; the only favour I would further
request of the count is, when I have had
the refreshment of a little food, "that I
might
DE WILLENBERG. 199
might be permitted to retire to bed—I am
much, very much in need of repose.”
“That, I suppose, he will leave to your
own discretion, signor; but eurse me if
ever I was such a fool as to sneak off to
bed whenever there was a good supper,
and a bottle of wine, in the way; and I
say you are a fool if you do so now.”
Still, even upon this unmannerly speech,
De Willenberg forbore to retaliate.—“I
think I should be more comfortable in
bed than here,” observed he, gazing round
the hall, through which two small lamps,
hung at either extremity, threw a dim
and uncertain light, scareely more than
sufficient to render “darkness visible.”
A ghastly grin spread over Lodovico's
pale visage as he drawled out—“Ay,
ay, signor, you will soon be comfortable
and quiet enough, I warrant; you do not
mind a hard bed, you say, do you?”
“No, but why do you ask the ques
tion?”
“Beeause I think you will have but a
K 4 sorry
200 DE WILLENBERG.
sorry sort of accommodation in that way;
marry! we have got such a pack of visitors
here to-night, that when half of them fall
dead drunk under the table, as they will
do by the dozen just now, egad there
they may stay and snore snugly until
morning—we have only beds enough for
the other half.” -
“I fear, then, I shall be considered an
intruder,” observed De Willenberg.
“ No, no, signor, do not fear such a
thing; we have always a bed for a stranger
in the western turret, though the place,
to be sure, is a little dreary; but you must
not mind that—many a brave fellow before
you has slept in it.”
“To wake no more!” added the voice
of some invisible being, in a hollow and
sepulchral sound, that ran in a slow and
dismal echo through the hall, and chilled
all the blood in the alarmed De Willen
berg's frame almost to an icy coldness.
“Good God! what does that mean?”
inquired he, staring wildly around.
“Nothing,
DE WILLENBERG. 201
“Nothing, nothing, signor!” replied Lo
dovico, in evident perturbation, “nothing
at all; it was but the wind whistling
through that great casement yonder: bless
you! this whole dreary pile is as old as Me
thusalem himself—we hear these strange
noises every night in the year—but where
is the wonder of that?” why there never
was a dismal old castle like this in the
world without spectres and ghosts.”
As he said this, he shook involuntarily
from head to foot, and turned paler than
before, which soon betrayed that either
superstition, or the workings of his con
science, operated powerfully on him, in
spite of the tone of incredulity in which
he spoke.
De Willenberg was, however, not such
a lover of the marvellous, or so credulous,
as to be satisfied with this evasive obser
vation, though so plausibly delivered; his
apprehensions of treachery and danger
R 5 Were
202 DE WILLENBERG.
w
were now at their height, and in all the
horror with which human nature shrinks
from the assassin's deadly blow, he fell
back on the couch, and uttered a deep
groan, while life's fresh and healthy hue
fled from his whole face, leaving there an
awful, ashy paleness resembling death.
A shrill whistle from Lodovico was the
instant signal for the appearance of ano
ther domestic, who, bearing a flask of
liquor, came running towards De Willen
berg—“Now, now!” cried Lodovico, as
he hastily snatched it, and applied it to
the lips of the latter; “here, signor, is a
cup of our very best Falernian; come,
drink it off, and it will make a man of you
again.”
Nearly insensible, Theodore suffered
him to pour a small quantity of it down
his throat, which was parched with thirst
then feeling somewhat revived by it, he
was about to swallow the rest, when Ja
- cintha
DE WILLENBERG. 303
cintha returned, and running over, appa
rently to assist them in recovering him,
she either intentionally or by accident
brought her arm in contact with the cup,
and dashed it, with its contents, on the
floor, where it was shivered into atoms.
“The devil take the blundering, med
dling old hag!” vociferated Lodovico,
pushing her with violence away; “what,
in the name of Lucifer, your father, brought
you here? I wish he had you fast in his
clutches once more.”
“Time enough when you are coming
with me,” retorted the enraged Jacintha;
“I warrant, when once you are safely
lodged with him, he will never part with
one who has sent him so many poor souls
as you have done.”
The noise of the cup falling, and this
subsequent altercation, tended to rouse
De Willenberg, who seeing the broken
vessel scattered on the floor, conceived that
K 6 she
204 DE WILLENBERG.
she had destroyed it from the best mo
tives—that she had preserved him perhaps
from being poisoned, for he doubted not
that it had contained some baneful and
venomous drug : he looked what he dared
not speak—his gratitude to her.
She was about to address him, when
Fredolf observing both, (for the latter was
by this time returned to the hall), and
gazing on their proceedings, approached
her, and as if anticipating what she was
going to say—“Take care,” cried he, “take
care what you are about, woman" and he
fastened his eyes on her, as if they would
have pierced into her inmost thoughts.
Whatever his earnest and long-continu
ed gaze meant, she understood sufficient
from it to prevent her hazarding another
word, until, to her great relief, he was
gone; then, in a more submissive tone—
“Now, senor Lodovico,” said she, “ you
and that grim-faced Fredolf have said
your
DE WILLENBERG. 205
your worst, and after all, what was the
breaking of that cup but a mere accident?
it might have happened to yourself; but
if you wish, I will go and fetch some more
wine for this stranger, though, to be sure,
I do not much like a tramp down by the
black vaults and caverns to the cellar to
night, either for him or any body else.”
“No, no,” replied he, rather appeased,
“we will not send you on such a tramp
now ; the signor wishes to go to bed, and
no doubt that will be the best restorative
for him.”
“Ay,” said Jacintha significantly, “once
he gets there, his pains and aches will
very soon be over.”
De Willenberg comprehended much
from this ambiguous speech, perhaps more
than she meant; but again taking the
alarm—“I prefer,” said he, addressing Lo
dovico, “I prefer staying here to-night
to sleeping in the turret; my thoughts
are already of too melancholy a cast to
relish the gloom of such a place as you
have
206 DE WILLENBERG.
have described it, and if your lord will not
object to it, I shall sleep contentedly on
this couch.”
“Sleep here, senor!” screamed Jacintha,
in rather an alto tone; “holy saints de
fend us! I would not sleep in this hall,
for my part, for all the wealth of the uni
verse—God forbid I should ! Oh! such
groans as people have heard here at mid
night, and such a sight as Pierre saw here
one night before he died (Heaven rest his
soul!) a few minutes before the great old
clock in the eastern turret struck twelve—
a bloody corpse wrapped in a winding
sheet, and a coffin—Lord defend us! on
the very spot where you are now sitting.
Jesu ! how pale he looked when he told
me, and my blood turned as i 93.
“Hush, and be damned, you prating
old beldam " interrupted Lodovico; “can
nothing stop that infernal tongue ofyours?
Surely, senor, you are not so silly as to
believe a word of what she says.”
“I confess such stories appear to be
rather
DE WILLENBERG, 207
rather romantic and improbable,” replied
Theodore, half smiling at her impressive
earnestness.
“Improbable" echoed she petulantly;
“romantic and improbable, indeed! migh
ty well but I have often told people the
very same things before, and none of them
would believe me until it was too late
more to their cost; ay, many a poor be
nighted traveller, like yourself, have I
warned.”
“And now,” said Lodovico, “let me
warn you that you had better travel in
stantly down stairs, and not stand gossip
ing your foolery here any longer—away!”
The offended dame muttered out her
indignation at being treated thus, and was
sullenly marching off, when De Willen
berg, unable to conceal his anxiety longer,
inquired how she had left her patient, and
whether he was likely to survive?
“Yes, yes!” she hastily replied, as if
grateful
208 DE WILLENBERG.
grateful for having her tongue again called
into action; “thanks to the Virgin, and
my good care of him, he is coming to him
self as fast as he can '"
“And a pretty sort of a nurse you are,
you careless hag! to leave him at such a
time,” added Lodovico; “go, get you
back to him, and stay there, or any where
out of this.”
“Ah, God forgive you!” said she; “I
am sure, if I had not been afraid, and with
good reason too, that you were at some of
your old practices here, I should not have
done so; but I hope you will be quiet for
this night.”
“Egad! if you don't take yourself off
very quickly, I will quiet you, at all
events,” replied he ; and, alarmed lest he
should put his threat into execution, she
peaceably took her departure.
“What an everlasting plague that wo
man's tongue is!” said Lodovico, when she
was gone; “I would sooner listen to the
whizzing of a whole field of artillery. The
--> fool
IDE WILLENBERG. 209
fool would almost make one believe the
place was haunted, in good earnest.”
“Even if this hall is haunted,” suggest
ed Theodore, “I trust it is not in the
power of the dead to injure us; it is from
the living we have aught to fear; and,
fortunately, we can from them in general
defend ourselves; it is for the wicked
only to tremble at these terrors of the
imagination.”
“Ay, senor, all very easy talking; but,
in my humble opinion, it is better at any
time to fight with the living than the
dead; but, at all events, I am certain my
lord will never consent to let you pass the
night here.”
“Methinks, as it is my wish, he cannot.
refuse, consistently with the rules of cour
tesy and politeness; is there any particular
cause for his being averse to it—any mys
tery connected with the place?”
“Mystery No,” retorted Lodovico,
“there is no mystery; but the count may
have his own motives, which he may not
t choose
210 DE WILLENBERG.
choose to explain to every busybody who
asks.”
“Ofwhat family is the count?” inquired
Theodore, with an assumed air of indiffer
ence; “it must be very ancient, if this
castle is one of their estates.”
“I don’t know that neither; and, as I
am not over inquisitive, I never asked,
nor ever mean to trouble myself about it.
We are all well paid and well fed, and that
is enough for us to know; besides, count
Ferdinand desired that we should never
answer impertinent questions; but here
he comes himself—mayhap, he will tell
you.”
Unable to learn any thing satisfactory
from the wary Lodovico, De Willenberg
was angry with himself for not having at
first repelled his insolence, but the chief
approaching, withdrew for the present his
attention from him.
* , , , ,
“Now, senor,” said the latter, “let us
WaWe
IDE WILLENBERG. 211 -
wave the ceremonies of a new acquaint
ance; consider the house of your host as
your home, and his friendship and hospi
tality your claim. Come with me—I wish
to introduce you to our social party above,
and make you one of the number.”
“I thank you sincerely, my lord. Be
lieve me grateful for your kindness, but
indeed I would be excused; sadness and
gaiety are ill-adapted companions. I
should behold the smile of happiness, and
hear the voice of mirth, without feeling
their influence for a single moment. An
unaccountable melancholy hangs over me
to-night; therefore I pray you do not urge
me.”
“Young man, you appear to be appre
hensive of harm,” observed the chief, in a
tone of displeasure, and with something
mysterious in his looks, that made Theo
dore in reality so; “trust me, you are safe
beneath my roof, though I am ignorant
what it is you fear; your life and honour
are as sacred as my own; but Lodovico
shall
212 DE WILLENBERG.
shall conduct you to the apartment pre
pared for you, since you are so uncourte
ous as to repay my kindness, as you term
it, with suspicions—vile, damnable, un
manly suspicions! You may retire, sir!”
“Pardon, count, my—”
“No more of your lame excuses! the
gaiety of my table shall not be disturbed
by your mumpish melancholy whinings!”
“But hear me for a moment!” implored
Theodore.
“I will hear you not Lodovico, lead
the way to the turret.”
“Nay,” persisted Theodore, “I stir not
hence until you do hear me.”
“ Miscreant " exclaimed Ferdinand,
“do you presume to brave me, even in my
own mansion?" begone!” -
In an instant rage and indignation flash
ed furiously from the before-languid eyes
of De Willenberg—“ Accursed be the
tongue that dares to call me such!” cried
he, half-unsheathing his dagger; “defend
yourself, ifyou are a man!”
Quickly
DE WILLENBERG. 213
Quickly recollecting himself, and aware
that a word from the chief could sum
mon those who would immediately over
power him, he returned the weapon to its
CaSe.
“ Bravissimo, signor" said the chief,
laughing contemptuously; then his fea
tures darkening into a malicious and dia
bolical sneer—“Reserve your heroic cou
rage,” rejoined he, “until it is put to the
test;” and sarcastically wishing him a good
night, he reascended the marble staircase,
to join the party, whose noisy revelry was
heard above.
After Ferdinand had disappeared, De
Willenberg stood for some time fixed to
the spot, while a storm of passion was con
tending in his bosom against his better
reason. What but the most alarming
meaning was to be attached to the latter
words !
“Come
214 DE WILLENBERG.
*
“Come along, signor,” cried Lodovico,
roughly, “let me shew you to your cham
berat once; if you are so mulish as to re
fuse your supper, curse me if there is any
reason why you should keep me from
mine !”
“I wish not to do so, therefore you may
go to it as soon as you please; I repeat, I
prefer remaining here; this couch shall be
my bed to-night.”
“But the count says it shall not f" in
sisted the flippant and impudent domes
tic, grown bolder by having witnessed
Ferdinand's conduct to him; “and, be
sides that, you know beggars must not be
choosers.”
* Wretch!” said the almost infuriated
Theodore, “ is it because your master
would, coward-like, assail an individualso
completely in his power, and that of his
minions, that your tongue dares to give
vent to the venom of your black heart, in
language such as this? Repeat it, and on
the
DE WILLENBERG. 215
the instant shall this arm strike you tothe
ground.”
Awed and confounded by the unex
pected threat, a threat which he doubted
not would be put into execution, he ven
tured not a reply. Like all other swag
gering dastards, easily put down, a look
terrified him, and he slunk over to where
a lamp stood, on a mutilated table; and
taking it in his hand, he asked, in a sub
missive and respectful tone—“Is it your
pleasure, signor, to go to bed? I am ready
to attend you.” -
A look of silent contempt, and a motion
of his arm, was the only affirmative he
deigned him; and deeming it better to
make no further opposition, he followed
him the whole way, in the same unbroken
silence.
From the hall they proceeded through
asuccession oflow-roofed passages, through
which the wind howled dismally, and
which
216 DE WILLENBERG.
which terminated in a descent of broken
steps. The scene without was indeed a
dreary one—the storm had quite subsided
—the wind, that but a few minutes before
seemed to rock the very ground on which
they stood, was now no longer heard, and
nature had sunk into a calm, so awful and
profound, that it almost seemed to De
Willenberg as if the whole world, except
himself and his ruthless attendant, was laid
in eternal silence. The entire face of the
sky was cheerless and watery, and the pale
moon, as she languidly floated along,
looked sickly and drooping, as if exhaust
ed by the fatigue of bearing up so long
against the boisterous elements around her,
and the rain that had washed away her ra
diant beauties.
The most prominent objects in front
were the remains of an ancient chapel and
burial-grounds, beyond which stood the
turret; the path leading to it wound
amongst innumerable moss-covered graves,
: and
DE WILLENBERG. 217
and mouldering relics, that had formerly
decorated the chancel, were now lying in
many places in heaps of ruins.
The Gothic grandeur of days long past
still appeared through the air of desola
tion, and the awful hue of death and obli
vion, in which every object was now clad;
time had, on every side, left scattered
traces of its destructive course, and even
the massy walls of the turret seemed tot
tering through the tendrils of ivy that
crept thickly round it, from its base to the
tops of the battlements, the closely-inter
woven foliage of which afforded shelter to
the bat and owl, whose ominous shrieks
were loudly reverberated through the spa
cious interior.
Suddenly he stopped, for though his
understanding was comprehensive, and his
mind infinitely superior to the vulgarisms
of superstition, he was far from being a
sceptic, nor could he remain unconvinced,
VOL. II. L against
218 TE WILLENBERG.
against all the alarming occurrences of the
evening, or the awful and ill-boding aspect
of the scene now before him.
His busy imagination, at that moment,
conjured up a thousand dreadful images,
horrible and appalling to the eye of mor
tal; he fancied he saw the murderer's steel
glittering in the moonbeams, lifted against
his life! and as the terrible idea took pos
session of him, his features assumed a
frightful wildness, his cheeks grew deadly
pale, while fire gleamed from his eyes—
he caught the arm of the trembling Lo
dovico, with a violence that gave a sud
den shock to his whole frame. The look
he fixed on him was like the basilisk’s fa
tal gaze, and the terrified coward shrunk
before it, into all his natural insignifi
Can Ce.
“This,” thought Theodore, to himself,
“this is a murderer's vile minion this is
the hireling wretch would lead me to my
doom,
IDE WILLENBERG. 219
doom, and afterwards glut his avaricious
passions on luxuries and on gold, as the
price of my blood! Could I not now, in
one moment, annihilate a being so unim
portant, so hateful? cut him off, “with all
his imperfections on his head, and end my
fears at once?”
A sort of desperate frenzy seized him,
and innumerable impossibilities rushed
upon his brain; he would have fled, he
knew not how or whither—conquered
every obstacle—escaped through rocks,
mountains, and seas—done every thing
that Omnipotence alone could accomplish;
but the fit was transient ; had it continu
ed long, he would probably have followed
the first suggestion, and rid himself of one
so easily removed as Lodovico.
He soon became calm; his features gra
dually reassumed their natural expression;
he dropped the arm he had held, in si
L 2 lence,
220 DE WILLENBERG.
lence, and pointing towards the turret, he
motioned to his conductor to proceed.
With hurried steps the latter went on,
fearful that he would execute the dread
ful thought which his countenance had
indicated. -
Again De Willenberg stopped, and
seated himself upon one of the tombs in
the chancel, under an arch of a long ter
race-walk of wood, that appeared to have
formerly connected the turret with the
inhabited part of the castle; but it was
now so shattered in several places, and
so overgrown with briars and weeds,
from theadjoining walls, that it wastotally
impassable.
All around him presented fit subjects
for meditation; the pale light of the moon
gave an unusual solemnity to this abode of
death. Jessamines and wild flowers grew
1In
DE will ENBERG. 221
in profusion, and hung their sweet-scent
ed blossoms over the sanctified graves,
where many a hero lay in everlasting
sleep, as if to adorn the spot where their
mouldering relics reposed. A few letters,
here and there, were visible on some of
the dilapidated monuments, from which
he endeavoured to trace the names of the
departed; but the characters were of an
cient date, and in most places quite ille
gible. -
Absorbed in pious reflections, he re
mained for some time abstracted from his
own situation, and unmindful of the ef.
fects of the damp atmosphere, until recall
ed by Lodovico, who, returning towards
him, entreated, in a voice of anxious soli
citude, that he would no longer impru
dently expose himself to cold, by remain
ing seated amongst the wet grass and
weeds that waved about his legs.—“I am
sure, signor,” continued he, “there can
be nothing so very pleasant in sitting in a
L 3 cold
222 DE WILLENBERG.
cold churchyard, on such a night as this,
amongst graves, and old walls, and tomb
stones, when you have got any sort of a
roof to put your head under; and besides
that, if we delay so, my lord will be in
one of his usual moods with me, and I
shall get no supper.” -
Aware that it was imprudent, and see
ing that he must at all hazards endeavour
to pass the night in the turret, he went on.
Lodovico carried a small lamp, that merely
served to guide them to a long passage,
leading to a flight of steps, which they
ascended, and at the bottom of which a
trap-door was level with the earth, cover
ing the entrance to an immense vault.
The staircase was a spiral one, and in se
veral places broken and dangerous; it led
up to a spacious gallery, corresponding in
every respect with all the other parts of
this ancient building, and still retaining
numerous vestiges of its former magnifi.
cence; it was hung down the whole length
- with
f
DE WILLENBERG. 223
with tapestry and faded portraits; and at
the further end was the apartment allotted
to De Willenberg, which he entered with
out any symptom of fear; nor did he per
ceive that Lodovico was gone, until he
found himself seated in an old-fashioned
armchair, beside a fire of wood, in a large
decayed and uncomfortable room, whose
dreary aspect promised no diminution of
any thing he had to apprehend.
The glare reflected by the dull blaze on
the hearth served to shew the antique
paintings and hangings that had once
adorned the now damp and mouldering
walls; and as the light at intervals grew
dim, and then burst into a clear flame,
the tall martial figures, with their massy
helmets and plumes of black, appeared, to
his heated fancy, to move in all directions
round the room, and sometimes to beckon
him towards the obscurity into which they
vanished.
L 4 In
224 DE WILLENBERG,
In a dark corner stood a mutilated bed
stead, covered with old embossed tapestry,
and otherwise miserably furnished with a
few of the usual appendages; he almost
expected every moment to behold the
grim form of some midnight assassin
emerge from behind the dusky hangings,
or the bleeding spectre of some murdered
hero, whom this noble edifice had once
proudly owned as its lord.
As he continued to view these gloomy
and awe-inspiring objects, the mysterious
voice he had heard in the hall again re
curred to him, forcibly shewing all the
horrors of his situation; he was now in the
very chamber, where, remembering the
appalling words—“Many a brave fellow
had slept, to wake no more,” and in that
very bed, perhaps, before him. Over this
room there hung some dire fatality. What
scenes of butchery and bloodshed might
not its dark and massy walls have conceal
ed! What tortures, what sufferings, might
not
IDE WILLENBERG. 225
not these crested warriors have witnessed
here!
Again growing faint at the sickening
nature of his thoughts, he put up his
handkerchief, to wipe away the moisture
from his brow, and approaching the lat
tice, he opened it, to admit a current of
air; at the same moment a loud burst of
laughter and merriment was resounded
from a remote wing of the castle, the boi
sterous revelry of the chief and his profli
gate associates. Disgusted by the discor
dant peal, he hastily closed the lattice, and
a breeze of wind, that swept through the
apartment, turning the door on its rusty
hinges, it shut suddenly, with a terrifying
noise, that was reverberated through the
whole turret. He was now much more
alarmed than ever, for it closed by a spring
lock, that could only be pushed back by
a person outside; and whatever dangers
might here threaten him, he saw that it
was totally impossible to escapefrom them.
L 5. The
226 DE WILLENBISRG.
The fire was by this time nearly all
consumed, and the expiring embers threw
an intermingled light and shade a few
paces around them; the other parts of the
room were lost in darkness, except when
at intervals the swiftly-passing clouds that
veiled the sky, allowed a momentary ray
of moonshine to shew partially the dismal
objects towards which his eyes were di
rected. In vain he exerted all the scope
of memory to recognize the masked stran
ger, who had apparently felt so great an
interest for him; and he tried for a while
to cheer himself with a hope of his assist
ance; but vain, alas! was that hope. No
body came! Not a human voice—not a
footstep—not the breath of mortal, was
distinguishable in that untenanted part of
the castle.
A drowsy languor had for the last half.
hour been gradually stealing over him,and
he felt as if it was benumbing all his fa
culties; his perceptions were certainly be
coming
I)E WILLENBERG, 227.
coming less clear, and his sense of danger
every moment less and less acute, as if
under the incipient effects of a powerful
soporific. Unable to overcome it, he de
termined to lie down, and approached the
bed with firmness and resolution, not
withstanding the terrible mystery con
nected with it. 2.
With a steady hand he drew aside the
curtains; nothing within them was visible
but the bedclothes. He spoke, and heard
only his voice and its dismal echo, in re
turn; and recommending himself to the
protection of Heaven, he threw aside his
outside cloak, and turned down part of
the dark rug that served as a coverlid, in
order to stretch himself beneath it, which
he was just about to do, when the sight
of a long streak of blood, that stained the
sheet, startled him with almost Galvanic
power, and for a while again brought back
his fleeting senses.
L 6. Suddenly -
228 DE WILLENBERG.
Suddenly his hand grew cold; he drop
ped the curtain, and retreated a few paces
from the shocking sight; he flew to the
door, but all his exertions to force it open
were unavailing; and he was at last com
pelled to desist, by the frightful noises it
sent through the gallery.
He once more opened the lattice, but a
strong grating of iron outside forbade a
hope of being able to escape that way;
and with a quickly-palpitating heart, he
again threw himself on the chair he had
quitted, to consider if there were any pos
sible means of delivering himself from this
death-boding apartment. None, however,
could he perceive.
Again he recollected the dreadful and
prophetic words he had heard in the hall,
and he fancied that he now heard them
repeated in the same horrifying tones—
“In this bed many a one had slept to
wake no more!”—“Gracious Providence!
Carl
DE WILLENBERG, 229
can such a doom really await me?” he eja
culated. “Shall I venture to stretch my
self, where soon I might be numbered
with those hapless victims of rapine and
assassination? Yet wherefore,” thought
he, “wherefore should they take away
my life? By my death they can gain no
thing—no booty will reward them for the
sanguinary deed. My death, therefore,
can surely only serve to gratify a spirit
that gluts itself on murder and on human
blood. But such spirits are here to be
found amongst this horde of ruthless and
abandoned villains;” and in the conscious
ness of this, the demoniac form of Pierre,
in fancy, stood before him, his soul-har
rowing and blasphemous expressions still
sounding in the atmosphere he contami
nated.
Trembling at the recollection of this
wretch's fate, De Willenberg joined a
prayer for forgiveness to him with those
for his own safety; for every thing, and
In Ore
330 DE WII,I,ENBERG;
more especially the appellation of “chief.”
by which the others spoke of Ferdinand,
now plainly convinced him that he was in
the power of a murderous troop of ban
ditti.
His mind had hitherto disclaimed every
thing bordering on superstition; but he
now could not help admitting the possi
bility of a Superior Power being commis
sioned to warn the innocent from the ma
chinations of the wicked.
Growing every moment more sleepy,
he had not the power of reflecting further
upon his situation, or bethinking that this
unusual drowsiness was probably owing
to the portion he had drank of the wine
presented to him in the hall by Lodovico,
and which, fortunately for him, Jacintha
had dashed from him, in time to prevent
his drinking the whole of it. -
The same inclination to sleep had now
returned;
º
DE WILLENBERG. 23.1
returned; he could resist its influence no
longer, and in spite of all that was to be
feared, he again sought the bed. Ere he
reached it, his eyes were nearly closed;
the drowsiness became unconquerable, and
aspirating a short but fervent prayer, he
lay down.
He was quickly buried in a profound
sleep, in which state he had been about
two hours, when a terrific dream startled
him, and he almost awoke. An uneasy
slumber however succeeded, disturbed
by horrible imaginings, until he felt, or
fancied he felt, as if the whole bed was in
motion. -
In less than the space of a minute all
doubt was changed to certainty; a large
trap-door underneath slowly receded, and
ere he was sufficiently roused to spring
- from the hideous gulf that yawned to re
ceive him, he was lowered, bed and all,
into a deep and spacious vault, one of
- death's
* *
232 IDE WILLENBERG.
death's blackest, gloomiest caverns, into
which the light of the sun had never pe.
netrated.
CHAP
DE WILLENBERG. 233
CHAPTER VIII.
**-ºr-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º
But that I am forbid, •e
I could a tale unfold, whose lightest word
Would harrow up thy soul. SHA RESPEARE.
ForTUNATELY for De Willenberg, his
presence of mind was at all times equal to
his courage, though such a shock might
have benumbed the courage and powers
of the most intrepid. On either side of
him stood two men, of a diabolical appear
ance, each holding in one hand a lighted
torch, and in the other an unsheathed
dagger. Their meteor eyes glared horri
fically as they bent over him, ready to
strike his deathblow; yet in De Willen
berg's countenance, now animated with
the heroic bravery and resolution that
nerved his whole frame, there was some
thing
*
234 DE willENBERG.
thing that seemed to awe them from their
sanguinary purpose.
“Strike, villains, strike!” roared a tall
figure, wrapped in a long black cloak, that
covered him from head to foot, and his
features concealed by a mask; “instantly
do your duty, and plunge your daggers
to the very hilts in his deepest blood.
Strike, or, by Heaven, ye die yourselves!”
at the same time forcibly detaining Theo
dore, who had started from the bed to
wards an opposite door, that stood half
open, and which the glare of the torches
enabled him to distinguish.
“Murderous hell-hounds, avaunt" cried
the enraged DeWillenberg, bursting from
his grasp with a violence that would have
defied the strength of a Sampson. “Ad
vance but one step nearer, and this mo
ment is your last,” he continued, quickly
snatching the glittering instrument of
death from the hand of one of the ruffians.
“Give me a dagger" exclaimed the
One
DE WILLENBERG. 235
one who had held him, seeing them hesi-.
tate in alarm at his resolute attitude; “I
will do it myself. I fear no man.”
“Vile, abandoned miscreant, wilt thou
not fear the man who can this instant
send thee into thy Maker's awful presence,
amidst all thy foul and damning enormi
ties?” said Theodore, turning upon him at
the moment, and seizing him with strength
almost superhuman, while he raised the
dagger towards his breast—“ Monster!
wilt thou not tremble at the deed I could
now do—at the fate to which I could now
hurl thee? Oh, to what a depth of ever
lasting torture could this steel sink thy
recreant soul!”
“Then may we sink together " vocife
rated the other, making a thrust at his bo
som, which fortunately Theodore was
sufficiently on his guard to foil. The mask
his antagonist wore at the same time drop
ped off, and discovered count Ferdinand,
the chief of this lawless clan of assassins.
“Wretch! I thought as much,” said
- De
236 DE WILLENBERG.
De Willenberg, contemptuously tramp
ling the mask beneath his feet. “You
need not have put on this disguise, for a
villain can be recognized under any mask.”
“Hell and furies' is this language for
me to hear?” cried the ferocious bandit.
“Be the words your last in this world!”
Outrageous at the failure of his first
blow, he lost all command of himself, and
foaming with fury, he made a second aim
unsuccessfully, when Theodore, aware that
self-preservation is one of nature's most
imperative laws, acting on the defensive,
felled him, with a deadly blow, to the
earth. Ferdinand once more sprang on
his feet, and renewed the attack; desperate
nearly to madness with pain, his random
blows were aimed in every direction; at
length burying his dagger in the heart of
one of the others who had ventured to his
assistance, with a hideous groan he drop
ped lifeless on the ground, and on his
bleeding corpse fell that of his associate.
Enraged
IDE WILLENBERG. 237
Enraged at the death of their chief, the
three remaining banditti rushed forward,
and closed upon De Willenberg, who still
fought with the same undaunted vigour,
and for a while effectually parried off their
blows. One in particular, more determin
ed on vengeance than the others, snatch
ing up a sabre, aimed it at his heart, but
missed; and Theodore, with all his force,
dashed him several paces from him.
Deadly pale, and trembling with fury,
the ruffian again rushed towards him, di
recting at the same time a stroke that
threatened certain destruction; another
moment would have been his last, and the
murderer's steel plunged in his side, had
not a miracle interposed to save him. Just
at that critical instant, a loud cry was heard
outside of “Fire! fire the castle is in
flames " and almost breathless with con
sternation, the masked stranger rushed in,
and threw himself between De Willen
berg and his furious assailants.
The
238 DE WILLENBERG.
The present was not a time for inquiry,
on the part of Theodore, as to the quick re
covery of this extraordinary man—“Fly!”
exclaimed the latter, waving off the com
batants—“fly hence, while to save your
lives is still in your power! a minute's de
lay, and ye are lost for ever ! A flash of
lightning struck one of the turrets, the
blazes reach the sky, and in less than the
space of half-an-hour, the entire building
will be inevitably consumed !”
“The devil take the one who brings
such news " roared they, hastily flinging
down their daggers, and rushing impetu
ously towards the door, to effect their es
cape, regardless now of their dead com
mander, or the flight of him who had slain
him, when their own precious lives were
in such imminent peril.
De Willenberg was nearly exhausted by
his exertions, and he leaned against the
wall to recover breath, directing an elo
quent look of gratitude to his preserver,
who
DE WILLENBERG. 239
who conjured him, if he valued his life, to
quit immediately the fatal spot.—“You
too will fly with me, my friend. Yet ere
we go, tell me, I pray you, to whom I am
indebted for my life. You surely are not
leagued with these atrocious and unnatu
ral savages?” -
“I have never yet shed human blood,
signor, nor ever will, but in my own de
fence. Rest assured that I am your friend;
but at present seek to know no more of
me. I have saved your life, and all I ask
of you in return is this—let none know
that I have done so. When you have got
in safety beyond the confines of this terri
ble place, be your destination where it
may, betray not that any one here has
dared to be your friend, or your liberator;
if you do, my life will be the forfeit.”
“Betray you, my noble, generous pro
tector! never! sooner would I 92
“Nay, signor, the moments are precious,
and we are in the midst of danger; let us
instantly hence; I will conduct you be
yond
240 DE WILLENBERG.
yond these walls—there, a few words more,
and we part, perhaps for ever. Now fol
low me.” -
In silence he pursued the steps of his
guide through several long and intricate
passages, whose naturally-unwholesome
atmosphere, and an infectious moisture
that trickled down the walls, were render
ed still more intolerable by a cloud of
smoke that was rapidly spreading itself
through the whole interior of the building,
and announcing the quick approach of the
flames in that direction. Ascending an
other staircase, they discovered, by the aid
of a torch, a concealed door, which open
ing by touching a spring, admitted them
into the hall by which they had first en
tered the castle. It was now completely
illuminated, by the immensity of the clear
blaze without shining through the case
ments. Almost the whole of an adjoining
suite of rooms were enveloped in flames,
which spread with unconquerable vio
lence
DE WILLENBERG. 24.1
lence and rapidity. The total destruction
by fire of this extensive and formerly-mag
nificent pile was a truly-awful sight; yet
there was such a sublimity and grandeur
in the picture, that horror, admiration, and
awe, were mingled in the mind of the
spectator. -
“Good God " exclaimed De Willen
berg, shuddering at the thought, “should
any of these unhappy wretches not have
been alarmed, they must inevitably perish!
Shall we not warn them from a fate so
shocking?” Saying this, he was rushing
up the staircase that would have led him
into the body of the fire.
“Holy father! whither are you going,
senor?” cried the mask, running after
him, and forcibly pulling him back. “Do
not you see that our own safety entirely
depends upon instant flight? Come, come
away; trust me they will look to them
selves, and not one of them will for an in
stant think about you.”
vol. II. M Had
242 DE WILLENBERG.
Had it not been for the interference of
this man, De Willenberg's humanity would
have led him to his own destruction. He
had hardly got clear of the last step, when
a side-door flew back, and the devouring
element swept in a moment through almost
the whole extent of the hall, as if eager to
annihilate them for having dared its power
so long. Their lives hung upon the mo
ment, and they had merely time to retreat
into the long passage communicating with
the forest, whither they were followed by
Jacintha, who had, in a moment of des
peration, darted across from an opposite
apartment, as the only way of preserving
herself, and in doing so had been severely
scorched.
An exclamation of mutual joy at each
other's safety burst from the mask and Ja
cintha. They had moved but a few paces
onwards, when, with a tremendous crash,
that was loudly reverberated through the
air, part of the roof fell in, and buried be
- neath
DE WILLENBERG. 243
neath it all the faded grandeur of this
stately edifice. - a -
The shock had so overpowered, and the
smoke and heat so nearly suffocated them,
that they were directly unable to speak,
until they found themselves once more in
the open air; and then, by way of com
pensating herself, Jacintha's tongue began,
with its accustomed volubility, to reite
rate, and wherever she could, to magnify, ,
the dangers they had escaped.—“Lord-a
mercy!" cried she, devoutly making the
sign of the cross between her prominent
forehead and chin, “I never got such a
fright in all my born days, that I am sure
and certain I did not—at least since the
night old Hiego, my second husband, died.
God rest his soul! he was an honest, hard
working man, and a comely one too, as a
body may say, when l married him. Jesu !
what a fire It is a judgment upon the
whole vile set of them for their terrible
crimes, that is certain. See how it rages!"
M 2 “And
244 DE WILLENBERG,
“And it is equally certain,” said the
mask, “that if we stay here much longer,
some judgment will fall upon us.”
They had been all this time waiting the
slow return of the little boat, which had
been rowed to the opposite bank by some
of the banditti in their escape, who having
omitted to fastem it there, the current was
gradually bearing it back, and it was now
within reach.
“Come, signor,” said his conductor,
hauling it over, “let the three of us get
in, and we will steer ourselves to the other
side, and then, with your permission, I
will bring you safely through the forest.”
... “Ay, safely out of this den of villainy,”
added. Jacintha, who was stepping first
into the boat, and drawing back one foot,
in order to stop a while to vent the exe
crations with which her heart was full.—
“Oh the wretches they will all be in a
larger fire than this yet.”
- But
IDE WILLENBERG. 245
But her masked friend very prudently,
and sans cérémonie, urged her gently on
wards, to her no little discomfiture at that
moment; and De Willenbergentering the
vessel after them, they were quickly waft
ed across the stream.
The obstacles that had retarded their in
gress were now far less numerous. The
banditti, in their hasty flight, had forgotten
to replace either bars, bolts, or chains, so
that though the mask was evidently not
wellacquaintedwith the intricaciesthrough
which they had to pass, he was enabled, by
dint of perseverance, to fulfil his promise
of guiding them safely out of the forest.
—Having got beyond the borders of it,
he stopped.—" Here, signor,” said he,
turning to De Willenberg—“here we
must separate. That is your road,” point
- ingout the direction of his mother's house;
“this, to the left, is ours, for Jacintha and
I go together—our destination is the same.
At present you behold me enveloped in
- - - - - M 3 mystery,
246 DE WILLENBERG.. "
mystery, which I dare not lay open to
you. My voice you know not, and it is
well, for I must not be recognized. This
must account for my concealing my fea
tures beneath a mask, which, if removed,
you would know those features instantly.
On strict secrecy now my very existence
depends; therefore be you silent as the
grave, as to the means by which you were
saved from intended death, and the man
who ventured to promote your escape. Be
guarded, and watchful of yourself, that you
betray me not to any body—to the officers
of your regiment most particularly.”
“Can it be possible that you are—”
“Nay, signor, start not, nor thus inter
rupt me; I am not whom you take me
for. When you rejoin your regiment (for
well, you perceive, I know you), it will be
necessary to relate some of the transactions
of this night. Tell them of your ventur
ing into the forest—your meeting and be.
ing led by the banditti to their secret
abode—your rencontre with them in the
vault
DE WILLENBERG, 247
vault—the final triumph of your bravery
—of the conflagration that has happened
—that you seized the moment of general
confusion and dismay for your escape; and
lastly, that you believe every other indi
vidual to have perished in the flames.
Now, signor, farewell ! Yet one more
- charge, and I have done. You would fain
know who is your enemy, and who the one
that preserved you from his foul machina
tions. This is not now necessary, and it is
a knowledge I should wish you never to
possess; yetlest circumstances should ever
render it essential to your safety, or lest
your life should ever be again assailed, take
this packet,” drawing one from his bosom
as he spoke; “preserve it carefully from
every mortal eye—its contents even from
Ayour own for ever, should nought of what
I have suggested occur; let no idle or
common curiosity ever tempt you to open
it. But if at any time you are unfortu
mately obliged to do so, then will every
mystery that now hangs over it and me
- - M 4 be
248 DE WILLENBERG. -
be revealed, and your treacherous, perhaps
unsuspected enemy, stand exposed to pub
lic view and public infamy. Now then,
signor, a last farewell.” He attempted to go.
“By Heaven we must not part so "
said Theodore, detaining him. “My kind,
disinterested, generous deliverer, at least
accept this (drawing forth his purse), as a
trifling proof of my gratitude, or rather of
the gratitude I fain would evince, but
cannot; but the time yet may come when
I can prove it; tell me then, I entreat,
whither go ye?”
“No, senor, I cannot—will not receive
it,” said the other, resolutely but respect
fully pushing it from him; “for the little
service I have performed, your thanks
prove your gratitude, and my reward.
You term that service disinterested;
would it be such, were I to accept remune
ration? Certainly not; therefore put it
up, and be assured I thank you just as
much as if I took it.” -
“May I then not know your destina
tion?
DE will ENBERG. 249
tion? may I not hope to see you again,
and unmasked 2* -
“Where I go, senor, is far, far distant,
and pardon me if I decline informing you;
but of this rest satisfied—if at any future
time it shall be necessary to recur to this
dreadful night, and my evidence be re
quired, I shall hear of it, and coming face
to face, will proclaim aloud the guilty,”
“I will not urge you farther,” said De
Willenberg, with an affectionate pressure
of the hand. “May we meet again under
happier circumstances: farewell! farewell!”
“Adieu, senor!” replied the other, re
turning the pressure; “ would that it
were not necessary for us to part here, or
that we could depart more comfortably
But see—the moon itself grows clearer, as
if to light you towards your home, and us
upon our wearisome journey; once more
farewell ?” - - -
“ Farewell, senor,” added Jacintha,
dropping a profound curtsey; “the mo
ther St. Agnes, and all the saints in the
M 5. calendar,
250 DE WILLENBERG,
calendar, keep you from ever entering this
vile forest again "
Almost in the next instant they were
gone, and De Willenberg stood for some
time leaning against a tree, bewildered
with the confusion of his ideas. The
events of the night seemed as a frightful
dream; the impression they left on his
senses was a sort of stupifying horror;
and as if but half awake, he doubted for
a while whether such things had really
been. On coming to himself, however,
he could doubt no lenger, for he held in
his hand one of the evidences of it—the
packet, which he would have given worlds
to be permitted to open; but recollecting
the strict injunction he had received with
it, the promise he had pledged, and how
dishonourable, how culpable, and perhaps
dangerous, it would be to violate that pro
mise, he resisted the temptation, and
placed it securely in the bosom of his vest,
and then slowly bent his steps homewards,
intending
DE WILLENBERG. 251
intending to return to Zersk at the expi
ration of three days, to see what would be
the issue of the anonymous letter he had
received on the foregoing evening. He
deemed it prudent not to mention to his
mother any part of what had occurred to
him at the bandit's castle, lest its alarming
her with the idea of treachery being on
foot against him, she should strenuously
oppose his going back, or in any way in
vestigating the matter farther.
A few scattered stars that had glim
mered in the horizon were now gradually
disappearing, and another morning ofanx
iety and suspense tediously dawning upon
him. The time crept slowly and heavily
on—ilis impatience made every succeeding
moment appear more tardy in its course,
for he wished not to arrive at home at an
unseasonable hour, lest his mother's inter
rogatories should lead him to betray un
guardedly the horrors and perils he had
been exposed to; he therefore the less re
M 6 - gretted
952 DE WILLENBERG.
gretted the loss of his horse, as he could
now pursue his way more leisurely, and
he could also easily account for his return
ing without it by saying, what would be
literally true, that he having taken shelter
from the storm, the animal had become
suddenly terrified and unmanageable, and
had eventually broken away from him.
A smart breeze now swept round him,
and as he advanced, the murmuring of a
distant waterfall broke slowly on the still
ness of the morning, growing louder and
louder as each step brought him nearer to
it. His limbs yet ached severely after his
fall, but he proceeded on with a firm and
unrelaxed step, and wishing to prolong
his walk, so as to retard his arrival at home,
he turned on a path that wound up the
side of an immense chain of towering and .
gigantic rocks, the highest of which over
topped the tallest trees, and commanded a
far-distant view of the Baltic and its mag
nificent shores.
The
I}E WILLENBERG, 253
The scene immediately surrounding
him was awfully grand and picturesque.
On one side was heard the cascade's thun
dering din; the alternately black and
foaming element was now lost in the im
mense obscurity through which it flowed,
and again reappeared in all its native ter.
rors; on another hung tremendous cliffs,
which almost seemed to threaten instant
destruction to the extensive woods that
reared their dark heads beneath them.
Loudly-roaring volumes of water dashed
awfully, with resistless force, through the
frightful chasms below, and broke on the
astonished senses, according to the ascent
or descent that its hearer made. Here
and there, between the rocks, a few groups
of trees in full verdure relieved the wan
dering eye; then descending a gentle de
clivity, a more congenial prospect present
ed itself.
The whole vegetable world seemed re
vivified by the late rain, and the glorious
- luminary
254 DE WILLENIBERG,
luminary of day at length reappearing in,
the yellow-streaked eastern hemisphere,
threw its gladdening radiance over the
beautiful landscape; the sky was perfectly
serene, and the lower air was filled with
the delicious perfume of the most odorife
rous plants, which flourished there spon
taneously; the sweet-scented clematis, the
oleander, and the agnus castus, in full
bearing, threw their fragrance around, and
their beautifully-varied colours feasted the
eye; the richest treasures of Nature there
flowed forth luxuriantly; the trees in
splendid array ofglittering green and gold;
the silvery course of the waterfall, glid
ing in majesty sublime from the mountain
ous precipices through the fertile glens—
all contributed to animate De Willenberg
with a full sense of the wisdom, the pre
science, and the glory of the Omnipotent
Being who was the author of those noble
and wonderful works.
All his thoughts ascended in pious fer
- VOur
IDE WILLENBERG. 255
vour and gratitude to Heaven for its
watchful care and protection of him
through the perils of the preceding night,
and sinking upon his knees on the verdant
spot, he poured forth his usual morning
thanksgiving to the Deity, with all the
sincerity of a heart that really felt and ac
knowledged the magnitude of the divine
favour.
He remembered, too, with the gratitude
they deserved, the services of his myste
rious deliverer; the more he thought of
him, the more his desire to penetrate the
secrecy in which he had wrapt himself in
creased. He was evidently some person
perfectly acquainted with him, and it
could not have been chance alone that had
thrown him in his way at such a time,
though it was equally evident that either
he had never been one of the banditti, or
was one contrary to the intentions of Na
ture and his own inclinations. He was
confident that he had never before seen
Jacintha,
256 DE WILLENBERG.
Jacintha, and her being the friend or rela
tive of this stranger surprised and perplex
ed him still more. At one moment he
censured himself for not employing even
stratagem to discover whither he was
going; but then again there appeared in
doing so something so ignoble—so unwor
thy and degrading, that he very soon be
came contented to remain in ignorance of
him, until some event (which certainly
was not to be wished for) might take place
to render his presence necessary, and in
such case he had solemnly promised to
come forward and declare himself.
His reflections gradually became of a
more melancholy cast, for they turned
upon the death of his father, and that fa
ther's dying malediction. His very soul
sickened within him at the horrid idea of
his having impiously denounced a curse
upon him, even at the solemn moment in
which he was about to enter the awful
presence of his Creator—“Oh, God! oh!
good
DE willENBERG. 257
good and gracious God, forgive him!” he
ejaculated, clasping his hands together, in
agony so acute that he had nearly fallen to
the earth, “forgive him! and wash away
too my offences, for I have erred towards
him; yet surely—surely I deserved not
so unnatural a bequest.”
It was indeed unnatural, and equally
so, that Theodore should have longer se
riously lamented the loss of one whose
injustice, illiberality, and unkindness, ren
dered him so unworthy of the affection
that an amiable and dutiful son should
ever feel for a tender and exemplary pa
rent. He experienced the same emotions.
that we all feel on hearing of the death of
a fellow-creature, but scarcely more.
Thus meditating, he had travelled seve
ral miles ere he was aware that his walk
was nearly terminated; and he almost re
gretted when, descending into the little
plantation that shaded his mother's house,
- - - he
||
258 DE WILLENBERG.
he entirely lost sight of the vast and stu
pendous objects that had for a while kept
painful remembrances from his mind.
Madame de Willenberg had sat down
to her early and wholesome repast of
cakes, jelly, and milk, when he entered.
Joy at seeing his mother, whom but a few
hours before he had despaired of ever
again beholding, gave to his cheeks a fine
flush, that looked like the roseate glow of
health, animating his handsome and man
ly countenance with a thousand fresh
beauties.—“Thanks to the Virgin you
are returned in safety, my sweet boy!”
exclaimed she, eagerly starting from her
seat to embrace him. “ Theodore, my
love, how have you arranged the business
on which you went? I trust it is all hap
pily at an end?”
He was incapable of uttering a direct
untruth, and therefore, without prevari
cating, he replied—“I have commenced
'the investigation which such an affair re
quires,
DE WILLENBERG. 259
quires, and which cannot, of course, be
accomplished without delay; in three
days more it will be decided.”
Wishing to avoid further interrogation
on the subject, he retired to his own room
immediately after breakfast, and threw
himself on the bed. He was really in
need of rest, from the dreadful bodily and
mental sufferings he had so lately under
gone. His fall was productive of severe
pain, but he felt that he could hardly be
sufficiently thankful to Providence, that
its consequences were not more serious.
He had not long lain down when a pro
found and refreshing sleep came on, which
lasted several hours, and the salutary ef.
fects of which were visible when he arose.
He was surprised to find that it was so
late; and though the usual hour for din
ner was long past, his mother was still
waiting for him. She had a multiplicity
of questions to ask, and alarm was visible
in her words and on her features, for she
had
260 IDE WILLENBERG.
had only a little before been informed of
his having returned from Zersk without
his horse. This circumstance, together
with his unexpectedly-quick return, made
her fancy a thousand absurdities, which, to
her fears, appeared quite probable, and,
amongst the rest, that he had actually de
tected the author of the letter, engaged
him in single combat, with all a young
and proud-spirited hero's impetuosity, and
in the contest had had his horse slain under
him.
On this point she had, however, happily
deceived herself; yet even when assured
that she had, her mind was still far from
being setat rest, and she continued to inter
rogate him as to all that he had said, and
all he had discovered relative to the letter.
It was his intention to proceed on the
ensuing day to Herman Castle, and he
wished to persuade himself that it was al
most solely with the view of being re
moved
DE WILLENBERG. 261
moved from these distressing inquiries;
but Love softly whispered to him, that to
be a single hour absent from the society of
Victoria, was infinitely more distressing
than would have been such interrogatories,
had she continued them for a month.
Away from her, he found that tranquillity
or happiness was not to be experienced,
and to his happiness her presence was
essential—“Yet what is it I would do?”
he asked himself; “surely to indulge
longer in her fascinating society is now
forbidden me, and would be destructive
to my future peace, if such I can ever
know in this world again without her.
Their arms are open to me, it is true; and
even poor and portionless as I now am,
still am I welcome as ever to them—still
would they exalt me to the blissful station
they proposed—still would the count make
me his son—Victoria her husband. Oh!
felicity on earth unparalleled ! But no,
no; it must not be; honour on my part
interdicts it. I will go back to the castle,
but
262 DE WILLENBERG.
but for no selfish gratification—I will state
all that has occurred, shew myself in all
my confirmed poverty—release the count
from every promise, and, with fortitude
and philosophy, I will tell Victoria that we
can never be united.”
His heart was almost bursting with an
guish as he formed this resolution, and tears
nearly forced themselves from his eyes;
but there was something delightful in the
idea ofeven seeing her again, and cheered
by it, there was nothing particular in his
manner, when he told his mother that he
was about to revisit the castle; he had
not mentioned to her the clandestine man
ner in which he left it, nor his letter to the
count; and, in truth, he felt no little em
barrassment in thus constraining himself
to encounter all the inquiries, and quell
all the apprehensions such a letter would
have excited, and he now regretted his hav
ing written it.
Early
DE WILLENBERG. 263
Early next day he took leave of his mo
ther, and was soon again on the road to
the castle. It was a road which he had
always travelled with feelings of pleasure,
from its rich and romantic beauties; but
it appeared now to his eyes vastly more
beautiful than ever, for it was leading him
from misery to happiness—to the society
of the woman he loved.
Riding along, at a smart gallop, he had
got about half-way, when he heard indis
tinctly several voices at a distance, and the
trampling of horses, evidently advancing
towards him. Turning an angle, formed
by a thick wood that skirted the road, he
met one of the horsemen, who had consi
derably distanced the rest, and who was
riding pensively along, his head bent upon
his bosom. The man suddenly looked up
through tears that were glistening in his
eyes, and Theodore beheld, not a stranger,
as he had expected, but his own servant
Conrad.
If
264 DE WILLENBERG.
If De Willenberg was surprised at
meeting him thus, what shall we say of
Conrad at the moment he recognized his
master, alive and standing before him
His lips—his tongue—his eyes—every
feature of his distorted face, spoke asto
nishment and incredulity; and obeying
the impulse of its terrified rider, the ani
mal, at a sudden check of the reins, reared
on its hinder legs, and retreated backwards
several paces.
“Conrad, do you not know me, or
whom do you take me for 2" asked De
Willenberg, smiling at the extraordinary
expression of his countenance, and won
dering what all this was owing to—“Do
you not know me?” he repeated.
“Y—yes,” stammered Conrad, at last
making the sign of the cross, and then
wiping his eyes, as if to see more clearly,
“my master!” he exclaimed—“my dear
master! Blessed Virgin' you are not
killed then—nobody murdered you!”
- 66 No,
IDE WILLENBERG. 265
“No, indeed, Conrad,” replied De Wil
lenberg, smiling again at his honest sim
plicity, and still more surprised at his
having gained information of the perils he
had escaped. “But wherefore do you ask
the question? How did you hear of my
danger?”
Conrad was now thoroughly convinced
that he spoke to an inhabitant of this
world, and he no longer feared to approach
him. He would instantly have alighted
and thrown himself at his beloved master's
feet, but the latter prevented him, bidding
him explain the cause of his interrogatory.
—“I will, senor; but not for worlds would
I that we should be overheard by another;
so if you will just come a little way into
the wood here with me, I will tell you the
whole story, and plenty I have to tell you
too, I warrant.”
“No bad or unwelcome tidings, I
trust?” asked Theodore, half alarmed at
his ambiguous manner, and riding with
him into one of the recesses of the wood.
VOL. II. N Surprise
266 DE WILLENBERG.
Surprise and joy at thus unexpectedly
and suddenly finding his master alive, had,
for a while, driven every other object out
of his head; and amongst the rest, he had
totally forgotten the whole train of vassals
that were accompanying him to the forest:
leaving them now to pursue their journey
thither, without any assistance or advice
from him, he related to the astonished
De Willenberg the current report of his
having been assassinated in the forest, the
inconsolable grief of Victoria on hearing
it, and her subsequent flight from the cas
tie in consequence of it.
When he spoke of her having fled, De
Willenberg had nearly fallen from his
horse, which would have happened, had
not Conrad instantly assured him that he
knew where she was, and promised to con.
duct him to the very door of her retreat.
—“Where is she?” he impatiently de
manded—“Where is my Victoria?–Tell
me, that on Love's swiftest pinions I may
fly
DE willENBERG. 267
fly to assure her that never, never was she
so ardently beloved by me as she now is.
—Let us begone—lead on without delay!”
“Nay, my honoured master, such im
petuosity would mar your wishes. Hear
me a moment further. We must act with
prudence. None now in the castle, except
her maid Barbara, know whither she is
gone, and she only under a strict injunction
to secrecy; but determined to obtain the
secret, I wheedled her a while, and, wo
man-like, she told it.”
“I beseech you, Conrad, keep me not
longer in suspense—tell me at once where
she is?”
“In the convent of St. Agnes, senor”,
“Merciful Heaven the convent of St.
Agnes' And has the meek, the gentle,
the lovely Victoria, enclosed herselfin such
a den of horrors as that convent is?–Has
she, in the wildness of her grief, sought a
sanctuary beneath the same roof with the
wicked, unfeeling abbess Stephania, whose
N 2 character
268 DE WILLENBERG.
character the whole country is acquainted
with ?—Did she, young, beautiful, rich,
and accomplished, fly the world and all its
allurements, to spend her days in such a
place, under tyranny, cruelty, and oppres
sion ?—All this did she do for me. Talk
not to me now of impetuosity or rashness.
Let me hasten to her, I repeat—pour out
my gratitude at her feet, and prove myself
worthy of her by releasing her—ay, from
all the vows that ever bound deluded nuns
to Heaven, I will release her P’s
“You forget, senor, that she cannot yet
have pledged any serious vow; she has
scarcely yet entered the twelfth hour of
her noviciate, so that you cannot have so
much difficulty as you suppose in libe
rating her, unless indeed the lady abbess
should absolutely refuse to give her up.”
“Refuse !” echoed De Willenberg, en
raged at his even imagining such a thing.
“Think you, sir, she dare refuse? By
all the powers above, if she did, she should
1In
IDE WILLENBERG. 269
in tears of blood repent itfor theremainder
of her miserable life!—Come, let us pro
ceed.” ; : . . . . - , , , ; ;
“Softly, senor; you have still more to
hear. Lady Victoria wished not to be
known at the convent; and to avoid it,
she gave her name there as donna Clara
de Manzilla. But I see I have offended
you, and therefore will not presume to
offer my opinion any more.” -
“Indeed, my faithful Conrad, you have
not offended me; and to prove that you
have not, I will be guided by your advice,
and act cautiously. “I see that to get her
away from the monastery, will require a
little dissimulation and stratagem, and
deep must surely, be the stratagem that
can deceive the wily, watchful, and suspi
cious abbess of St. Agnes. But hear how
I have planned. Not many days ago, I
sat for my portrait to one of the most
eminent artists in Warsaw, intending to,
present it, when finished, to lady Victoria.
That portrait I have now in my possession,
ºf it.” and
270 DE WILLENBERG.
and by means of it she shall know that I
am living. I would not hazard the sud
den intelligence, lest joy or surprise over
power her; but there is no alternative. She
has, you say, assumed another name; I
will do so too, and in the character of her
brother, don Guzman de Manzilla, send in
the miniature, and demand to see her.
What think you of my project?”
“That it will succeed,” replied the en
raptured Conrad. “Holy St. Peter I
thought until now that I had not my equal
in Poland for planning and manoeuvring;
but, Lord! I see I am a mere ninny in com
parison with you, senor; and as you have
settled so cleverly how you are to regain
her ladyship, if you please, we will lose
no more time, but set off at once.”
He had still hoped that his master
would confide to him the mysterious cause
of his sudden departure from Herman Cas
tle, but that hope was disappointed; and,
unwilling to touch upon a chord that
would
DE WILLENBERG. 271
would vibrate so painfully through De
Willenberg's bosom, especially in his pre
sent anticipations of happiness with Vic
toria, he did not venture the remotest in
quiry on the subject; but thoughtfully
checking his horse's pace, and riding at a
respectful distance after him, they took
the shortest road through the wood to the
convent of St. Agnes.
END OF VOL. II.
Printed by J. Darling, Leadenhall-Street, London.
---
-º-mºmºmºsºm-amma-mm
NEW PUBLICATIONS
-- * PRINTED Foſt • * * * > . . .
.A. K. WE ºn, A.W. & co.
AT THE
~/newa 2%,y
LEADENHALL-STREET, LONDON.
Matron of Erin, an Irish Tale, by Mrs. Kelly, 3 vols.
2d edition........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 16 6
The Fatalists, or Records of 1814 and 1815 by the
same Author, 5 vols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 7 6
Astonishment | 1 or a Romance of a Century ago, by -
Francis Lathom, 2d edition, 3 vols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 15 0
Arthur Mervyn, by C. B. Brown, 3 vols........ . . . . . 0 16 6
Tales of Ton, (f1 Rst series), containing Fashionable
Characters, by Miss M*Leod, 4 vols............... 1 4 0
(second series), containing the Miser's
Daughter, Beautiful Countess, a Cure for a Broken
Heart, Fiorabelle, Determination, Rosamond, and a
Tale from Common Life, 4 vols. ................ 1 4 0
Rolando, a Romance, by Alexander Henry, Esq. 2 vols o 10 0
Society and Solitude, a Novel, by Innes Hoole, Esq.
3 vols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 15 0
St. Patrick, a National Tale, 3 vols. ................ 1 1 0
Coquetry, a Tale, 3 vols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 0
The Midnight Wanderer, or a Legend of the Houses o
Altenberg and Lindendorf, by Margaret Campbell,
4 vols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 1 2 0
Parish Priest in Ireland, 2 vols..................... 0 10 0
The Feuds of Luna and Perollo, a Romantic Tale of
* the Sixteenth Century, 4 vols. .................. 1-2 0
Romance of the Forest, new edit. 3 vols... . . . . . . . . . . . 0 16
--- --~~~~
" ſº
Rº'iAl
6
DE WILLENBERG ;
oR,
THE TALISMAN.
A TALE OF MYSTER Y.
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
-
BY I. M. H. HALES, ESQ.
AUTHOR OF THE ASTROLOGER.
Such is the weakness of all mortal hope,
So fickle is the state of earthly things,
Thatere they come into their aimed scope,
They fall so short of our frail reckonings,
And bring us bale and bitter sorrowings,
Instead of comfort, which we should embrace
This is the state of Caesars and of Kings.
Let none, therefore, that is in meanerplace,
Too greatly grieve at any his unlucky case. SPENSER.
WOL. III.
->>e-º-º
LONDON :
- PRINTED roR
A. K. NEWMAN AND CO. LEADEN HALL-STREET.
1821.
---
-
---------------
.********º-º-º-º:
º
º *…
ſºvº
º sº.
ºf º-º IT A ºr
º, Bº * * * * *
-
* , tº
'JNº.
tº-º-º-º:
s* -
DE WILLENBERG.
- CHAPTER I.
-------------
——— There
Pale Superstition feels th’incessant throb
Ofghastly panic, in whose startl'd ear
The knell still deepens, and the raven croaks.
SMolle tr.
THE reader is, by this time, no doubt,
anxious to visit our heroine in her monas
tic seclusion, for which purpose we shall
set out with her from the rustic cottage
of honest Jerome, her guide and protector.
Had the grief and poignant anguish of
mind she laboured under allowed of any
augmentation, it would have been from
WOL. III. B the
2 DE WILLENBERG.
the novelty of her situation—a fugitive
from her home and friends, that home,
those friends, it seemed likely she should
behold no more. f
At that early and unseasonable hour,
travelling along a lonely and unfrequent
ed road, with such a companion; and,
worst of all, about to bury herself in a
monastery, the Monastery of St. Agnes
too, the gloomiest, and most rigorous in
its laws, and its enforcement of them, in
the whole kingdom the prospect was
truly an appalling one; but had it even
been much more so, she would now have
gone on.
All along from the cottage was a con
tinued scene of luxuriant beauty; rich
landscapes, alternately hill and dale, wood
and water, met the eye all around; yet
her eye saw them not, for her thoughts
were far from them—they were with De
Willenberg. -
After
DE WILLENBERG. 3
After several ludicrous hems and gri
maces, by way of preamble, Jerome ven
tured to observe, that “such an honour
was not conferred upon him every day,
as a beautiful young lady, of such great
rank, condescending to take a journey
along with a poor man like him, and on
one of his mules too; and for certain it
must be something wondrous and impor
tant that made her do so.”
Victoria saw that curiosity was getting
the better of his hitherto-respectful silence,
and she was on her guard against saying
too much; but as he was to be her con
voy to the monastery, she knew that
she must necessarily confide the affair in
part to him.—“Now hear me, my friend,”
said she, presenting her purse to him;
“once more I enjoin you to secrecy—let
this ensure it. Domestic causes, which
may not be told to a stranger's ear, force
me to leave, for a while, my home, and
seek an asylum in the convent to which
we are going. None but Barbara and
B 2 yourself
4. - IDF WILLENBERG.
yourself know my retreat, and none must
seek me there. Promise me, therefore,
that nothing shall ever tempt you to
betray me.”
Jerome's countenance was a true pic
ture of honesty and integrity, and a pro
mise once uttered by him was inviolable.
—“No, my sweet young lady,” he replied,
“I would not be the wretch to betray
you, were the crown of Poland to be my
reward. How then do you think I would
have the conscience to take your purse
from you? Nay, my lady, don't mistake
a poor man's meaning; I cannot take it—
indeed I cannot; and sooner than my
tongue should betray the confidence of a
woman, the one who would make me
such a traitor shall pluck it from the
root.”
These were sentiments that would have
done honour to the highest station. Vic
toria's confidence in him was firm, and
she insisted, with a look in which he saw
DE WILLENBERG. 5
that another refusal would offend her,
that he would accept the purse as a re
ward, at least for his trouble, if not for his
fidelity; and with a reluctant hand he
took it.
A close avenue of oak and larch trees
at length brought them to the gates of
the convent, immediately within which a
large ancient clock was striking six, and
the instant it ceased, the dismal peal of
the matin-bell succeeded it.
The sombre and uninviting appearance
of the whole exterior exactly answered
the picture Victoria's fancy had drawn
of it. It was enclosed by a square wall,
of immense height and thickness, three
sides of which were closely shaded and
overhung by double rows of beech and
larch trees, which almost completely dark
ened the principal entrance; and the
fourth, which extended to the corner of ,
a small village, and which was consider
B 3 ably
6 IDE WILLENEERG.
ably lower than the others, was, at the
wish of the lady abbess, and father Hugo,
the confessor, guarded by a sentinel, to
prevent the encroach of any impious in
truder (for it was said that the wall was
quite low enough to be easily scaled), who
might possibly be so daring as to venture
beyond the hallowed barrier, for the dia
bolical and unpardonable purpose of see
ing a pretty young nun, and also to con
vince any of the holy sisterhood, whose
bosoms might, even in the midst of prayer .
and fasting, still harbour any of the sin
ful lusts of the flesh, that at least, if their
hearts had not renounced the dear ima
ges of men, the men must, of necessity,
renounce them, and that every chance
of communication between them was cut
off.
The more effectually to wean those frail
daughters of Eve from the other sex, the
ones selected for the tantalizing office of
sentinel there were usually creatures who
only
DE willENBERG. 7
only required the loss of an eye each to
give them the appearance of Vulcan's
workmen—the Cyclopes, or, at all events, a
branch of that uncouth-featured family.
Their ages were as formidable to every
thing like love as their looks; and, in
short, the sagacity of the lady abbess in
suggesting the plan, was scarcely more
commendable than the fidelity and inge
nuity of the one who picked them out.
Close to the gate was the handle of the
bell, which Jerome having pulled, a short
hunch-backed creature presently made her
appearance, acting as portress, and stalk
ing out from an adjoining portal. Sharp
misery had indeed worn her to the bone;
her figure was almost a skeleton, and her
features were hideously squalid, meagre,
and discoloured. As she approached, cross
ing herself, and mumbling out her Ave
Marias, she raised one of her squinting
eyes towards the strangers, and demanded
their business. Coming a little nearer,
B 4 and
8 DE WILLENBERG.
and espying Jerome through the grating,
she uttered a frightful yell. — “ Christ
Jesu" cried she, “ a man so near me !
Oh, holy mother St. Agnes, let me not
behold him " and she drew a thick veil
over her face. -
“Mother St. Belzebub" exclaimed the
offended Jerome, “I wonder what a man
could have to say to you, you ugly, raw
boned, withered old witch! Ay, you
may well cover your ghostly-looking face
from the sight of man "
“Holy Virgin defend me!” ejaculated
Garcia. -
“Why then you can defend yourself,
old Jezebel !” continued Jerome, “ for
you are a virgin, as sure as ever an ape
was led by an old maid below. You will
have one yet in your dragon paws.”
“Out upon you!” roared the enraged
portress, hobbling faster towards him, and
raising her crutch, as if to strike him; but
Victoria, dreading the effects of such an
altercation, besought Jerome to depart,
InOW
DE WILLENBERG. 9
now that she had arrived at her destina
tion in safety.
Bowing with deference to her, after
giving her his blessing, and casting a look
of ineffable contempt at poor Garcia, he
pursued his way to market with his bas
kets.
“ Blessed are the meek-hearted and
they who suffer patiently" said she, when
he had got out of her reach, replacing the
crutch by her side, and slowly opening
the gate to admit Victoria. “Well,
daughter,” venturing to draw back her
veil, and eyeing her closely from head to
foot, “well, daughter, you are come, I
suppose, to make another happy member
of our holy community? Blessed be St.
Agnes!”
“Yes, mother, I am come to be a mem
ber of it,” sighed Victoria; “but, alas! far,
far from being a happy one,” thought
she—“ that I never can be.”
B. 5 “Ah,
10 - IDE WILLENBERG.
“Ah, lucky is it for you, child, that
you chose the convent of St. Agnes! Give
thanks to the Madonna, whose holy spirit
inspired you to come here. Your poor
soul is saved at once, and on the straight
road to heaven now, when it passes thro'
purgatory. God send us all safely through
it ! Yes, daughter, you are under the
same blessed roof with our sweet and
glorious lady abbess, Stephania; and if
ever there was a saint upon earth, I am
sure she is one. Heaven be her portion"
“Have the kindness to conduct me at
once to the superior,” said Victoria, dis
gusted with her hypocritical cant.
“You cannot see her yet then,” return
ed Garcia, sullenly, huffed at being inter
rupted; “she is just now going to matins,
and would not see you, nor your betters,
at such a time. So you must wait till
they are over.” -
“That I am content to do,” said our
heroine, with mild dignity, and a look
that silenced the insolent menial, who,
having
DE WILLENBERG. II
having shewn her into the abbess's sitting
room, instantly withdrew.
The matin service usually lasted about
half an hour, and Victoria employed the
interval she had to wait in surveying this
strangely-furnished apartment. The walls
were painted a dark leaden or stone colour,
corresponding with the gloomy grey gar
ments worn by the abbess and sisterhood;
every thing in it looked cold, wretched,
and cheerless, and completely emblematic
of monastic austerity and privation. At
one end stood an uncovered altar of black
marble,above which was hung a full-length
figure of the dying Saviour, in the very
colouring and expression of whose features
the bigotry of the artist was palpable, so
frightfully and unnaturally had he depict
ed his sufferings. -
Victoria was shocked at seeing two or
three instruments of self-castigation, and
a whip of knotted cords, suspended along
- B 6 the
19 DE will ENBERG.
N.
the walls.-‘Oh, superstition, hypocrisy
most abominable P’ exclaimed she. “Sure
ly, surely human beings, endued with
sense, reason, and the power of reflecting,
cannot, for an instant, believe that such
things are acceptable to the Deity. Can
fasting, penance in sackcloth and ashes,
scourging, or all their deceitful tears, wash
away one single crime, or its consequences,
from the conscience they dare to load with
it? Monstrous, unnatural supposition,
as if we could expiate on earth, in such a
way as this, our offences towards Heaven.
Yet, alas ! if these be their impious doc
trines here, and that they are, every thing
too plainly tells, what scenes of horror
and bigotry must I be a witness to"
While thus soliloquizing on their follies
and their hypocrisy, the door was slowly
thrown open, and, with a measured and
majestic step, a tall dignified-looking wo
man, apparently near fifty, advanced to
our heroine, to whom she announced her
- self
DE WILLENBERG. 13
self as the abbess.—“I am,” said she, “the
lady Stephania, the respected superior of
this holy monastery; and, if I am rightly
informed by our aged portress, you, daugh
ter, hearing of the sweet serenity, concord,
and piety, in which we dwell, in this our
beautiful retirement, have turned from
the unrighteous paths of the great world,
and are come to be a participator in our
hallowed joys, and tread with us the
shortest road to heaven?”
This was a sort of jargon by no means
calculated to make a favourable impres.
sion of her on Victoria, who almost turned
away from her in disgust; but recollect
ing how impolitic it would be to do so,
she constrained herself to answer; yet, a
stranger to dissimulation, she paused
a while ere she did answer, for it was ne
cessary now to her security to assume the
feigned name, and, should she be interro
gated, relate the feigned story she had de
cided on.—“Yes, madam,” said she, “do
mestic circumstances have driven me from
my
14 IDF WILLENBERG. "
my home, and compelled me to seek your
protection. You are rightly informed—
it is my desire to become an inmate of
your sacred abode, where, I trust, the
serenity and concord you speak of will,
in time, restore my mind to its wonted
tranquillity.”
“Your sorrows alone, daughter, demand
my protection for you; they are, no doubt,
the consequences of your intercourse with
a wicked and ungodly world; and as such,
my holy profession binds me to receiveyou,
to preserve you in future from their evil
ways, and shelter in my bosom a penitent
sinner; besides, you will, of course, soon
entitle yourself to that protection by an
other claim—you will enter the happy state
of the noviciate, and finally take the veil.”
Here she paused, rather fearfully, as if
she had expressed an unreasonable wish,
and was waiting to abide by the reply.
Fortunately for her hopes, this was ex
actly
DE WILLENBERG. 15
actly what our self-exiled heroine had
previously resolved on.—“Alas, madam "
she mournfully replied, “such is the deter
mination I have been compelled to, by
injustice and tyranny, both of which, I
trust, I shall be safe from here.” -
“Doubt it not, my child. You have,
directed by the Virgin, chosen a sanctuary,
where peace, meekness, and religion, dwell
in their divinest forms. We are all here
the chosen of Heaven, to instruct and re
form our erring species.”
Victoria cast a look of strong contempt
on her, totally unable to disguise it.
Stephania, evidently disconcerted by it,
bit her lip, as turning round she observed
—“I confess, daughter, to one accustomed
to luxurious pleasures and joys, as possi
bly you may have been, the sombre as
pect of our tranquil seclusion holds out no
gilded baits. We entrap not the young
and unwary into guile; we indulge not
1It
16 IDE WILLENBERG.
in selfish or sinful gratifications; we var.
nish not our words or actions to tempt
strangers to our society; but if voluntari
ly they come to us, we receive them with
open arms, actuated by the purest friend
ship; and if they prove worthy of being
loved, we do love them with truly ma
ternal and Christian affection.”
“I hope I shall be deemed deserving
of it, lady,” coldly replied Victoria, at the
same time unclasping a little bag of green
brocade, and drawing from it a purse,
whose golden contents glittered brightly
through the network, more transcendent
ly radiant and joy-inspiring in the ava
ricious eyes of Stephania, than the most
resplendent rays the eagle's eye had ever
beheld emanating from the sun. “ At
present, lady, accept this for my admis
sion. It is a mere trifle; but all your
further demands on me shall be amply
satisfied.”
The offer was almost incredible. The
purse
DE WILLENBERG. 17
purse was heavy with gold. If such was
what she termed “a mere trifle,” what
might not be expected from her liberality
hereafter 2 - -
Doubtful for a moment, the abbess hesi
tated; then, to convince herself that it
was no delusion, she extended her hand,
and clasped the solid prize.
The very touch communicated to her
whole frame a feeling so exquisite and
delightful, that all her features, which had
once been strikingly handsome and in
telligent, but were now pale and haggard,
seemed to sparkle with their former ani
mation; but it was the animated horrid
glare of avarice, and Victoria perfectly
understood it. — “ Oh, dearly-beloved
daughter,” said she, “do not urge me to
take this!” at the same time pocketing it,
with all imaginable condescension. “You
surely cannot spare so vast a sum at once;
you may want a little yourself. Do now
permit
18 DE WILLENBERG,
permit me to take it out of my pocket
again, and give you a few pieces, if you
should be distressed.”
“I am not distressed, madam,” return
ed Victoria, haughtily; “but yet I
thank you for your kindness,” she would
have added; but Stephania, not knowing
what was to come, her kindness took the
alarm, and she hastily interrupted her,
letting the purse drop safely into her
pocket, and then folding her arms across,
and trying to appear vastly disappointed,
“Well, my child, since you will not re
ceive back any part of it, I suppose I must
keep it. I dare not press you, for I see
you have a proud and noble spirit, and
will be an ornament to our convent, to
the various uses of which I will devote
this your sacred offering.”
She now turned to lock the money in
her bureau, and meantime one of the
nuns entered, of a sharp, uncouth, and care
worn visage, which had once been hand
SOIne,
IDE WILLENBERG. 19
some, but was now very little calculated
to inspireadmiration or esteem; her whole
appearance, owing, in a great measure, to
her dress, was vulgar and unprepossessing,
insomuch that Victoria, supposing her to
be one of the lay-sisters (a class employed
in the menial offices of the convent), mere
ly glanced at her as she came in, without
noticing her further.
Of herself, however, the proud, illiberal,
ignorant Constantia had not so mean an
opinion. Accustomed to exact homage,
and at least outward respect, from every
one she had any power over, her towering
pride was stung by this, apparent slight,
and drawing up her long bony neck, with
all the hauteur her disagreeable form and
countenance were capable of expressing,
she threw a scornful look at our heroine,
as she brushed by her, and advancing to
wards the superior, demanded—“Who
has your ladyship got here?”
“One who will be a worthy member
of
20 DE WILLENBERG.
of our community, daughter. She is but
just now arrived.”
“Oh, ay!” resumed Constantia, as con
temptuously as she could, “I suppose this
is the young woman whose father was so
insolent to Garcia this morning at the
gates. Who are you, child?” she con
tinued, turning towards her with an air
of superiority—What is your name?”
“I am agentlewoman, madam, by birth,
and, I trust, by education and manners,”
returned the other, with cold dignity.
“My name is Donna Clara de Manzilla.”
“I think then that Donna Clara de
Manzilla should have condescended to
make a proper obeisance, when she found
herself in the presence of the senora Con
stantia, one of the nuns of the holy con
vent of St. Agnes. Methinks your de
portment contradicts your assertions; Don
na Clara.”
Victoria's disposition was naturally gen
tle and unassuming, but all her pride was
roused by this malignant and unmerited
- insult;
DE WILLENBERG. 41
insult; her cheeks glowed with it, nobility
itself was in her majestic figure as she
arose, and, with striking dignity, retorted
—“To you, madam, I will never con
descend to make obeisance. Your de
portment, whoever you are, classes you
far beneath the one I took you for;” and
walking to another part of the room, she
reseated herself.
“Whom did you take me for?” asked
the nun, indignantly.
“A menial,” was the calm reply.
“A menialſ” reiterated the enraged
Constantia. “ Jesu Maria! a menial
Was ever the like said to me before?
Will your ladyship (addressing the abbess)
suffer me to be thus affronted in your
presence? By the holy sacrament, I will
not bear it !”
The superior had been busy in count
ing the gold into a drawer, and so intent
on her occupation, as not to have noticed
what passed until thus accosted; but the
last words forcibly struck her—“Daugh
ter,
22. DE WILLENBERG.
ter, daughter,” said she, frowning through
the satisfaction and delight that still gleam
ed over her wrinkled brows, “daughter, I
pray you be more temperate in your lan
guage!”
“Temperate, good mother! I wonder
who could be temperate at being so in
sulted. It would make yourself rave and
Swear !”
“Oh, most unpardonable profanation!”
cried Stephania. “ I rave or swear !
Dare not again to shock my ears with so
diabolical an imputation, or dearly shall
you repent the falsehood.”
“It is no falsehood,” maintained Con
stantia, determined on recrimination. “I
tay you can both rave and swear, and
curse too, as well as another. Ay, and
St. Agnes herself would rave and swear
at being treated so.”
“Silence!” roared the abbess; “silence,
mad woman, and quit the room | Do you
want to have the vengeance of that bless
ed saint coming thundering about our
heads 2
IDE WILLENBERG. 23
heads? Instantly withdraw to the cha
pel, prostrate yourself before her image,
and there, by fasting, prayer, and pen
ance, atone, if possible, for your enormous
guilt, and avert the tremendous evils that
will otherwise befall us. My friendship
is as easily forfeited as gained.” -
“I think I have fasted long enough,”
muttered the nun, in an under-tone; “I
had only four meals yesterday, while you
pampered yourself with nine. Hypo
crite ” she continued, “I will have satis
|”
faction on you both !
Her words escaped their ears, and petu
lantly flouncing out, she banged the door
after her with such violence, that its echo
was heard all over the convent.
“Vile, treacherous fiend!” exclaimed
the abbess, when she was gone, in a storm
of passion, forgetful, for a moment, of the
“sweet serenity, Christian charity, and
concórd,” for which she had been so high
ly
24 DE WILLENBERG,
ly extolling herself and her holy com
munity. “Vile, treacherous fiend! I wish
she was dead, or that she had never come
here, to brood over her villainous plots;
but I will unmask her.”
“I think, lady,” observed Victoria, mild
ly, “she has sufficiently unmasked her
Self.”
“Eh! unmask! What said I, daugh
ter?” asked the abbess, starting in alarm,
as if she had unconsciously said too much.
I entreat you, tell me candidly what I
said P” t
“That you wished her dead, and would
unmask her "
“Dead Heaven preserve her I wish
her dead! No, no, child, you must
have mistaken me. Dear sweet soul |
God keep her from all harm She is a
little stubborn now and again, to be sure,
but her real disposition, when you find it
out, is as mild and angelic as my own.”
Her real disposition had, unfortunately,
betrayed
-DE WILLENBERG. 25
betrayed itself already, and there was so
little of the mild and angelic in it, that
the abbess did not gain much in Victo
ria's estimation by the comparison; nor,
indeed, had she formed any very flattering
opinion of her disposition before.
Anxious to change the subject, and to
appear somewhat more conciliating than
she had hitherto been, she took a seat be
side our heroine, and began a string of the
same fulsome compliments on her auditor's
numerous recommendations, which she
was accustomed to pour into the ears of
every newcomer, with the view of gaining
their good opinion, not at all suspecting
how different was their effect.—“Now,
my sweetgirl,” said she, “now that we are
by ourselves, let my compassionate ear
hear the sad recital of your sorrows; fancy
yourself confiding them to a fond and af.
fectionate parent, who will sooth them
with maternal tenderness, and weep over
them as her own. Be candid, daughter—
VOL. III. C conceal
26 I).E WILLENBERG.
conceal nothingfrom me—let me have the
happiness of addressing you by your name.
In a word, I would know what were the
fortunate events that drove you from
amongst mankind, and thus ensured your
eternal salvation.”
Victoria had never practised the task of
dissimulation; it was a task which her
gentle heart had ever forbidden her to
learn, and therefore she had ever been
‘proof against all that would have instruct
ed her in it; but now she saw that, con
sistent with the necessity of keeping her
real name concealed, she absolutely must
dissemble, though, so awkward and un
promising was her first attempt, that none
could have pronounced her ever likely to
excel in it.
- As clearly and concisely as her embar
rassment would permit, she described her
self as the daughter of don Jasper de Man
zilla, a nobleman of the court of Warsaw,
A. - . . . . who
DE willeNBERG. 27
who having insisted on her receiving the
addresses of a man she disliked, and finally,
having been about to force her to give him
her hand, had compelled her to the des
perate expedient of quitting her father's
house for ever, to save herself from the
commission of a still more flagitious crime,
that of yielding her hand to a husband,
without the sanction of her heart, and vo
luntarily doing what would render her for
ever unhappy.
Victoria was fearful that she would cen
sure this step as a breach of filial duty,
but happily the abbess was troubled with
none of those nice scruples of conscience so
very irksome and inconvenient to folks
whose interest it is to flatter the weak
nesses, the foibles, and often the crimes of
others, and, with a most amiable and ac
commodating sort of sophistry, persuade
themselves that vice itself is commend
able, if it suits their views to make it ap
pear so.--" Rejoice, my child,” said she,
. . . . . c 2 “at
28 DE WILLENBERG.
“at the apparent injustice and tyranny of
that father—rejoice and be glad at what
you deemed the cruelty of his nature; it
was the inspiration of Heaven, whose agent
he unconsciously was in the preservation
of your poor soul. Bless the man your
father would have wedded you to, even
though you hate and despise him—pray
for him all the days of your life, for oh,
daughter, were it not for him, you had.
probably never fled the snares spread for
you—you had never thought perhaps of a
world to come.”
“That, madam,” said Victoria, impres
sively, “is what I can never forget while
life and reason are spared me. My sense
of duty to my Creator is such as my enter
ing a monastery can neither diminish or
augment.”
Abashed at this reproof, the superior
arose, to avoid betraying any confusion;
and having rung a small bell, one of the
lay sisters appeared to her command—a
short,
DE WILLENIBERG. 29
*
short, squab figure, with a fat, silly, and
unmeaning face; and her speech betrayed
her to be quite as silly and devoid of com
mon sense as she looked.
“Fetch us some breakfast, good Bertha,”
said the abbess; and turning to Victoria—
“ Daughter,” rejoined she, “our food
here is plain, and what best beseemeth the
humble and meek-hearted. We do some
times indulge in a morning's meal, but it
is only after a long course of fasting and
penance, and then the herb ofthe field is our
meat, and the milk of the goat our drink;
nothing else ever passes our lips, for, to
taste of the luxuries that corrupt the world,
we here hold a most shameful abomina
tion. Bertha, fetch in two lettuces, some
salt, two dried biscuits, and a pint of goat's
milk, if our scanty store will afford us so
many good things: this morning.”
“I will, most holy lady,” replied Ber
tha, turning up the whites of her large
eyes, and curtseying awkwardly; “but
- C 3. sister
*
30 DE WILLENBERG.
sister Frances has mixed too much rain
water with the milk, and so it is all turned
as sour as vinegar.”
“Peace, fool!” cried the abbess, morti
fied and enraged at having such a thing
divulged. “Mix water with it ! how dare
you tell me so 2 Go and fetch some fresh,
from the goat instantly"
“Holy St. Agnes.” ejaculated the sim
ple Bertha, with a ludicrous stare, “does
not yourladyship know it is done everyday
in the year?” Then, by way of deprecating
her anger, she added—“If I can't get any
fresh miłk, shałł I fetch the ham, and the fri
casseed fowl, and the cherry-brandy, out of
the cupboard in your ladyship's bed-room?”
Amidst all her sadness, Victoria could
not help smiling at the open-mouthed sim
pleton who had made such a discovery. It
was indeed a discovery rather too provok
ing for “meekness, piety, or Christian
charity,” to bear, without shewing a tem
per very far from being mild orangelic. . .
- - - - - Forgetful
Df WILLENBERG. 3f.
Forgetful at once of dignity, piety, and
decorum, the exasperated Stephania start
ed from her chair, and in a voice almost
choked with passion—“Audacious, infa
mous liar!” exclaimed she, raising her
clenched hand, as if to strike her, “how
dare you impiously talk in this sanctified
place of ham, fricassee, or brandy? how
dare you presume to offend. my ears, or
pollute the air of this apartment, by ut
tering such words—such vile and abomin
able insinuations? Did you ever know
me to be guilty of eating ham, or drinking
cherry-brandy ?” -
“Never, never !” cried the terrified
Bertha, dropping on her knees in an atti
tude of supplication, very far from grace
ful; “I never saw such a thing enter your
lips as ham or cherry-brandy—never in
my life, as I am a virgin. Oh, reverend
mother, forgive me, and I’ll swear black
and blue that all you say is true, whether
it is or not, as I did when your ladyship
got tipsy the last eve of St. Agnes, and
**, C 4 you
--
32. DE WILLENBERG.
you bid me tell sister Frances it was the
spasms in your throat, and so I told her;
but she said—”
The abbess now became outrageous, and
unable longer to contain her fiery passions
within any thing like moderation. She
stamped violently on the floor; and her
teeth chattering with fury, she aimed so
determined a blow at her unfortunate vic
tim, as felled her instantly at her feet.
“Oh, cruel, hard-hearted barbarian "
burst from the lips of our heroine, who,
shocked and disgusted at her brutality,
could no longer conceal her sentiments of
this unfeeling and unprincipled woman.
Stephania's ear, ever attentive to all that
concerned herself, caught the exclamation
instantly; but it being neither politic nor
convenient to notice it now, she did not
think proper to appear to have heard it.
But far was it from her intention to let it
pass
DE WILLENBERG. 33
pass unregarded. Never yet had any one
in her power, who ventured to express.
their real opinion of her, escaped her pu
nishment and her hatred — never, with
impunity, had any thing in the shape of
insult been offered to her; if policy forbade
her to resent it at the moment, it rankled
deeply within her treacherous and vindic
tive bosom, until an opportunity occurred
for ample vengeance, and then woe to the
unhappy being whose fate was in her
hands ! Victoria's unguarded speech stung
her pride almost into madness, and rôused
her unappeasable spirit of vengeance.
Once offended, she was at heart inexorable;
no power, no concession, could conciliate
her; and this was an insult she determined
that nothing shoulderasefromher memory,
until revenge was hers to its full extent.
Perfect mistress of all the arts of dissi
mulation, and recollecting how far she had
for a moment betrayed herself in presence
of one whose good opinion it was yet her
C 5. interest.
34 DE WIL1,ENBERG.
interest to preserve, she resumed her seat;
and trying to hide her vexation under a
smile of placidity—“You see, daughter,"
said she, “I know how to maintain the
dignity of my station. I punish insolence,
and I reward merit, and am revered for
my impartial kindness throughout the con
vent. Happy are they who conciliate my
favour.”
“No matter at what price, you would
add,” thought Victoria; but aware of the
imprudence of coming to an open rupture,
which she knew that any thing else she
could take umbrage at would undoubtedly
produce, she very wisely assented, by her
silence, to Stephania's good opinion of her
self.
Bertha was in reality more frightened
than hurt; but determined to make the
most of it, she uttered a hideous scream,
which loudly resounding through the
whole building, five or six nuns presently
came running in,in consternation, toknow
- - what
DE WILLENBERG. : 35.
what had happened, and found Bertha:
still sprawling on the floor, and making.
such horrible faces, that, in defiance of
their respect and reverence for the supe
rior, and their compassion for the poor
lay-sister, they burst into a loud laugh. .
“What is the matter, Bertha P” de
manded one of them. * . . -
“My sides are only battered and bruis
ed, that is all,” replied the fallen sufferer,
in a tone of as much humility as she could
assume. “Our sweet lady abbess, the holy
Virgin bless her! has done me the honour.
to knock me down.”
“One of the honours she is most lavish
in the distribution of," observed a pretty
young novice, to a nun who stood be-,
side her. - -
“Yes,” whispered the latter, “she has
been at some of her old pranks again.”
º “Take that audacious prating fool in
stantly hence,” said the abbess, fearful of
further discoveries; “away with her to
C 6 the
36 DE WILLENBERG.
the black cell under the chapel, and there
I command that she be confined three
days on salt and water. Such is the pu
nishment of falsehood.”
“What falsehood, lady, has she dared
to utter?” inquired a nun.
“The Lord reward your kindness, holy
mother "stammered Bertha, as she turn
ed herself on all fours, and slowly raised
her squat figure to an erect posture; “may
I not have half a hard biscuit, the Lord re
ward you?” -
“No!" insisted the abbess, “you shall
not—you are never thankful for anything.”
“Nay, don't you remember, holy mo
ther, how thankful I was for the piece of
ham you gave me on Friday last, and you
said—”
“Away with her, this instant " reite
rated Stephania.
None was sufficiently beyond her juris
diction to hazard a refusal, and at her
desire they led away their blubbering cap.
- tive,
DE WILLENBERG. 37
tive, whose only fault in reality was having
told the truth.
The object of her resentment having
been removed, her deportment wore some.
thing more of the complaisant to Victoria;
and to make amends for the want of fresh
goat's milk, she ordered, not indeed ham,
fricassee, or cherry brandy, which, by the
way, was sacred to her own private use,
but some excellent coffee, which she
thought proper to have found amongst
the stores, and which, she said, she took
as a medicine (a most agreeable one it was!)
whenever any thing put her nerves out of
order.
Whilst supplying her companion, and
regaling herself with about half-a-dozen
cups of no very moderate size, her nerves
and spirits did certainly appear to be re
covering themselves. A degree of plaisan
terie and liveliness stole imperceptibly
into her conversation, that astonished, and
for
38 DE WILLENBERG."
for a while really amused, our heroine,
making her forgetful of her sorrows, in
contemplating the strange character of a
woman, whose face was now decked in
smiles and sunshine—that face which, but
half an hour before, had been darkened and
disfigured by all the horrid and malignant
rage of a demon. But delusive and de
ceitful were her smiles; she ever made
them subservient to some sinister purpose
—sinister indeed, for her sophistry and her
smiles had now completely beguiled Vic
toria into a fatal promise to take the oath
of the noviciate. -
The ceremony of administering this
oath was to be formally performed in the
chapel, for which purpose the superior
issued her command, that all the professed
sisterhood should assemble there immedi
ately after the midday service.
CHAP
DE willENBERG. 39.
CHAPTER II.
*****º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º
Who dares mean one thing and another tell,
My soul detests him as the gates of hell.
Pope's Homer.
THIS order had scarcely been given, when,
with a downcast look of humility and pe
hitence, Constantia returned, and besought
the superior's pardon for her offence, pro
mising, with apparent contrition, that such
should never occur again.
Since her entering the convent, this nun
had ever been in the confidence of the
abbess—a circumstance that very soon had
gained her the ill-will of such of the sister
hood as in their tempers and dispositions
bore a striking resemblance to herself,
, while the insolent air of superiority she
* . . . . immediately
40 DE WILLENBERG.
immediately assumed, and the vulgar and
illiberal propensities she could not help
betraying, gave equal umbrage to the
rest. To this, then, her favourite and de
voted minion, Stephania readily acceded
the forgiveness she required; but each
had, in their reconciliation, their own
distinct views, and those of Constantia
were far from being of the most amicable
nature.
z
“You are, I suppose, aware, daughter,”
said the abbess to the yet-kneeling peni
tent, “that this day is the eve of our feast
of the Annunciation, and is to be observ
ed throughout the convent with all due
solemnity; and besides, within two hours
our other well-beloved daughter here en
ters her noviciate.”
A smile, to which it was impossible to
give any definite meaning, shot over Con
stantia's haggard features, as she heard of
Victoria's determination—a determination
prompted,
DE WILLENBERG. 41
prompted,alas! wheneveryjoy ofearth had
withered from it, by her almost-breaking
heart, as the only source whence consola
tion could ever arise.—“Guided by thewise
counsel, the virtuous precepts, the bright
example, the tender care, and the parental
love of our revered lady abbess,” said she,
constraining herself to address Victoria,
“you will experience here the only real
happiness this sublunary world affords—
may, child, let not the thought of being
immured in a convent throw a gloom over
your spirits; believe me, you will experi
ence every kindness from the abbess, if
deserving ofit; to be so is in your power.
If you merither invaluable friendship, she
will treat you as a friend, as she has con
descended to treat me, for which nothing.
can ever obliterate my gratitude, esteem,
and respect—” -
“Nay, nay, my dearest Constantia,” in
terrupted the abbess, averting her face in
modest confusion, and, with inimitable"
grace and cleverness, playing off the em
barrassment
42 DE WILLE:[BERG."
º
barrassment she pretended to feel at bear
ing herself and her actions thus extolled—
“dearest Constantia, I pray you forbear,
if you wish not to see my cheeks covered
with burning blushes; praises do but tend
to excite vanity. Oh, my sweet friend,
spare your encomiums, for indeed I am.
certain I merit not the half of them.”
“Indeed, holy mother, you certainly do
mot,” thought Constantia; “we there per
fectlycoincide.” Butwhateverherthoughts
or her intentions were, she was not to be:
thus defeated in the pleasure of enume-.
rating to Victoria the favours she might
expect from the superior's bounty. “Yes,
child,” she resumed, “the strongest ties of
gratitude bind me to her. In a very few
weeks after my arrival here, I received the
most signal proofs of her friendship. She
praised me, flattered me, made me her.
confidante, told meall her secrets—aye, se
crets that she dared not impart to her con
fessor—brought me to her own table—
conversed sociably and kindly with me on
* . . the
DE WILLENBERG. 43.
the pleasures of that world we had both
been obliged to quit for ever—fed me with
huxuries that never met the eye of any
other of the sisterhood. When sickness
came upon me, she visited me—gave up
her very prayers to do so—nourished me
with all her own rich cordials, her very
best hock and bucellas, which nobody ever
-tastes but herself, and her very finest rati
fia too—loaded me with all sorts of deli
cacies. Say, then, ought I not to feel
grateful, and to bless her for all this? and
you, sister, will also bless her, for all this
will she do for you if you deserve it.”
“Indeed I shall do no such thing,” ex
claimed the abbess, vehemently, unable,
until this moment, to interrupt her, from
excess of passion, which she dared not to
betray. “Daughter Constantia, I desire
you will instantly hold your tongue. It
does not become me to listen to such un
qualified praises—such ea'aggerations.” .
...All the bitterness of her vexation was
apparent
44 DE WILLENBERG.
apparent in the strong emphasis she laid
on the last word; and Constantia's coun
tenance wore a smile of ill nature at the
malicious discovery of the wines and cor
dials she had thus made, under the mask
of gratitude!
The bell summoning them to prayers,
at length put an end to the subject; and
Victoria, glad to be relieved from society.
so irksome and disagreeable, prepared to
attend mass.
Unlike the rest of the convent, the cha
pel was a magnificent structure of hewn
stone, arrayed internally in all the glitter
ing pomp of wealth, and all the formality.
of Catholic superstition. On three spaci
ous compartments of the ceiling were
painted, in a masterly style, the Birth, Cru
cifixion, and Resurrection of Christ, the
whole piece supported by cherubs of vir
gin gold. On a pedestal of the same pre
cious metal, stood an image, in rich Pa
Iſlall
DE WILLENBERG; 45
rian marble, of St. Agnes, on which was
an inscription ofthe date of the foundation
of the monastery, besides an account of
numerous miracles the saint had wrought,
from time to time, on the spot where the
chapel was erected.
The altar was of the finest ebony, inlaid
with gold and silver, and above it hung a
superb painting of the Last Supper. In as
recess, at one side of it, stood the organ,
from which a full and sonorous peal, ac
companied by the voices of the choir, burst
forth the moment the lady abbess, in all
the majesty of her station, made her ap
pearance. -
The service was solemn and impressive.
During its performance Victoria's every
thought was detached from earth, and that
heaven, where she hoped to meet her
beloved Theodore, alone occupied her.
When the last hymn was sung, the no
- vices
46 DE will ENBERG,
vices all withdrew from the chapel, and a
procession of the nuns filed up towards
the altar on either side Within the rail
ing that enclosed it, on a sort of throne for
the purpose, covered with the richest
Genoa velvet, sat the superior, holding in
her hand a small missal. Between the two
rows of the nuns, Victoria, with a pensive
and graceful step, advanced towards the
altar. Seldom had she looked more love
ly or interesting. She was habited in a
long robe of white muslin; her glossy hair,
of bright auburn, fell in a profusion of
ringlets over her shoulders, covered by a
thin veil, that hid the melancholy of her
features, and extended down almost to her
feet.
Having reached the steps, she bent her
knee on a cushion before the abbess, from
whom she received the missal.—“Take
this holy book, daughter,” said she, “and
here, in presence of these thy sisters, swear
by the truefaith it teacheth,and thereligion
- - thou
IDE WILLENBERG. 47
thou dost profess, that, for ever renouncing
the world and its sins, to become the faith
ful servant and follower of Christ and the
gospel, thou dost with all thy heart, and
with all thy soul and freewill, enter this
the happy and blessed state of the no
viciate; and when such noviciate shall
terminate, thou wilt further fulfil thy
vows, and take the veil.” -
“As a pledge of my truth, do I give
thee back this sacred book,” replied Vic
toria, returning the missal. “My vow is
passed, and I am Heaven's and thine.”
“Thus do we invest thee, Clara de
Manzilla,” resumed the abbess, “with the
garb and cross ofour order; henceforth thy
name is enrolled as a novice of the convent
of St. Agnes;” and, taking off the white
veil Victoria had worn, she substituted
one of thicker and coarser texture, at the
same time throwing round her neck a
string of beads, to which was attached a
silver crucifix. “Arise now,” she re
sumed, “and join your sister novices in
the
48 DE WILLENBERG.
the cloisters; you will afterwards be con
ducted to the cell allotted to you. Daugh
ters,” (to the nuns) “retire ye now to
your respective cells; we will spend the
hours between this and vespers in useful
and pious meditations.” ~ * *
The sisterhood now all smiled graciously
upon Victoria as she passed them; and on
quitting the chapel, they pressed around,
eager to greet her as their future compa
InIOI.
From their fulsome jargon of compli
ments and commendations, which even
their long separation from society had not
been able to make these fair recluses forget,
Victoria anxiously withdrew to her little
cell.
Here indeed was a contrast to the cheer
fulness, the elegance, and the splendour
she had all her lifetime been accustomed to
in her father's house. This was truly the
abode
DE WILLENBERG. 49
abode of solitude, silence, and misery. It
was narrow, dark, and high ; the walls
were covered by a sort of grey plaster;
and a small grated window near the roof,
by admitting a few rays of daylight, just
served to shew every object in all its na
tural gloominess. In one corner stood a
wretched pallet, covered with a few of
the ordinary bed-clothes, in bad condition,
and beside it a solitary chair; in another,
the broken statue of a saint frowned hor
ribly on all around it; and in a third was
a large wooden crucifix, with an effigy of
the Saviour nailed to it.
Such a scene, with rather less of the
dismal and bigoted about it, would have
been somewhat in unison with our hero
ine's feelings at the time; for she was, in
truth, spiritless, dejected, and unhappy;
and, alas! nothing in her present situation
promised the slightest alleviation of that
unhappiness, except the consolations of
her own pious heart, which made her sub
mit unrepiningly to all the decrees of un
WOL. III. D erring
50 DE WILLENBERG.
erring Providence, however rigorous and
severe they might to her weak understand
ing appear to be. Her bosom was full ;
grief and anguish were labouring there;
tears were trickling slowly down her
cheeks, and at length she seated herself on
the bed, unable to prevent them from flow
ing abundantly. Now it was that she
really saw herself separated from father,
friends, and home, and felt all the ago
nies of such a separation—from Theo
dore, too, and for ever!—“Oh, now,” said
she, “now indeed am I truly wretched—
now are my sufferings at their height:
yet,” added she, raising her hands and
eyes, “those sufferings are but of earth.
In another—another and a better world,
my Theodore, shall I rejoin thee; there
no sorrow, no misfortune, comes. Nor let
me say that I am wretched, forsaken, or
deserted. Who can be wretched that have
Heaven for their hope 2—who can be de
serted that have their divine Creator for
their companion and their friend? None.
And, oh, my God, amidst all my trials,
still,
DE WILLENPERG. 51
still, still art thou with me—still art thou
my comforter and my upholder!”
Drying her tears, she knelt down beside
the bed, and remained for some time in
devout and fervent prayer.
Religion is indeed the sweetest balm to
a wounded spirit; placing our confidence
and trust in a higher and supreme Power,
we feel ourselves superior to the petty ills
and vexations that thwart us in this little
world—they sink into insignificance,and in
presence of the Deity, we think but of him
alone. Such were the reflections that recon
ciled Victoria to her fate, and when she
arose, her mind was serene and composed.
In about an hour afterwards, she heard
a gentle tapping at the door of her cell;
and opening it, she beheld, to her astonish
ment, and by no means to her gratifica
tion, the nun Constantia standing beforeher
—the unamiable nun, who, unprovoked,
D 2 had
52 IDE WILLENBERG.
had treated her with such rude and brutal
insolence at their first meeting. Displeas
ed at her intrusion, Victoria could not so
far play the hypocrite as to receive her
with any thing but formality and cold
In€SS.
Nothing daunted, however, by a recep
tion that would have chilled any body
possessed of less effirontery, Constantia,
whose portion of it was far from being very
limited, advanced, and with little ceremo
ny took a seat. Holding out her hand to
Victoria—“I come, my sweet girl,” said
she, “to entreat your forgiveness and
your friendship. Pardon—forget what is
past—think of this morning no more, and
call me by the endearing title of sister and
of friend—do not, do not harbour resent
ment in your bosom against a penitent of.
fender "
“Resentment, senora, is not amongst
my present feelings,” replied Victoria,
coldly; “you have my forgiveness.”
“But
I)E WILLENBERG. 53
“But your friendship, Clara, dearest
Clara, say, shall I not have that?”
“The friendship of one with whom you
are unacquainted yet, cannot be so very
desirable; and mine can be of little ser
vice to any one—it would but poorly repay
the trouble of suing for it.”
“Alas! alas, then ' I see it is as I fear
ed—I have too deeply played a part, a
painful part, that policy suggested—I have
incautiously given an offence that nothing
can ever obliterate from your memory,
and you now hate, despise, and detest me.”
As she said this, the tears, which were
ever conveniently at her command, rushed
from her eyes, powerfully aiding her words
in appealing to Victoria's heart—a heart
full of tenderest compassion, and “the
milk of human kindness.”—“None,” said
she, “none, I trust, are deserving of my
hate; but to the one who thus craves my
friendship, I cannot, will not, if she prove
worthy of it, deny it;” and taking her yet
£xtended hand, “I do forgive you,” she
- D 3 added,
54 IDE WILLENBERG.
added; “let it be forgotten, and if my
friendship can be of use to you, it is
yours.”
“Heard I aright? said you, indeed, you
would forgive me?” cried Constantia,
throwing herself on her neck, and weeping
more copiously. Angel! paragon of love
liness, of excellence, of heavenly virtue,
and is it such a one to whom I dared to
offer insult! Oh! what a wretch have I
been and yet you are thus generous—
thus magnanimous!”
“Do not weep so, my sister, I entreat
you,” said Victoria, gently raising her
head; “let us dismiss the unpleasant sub
ject, to talk or think of it no more.”
“We will dismiss it presently, but not
until I have fully explained the motives
from which I acted towards you, with
such apparent hostility and rudeness: the
constrained kindness of our lady abbess to
you, or the gracious smiles she forced her
demoniac physiognomy to assume before
you, cannot have rendered your senses
blind
DE WILLENBERG, 55
blind to the black depravity of her real
disposition, which, God mend her! nothing
can ever hide from the eye of any common
observer—certainly not! now tell me can
didly what you think of her, and I will
afterwards tell you what she is.”
That this was a base and treacherous
artifice to entrap her—to lure her into
some expression of disrespect for the supe
rior, that would assuredly be productive
of her bitter and lasting enmity, Victoria
did not doubt, and eyeing her with min- .
gled distrust and horror at her duplicity,
she cautiously replied—“The lady abbess
has promised me her maternal care, assur
ed me, that here I shall find tranquillity
and peace, and wherefore should I doubt
it? If to wear the smiles of courtesy is
not natural to her countenance, why should
she force them on it for me? Me, in parti
cular, she could have no interest in deceiv
ing. I cannot think her so base, be her
disposition otherwise what it may.”
“You in particular !” sneered Constan
D 4 tia;
56 DE WILLENBERG,
tia; “so this, forsooth, is your opinion:
now then for mine, ay, and you shall have
it unreservedly given too. I marked the
glances of suspicion you directed towards
me but now, when I spoke of this detest
able woman; but they wronged me—by
my soul, they did! and in defiance of all
your suspicions, I will open your eyes to
the character of Stephania, for I fear not
that your lips will ever betray me. You,
sister, are not the only one she has deceiv
ed, and will continue to deceive, as long
as her body retains the breath of life. I
have experienced her treacheries—I, and
every one else in the convent; long and
dearly-bought experience has taught me
to know her disposition and her cruelties—
those cruelties she shall rue, for all shall
know them, and retribution will come
ere long. Yes,” she resumed, after a mo
ment's pause, while an expression of min
gled irony and vengeance gleamed, in
spite of her, from her meteor eyes—“ she
can smile, and she can stab at the same
time;
DE WILLENBERG. 57
time; she can speak you fairly, and,
with sweetest affectation of courtesy, pro
mise you her protection—her protection!
let her seek protection for herself; a sword
hangs over her devoted head, and who
shall guard her? who shall avert it? none,
none! by St. Agnes, it shall fall when
least she dreads it.”
Here her impetuosity was beginning to
betray her, but she suddenly stopped, and
cast a fearful look at Victoria, who shud
dered as if it was the look of a serpent
that would charm her to destruction.—
“To what does all this tend?” asked the
latter.
“To the best purposes, senora—to prove
me worthy of your confidence, in giving
you mine; and to put you on your guard
against the wiles and machinations of an
insinuating, artful, plausible, hypocritical,
canting, treacherous woman; all this is the
pious and reverend lady abbess of St.
Agnes; and remember, it is a friend, and
one who has your interest at heart, that
D 5 War IIS
58 DE WILLENBERG.
warns you thus, ere experience comes to
convince you that you have trusted and
been deceived—what say you now 2"
“I will never leave it in her power to
betray me,” answered Victoria, half-inclin
ed, after all, to believe this friend a sin
cere one, and credit her professions—“I
thank you for the information, and shall
not use it unworthily.”
The nun saw her advantage, and pur
sued it.—“If yet suspicion lurks in a
corner of your breast,” said she, “answer
me one question, senora, ingenuously, and
as your heart shall dictate: wherefore, if
not for your sake—your interest, should I
have been thus free in my communica
tions? wherefore, I ask, if not for your
sake, should I have made such communi
cations at all?”
Self-interest was evidently as little the
actuator of Constantia's conduct towards
her, as that of the abbess; and if so, sure
ly nothing else but good wishes and mo
tives
DE WILLENBERG. 59
tives of kindness could have prompted all
she had said, for how could she profit by
traducing the superior's character to her?
It did not occur to her, that Constantia
might be gratifying her own vindictive
feelings more than at present appeared.
“I do believe you well inclined towards
me,” she answered, “and shall gratefully
remember what you have told me; I shall
ever be guarded against doing aught tha
might make the abbess my enemy.”
“I am satisfied then,” said Constantia,
and a smile of satisfaction certainly shew
ed that she was. “Yes, my dear sister,
be ever watchful of your most trifling
words and actions, for hereabouts are
many prying eyes and ears; hereabouts.
are those who would eagerly seize any
thing offensive that you might involunta
rily utter, to bear it to Stephania's ear,
and bring upon you punishment and dis
grace. That the abbess is passionate and
revengeful, I need not tell you, but much
D 6 of
60 DE WILLENBERG,
of her character you have yet to learn.
Towards the novices she exercises the
cruellest severities; and any nun evincing
the least feeling of kindness or sympathy
for them, instantly forfeits her favour, and
with it forfeits almost every thing that
renders existence at all supportable here.
This—this alone was the cause, and a pow
erful and imperative one it was, of my
seeming rudeness and indecorum to you
this morning.”
“Do not revert to that again—be it en
tirely forgotten.”
“Well, be it so indeed, noble, generous
minded girl! let us henceforth be united
by the dearest ties of that friendship you
promise me; and so united, endeavour to
render ourselves, in this abode, as happy
as on earth nuns can expect to be.”
“Alas for me!” sighed Victoria, “if
my days pass unruffled by future ill, it is
all I can hope for. Happiness I once did
dream of, and, oh! a sweet—a blissful
dream it was; but long it lasted not—soon,
- SOOIn
DE WILLENBERG. 61
soon I awoke to reality, and never did the
vision return "
“It was Heaven's will, dear Clara, that
it should not; were we to place any value
upon this world's paltry joys, we might
perhaps forget the necessity of preparing
ourselves for those of a world to come.”
“Oh, no, no! term not the sickly and
capricious smiles of fortune here joys!
surely, surely we must be weak, imbecile,
and wicked beings, if such could weam our
minds from heaven"
“True, my sweet counsellor, this life is
but a scene of sorrow and affliction, and
rather calculated to make us look forward
with hopes of a better one. I speak, woe
is me! from my own sad experience—I
too,” passing her hand across her eyes, as
if to wipe away a tear—“I too have
dreamt of happiness, and fancied I possess
ed it—fancied I held a shadow ! fatal, fa
tal error! my credulity has undone me,
and how, you shall now hear:—
“My
62 IDE WILLENEERG.
“My family were noble Spaniards;
part of whom being fervently attached to
the memorable house of Braganza, and the
rest wholly disaffected, a warm controver
sy arose between them, which, alas! ter
minated in the proscription of them all.
“Confiscation and perpetual exilement
was the dreadful sentence pronounced
against them—resistance was of no avail;
supplication, interest, all failed, and they
were banished! My father and mother
fled, with my brother and myself, their
only children, to Poland, where we had
some opulent relatives of high rank; but
our sun of happiness had set in clouds of
woe, and the frown of royalty was the sig
nal for the rest of our misfortunes. By
those relatives we were slighted, and final
ly avoided, and poverty stared us in the
face; for the little ready money we had
been enabled to carry with us was, by this
time, nearly all expended, and the plate
and jewels we had secreted were also gone
- - - for
DE WILLENBER.G. 63
for our subsistence. Poverty and starva
tion, however, had been blessings compar
ed to the miseries that followed.
“In my infancy I had been accounted
handsome; but as I grew up to maturer
years, I was, unfortunately for me, gene
rally known by the name of ‘the beauti
ful Constantia;' that attractive appellation
reached the ears of a young nobleman in
our neighbourhood, elegant and accom
plished, whose seducing arts, as I after
wards learned, few women had been able
to resist; in an hour fatal to my peace, he
came on some frivolous pretence to our
house, in order that he might see me, and
form his own opinion of my much talked
of beauty and fascinations. Unhappily he
did see me, and seeing, admired and woo
ed me.
“I did not less admire him, for he was
extremely handsome in person, and seem
ed to be every thing amiable—everything
that captivates woman. Three days had
he not known me, ere he made professions
—ardent
64 IDE WILLENBERG.
—ardentand open professions, of a sincere
and honourable passion.
“Anxious, if possible, to retrieve our
shattered circumstances, my fatherjoyfully
listened to his proposals, believing them to
be totally disinterested, and prompted by
his love for me, for he had represented to
him my portionless state, and my family's
disgrace. Still, with unwearied assiduity,
he persevered in his suit; his views, he
said, were not mercenary; his fortune
being ample, he requiredno more—he lov
ed me for myself alone—in fine, that he
could not, or would not, existwithout me—
that I was all the world to him. Simple,
credulous, unacquainted with the baseness
and the perfidious treacheries of mankind,
and, moreover, loving Manfred with all
the ardency of a young and inexperienced
female mind, I listened with rapture to
his proffered vows, received them, and
gave him, in return, a solemn assurance
that I would be his—opened to him my
guileless, innocent heart—convinced him
that
-
* IDE WILLENBERG. 65
that he was equally beloved-–that he was
to me the dearest object on earth; in short,
my confessions to him were more than
strict female delicacy warranted. Oh,
villain! consummate artful villain! damn
able, odious deceiver! how did he repay
my ingenuous, but imprudent confidence!
He had won my heart's best affections,
and seeing that he had—seeing that the
gift was in his possession, soon divested it
of its charm: a delay, unaccountable to
me, took place on his part, as to naming a
time for the celebration of our nuptials,
and alone with him one day, I at length
ventured to entreat that he would inform
me of the cause of that delay; but judge
of my astonishment, indignation, and hor
ror, when the wretch, softening the fla
grant insult as much as he could, told me
that marriage had never been his intention,
and proposed that I should become his mis
tress—his mistress!
“Oh! the hand of Heaven itself surely
withheld
66 DE WILLENBERG,
withheld me at that dreadful moment, or
I had snatched the poniard from his side,
and stabbed him to the heart: for some
time my fury was ungovernable, rendered
still more so by his continuing to outrage
my feelings, by offers of liberal annuities
and settlements on myself and family.—
the price of my dishonour! I spoke dag
gers to him, though I used none; my
very looks told him the frenzy of my soul,
and he shrunk dismayed from the glance
that would, if possible, have instantly an
nihilated him. -
“I was rushing from him—rushing
from contagion and guilt—flying, as I
would have recoiled from a beast of prey,
when he caught hold of my garment and
detained me.—“Stay yet, said he—‘stay,
too haughty, lovely, virtuous fair one—a
moment stay, and hear me farther!'
* Monster! I will hear no more P cried
I, dashing him from me with the con
tempt I felt.
‘Nay,’
DE WILLENBERG. 67
‘Nay, persisted he, again holding my
robe, ‘I conjure—I entreat—I implore
you to listen to me—to pardon me!'
* Pardon despicable, detested wretch!
never! by all that is > -
‘Hold, Constantia!' he exclaimed, fran
tically starting from his kneeling posture;
“swear not rashly you know not what I
would say! Adored of my soul, condemn
me not unheard" -
‘What would you—what dare you of
fer in extenuation of your baseness 2' I de
manded. -
“Marriage!" he answered—“lawful, ho
nourable marriage! I will, by Heaven,
make you my wife, if—
“If what?' I impatiently interrupted,
maddened at the idea of some degrading
stipulation.
“If you will consent, he faltered, fear
fully. -* -
“Oh! what unbounded absolute power
the persuasive language of love has over
the susceptible heart of woman! Sense,
reaSOI),
68 DE WILLENBERG,
reason, prudence, all yield to its artful so
phistry and flattery. He vowed, swore
his contrition was as sincere as I could
wish. I did listen, and I believed him.
He entreated still further; I forgave him,
promised that I would endeavour to forget
what had passed, and that I would keep
it entirely from the knowledge of all be
longing to me. In apparent joy and gra
titude, he pressed my hand to his lips,
promising eternal affection.
“We parted, he pretending to be, and
I really, more deeply in love than ever.
Yes, we parted, and I beheld the villain
no more. -
“At an assembly in Warsaw, he saw
the woman destined to rival me—to rob
me of his heart. She was, like himself, of
noble birth, rich, and transcendently-lovely
in personal attractions. At sight of her,
the perfidious traitor Manfred forgot me—
forgot his sacred vows—all, all did he
shake from his memory, and addressed the
lady Clementina as her suitor. Beautiful
enchantress |
DE WILLENBERG, 69
enchantress! she threw all her spells around
him, and their magic power enthralled
him completely. She heard his protesta
tions of love with complacency and delight;
he got introduced to her father, paid his
addresses in proper form, and was received.
“As soon as the day for their union.
was decided on, he had the audacity to
write a long and plausible letter to my
father; it spoke of pretended pecuniary
losses he had sustained, which incapacitat
ed him from supporting me, as I had no
fortune myself, in the splendour that the
rank of his wife would demand. He next
hinted at our degradation at the Spanish
court; saying, that almost on that account
alone, his marriage with me would be
highly disapproved of by his family; stat
ed their arguments against it, pleaded
the absolute necessity of yielding to them,
regretted the alteration of his circumstan
ces—for my sake regretted it! (abomin
able hypocrite!) and ended by declaring
that, in complying with the wishes of his
friends,
70 DE WILLENBERG,
friends, which he dared not disobey, he
inflicted a severe penalty on himself; but
he must break off all acquaintance with
us, and must behold me no more! -
“I will not attempt a description of
what my feelings then were—my wound
ed pride, or of the tremendous indigna
tion of my father and brother. The form
er condescended to reply to his letter, but
it was such a reply as none could have
wished for; it pictured him to himself as
he was—an odious, unprincipled monster,
who ought to be driven from all human
society into never-ending disgrace and ig
nominy. Not content with this, my bro
ther, who was of a temper ardent and im
petuous, wrote him a challenge, on the eve
of the day that was to have been his bridal
one; it was accepted—on the ensuing morn
ing they fought, and Manfred fell.
“The laws of the country awarded the
punishment of death to the survivor in a
duel, and immediate flight was the only
alternative by which my brother could
preserve
DE WILLENBERG. 71
preserve his life. He prepared, without
delay, to quit the kingdom for ever, and
bade us a solemn and affecting farewell;
but he was pursued, and ere he reached
the frontiers, taken, and conveyed before
the officers of justice, who issued his death
warrant in twelve hours afterwards. The
terrible sentence was forthwith put into
execution. Our cup of misery now indeed
was full–the few who had hitherto even
slightly noticed us, deserted us altogether,
owing to this additional stigma—our
disgrace was complete.
“Frederique had been the darling of
my father, who, in a few days after his
son's death, began to droop—he gradually
sunk, and ere five weeks more elapsed, he
was numbered with the dead. -
“My broken-hearted mother did not
long outlive them; persecution and mis
fortune had entirely worn out her patient
spirit; she sickened, and soon followed
them to the tomb, leaving me deserted
and alone, in a wicked world, without a
protector
72 DE WILLENBERG.
protector or a friend—without a human
being on whom I had a single claim, ex
cept from compassion—from charity! and
experience very soon taught me that these
were but slender ones amongst the rich
and great.
“I, who in the days when in the lap
of prosperity, fortune, and luxury, had
been smiled on, caressed, and flattered, by
fawning, crouching sycophants, now that I
was poor, unfortuned, and friendless, was
shunned, spurned, despised by all. I saw
the world in its true colours—I developed
the natural character of mankind, and
from my soul I hated it; for it was all of
black duplicity, villainy, and ingratitude,
that hell ever invented, and I resolved to
quit it for ever. A monastic life was my
resource; I became an inmate of this holy
edifice, where, after the usual term of the
noviciate, I took the veil, and have ever
since devoted myself to Heaven.”
Her voice assumed so much of the pa
thetic
DE WILLENBERG. 73
thetic, as she drew towards the conclusion
of her narrative, that Victoria, who was
shocked at the depravity of Manfred, and
really pitied one who had suffered such a
series of misfortunes, could not help ten
derly sympathizing with her, and even a
tear betrayed itself for her sorrows. She
had indeed a heart “open as day to melt
ing charity,” and which never had refused
a tear to the sufferings of another; and
she was now exactly in a mood suitable
to Constantia's purpose; which was, to
draw from her a confession of whatever
might have doomed her, young and lovely
as she was, to a life of cloistered solitude.
Victoria easily perceived that she wish
ed her to be equally communicative; and
mistaking her artful manoeuvring for de
licacy and embarrassment, she determined
to gratify her, so far as a repetition of the
account she had given the lady abbess
would do, for she was not so incautious
as, even to her new friend, to impart a
VOL. III. E secret,
74, DE will ENBERG.
secret, on which she deemed so much of
her future tranquillity dependent.
Apparently grateful for her confidence,
and satisfied with this account, Constantia
now turned their conversation on topics
less gloomy; endeavouring, by every means,
to ingratiate herself with her artless com
panion.
This being the eve of the day appointed
for holding the celebrated feast of the
Annunciation, instead of the one on which
other monasteries usually held it, was ob
served through the convent as a solemn
fast, so that even had it not been the
first day of our heroine's noviciate, she
would have been obliged to abstain from
food until after the evening service. Con
stantia was thus enabled to linger with
Victoria longer than she could otherwise
have done, without fear of being detect
ed by the superior, who had command
DE will.ENBERG. 75
ed her, on pain of heavy displeasure, not
to quit her cell,
At length the hour for prayers drawing
near, warned her of the danger of further
delay; and after renewed assurances of
friendship and confidence on both sides,
she reluctantly withdrew for the present,
to prepare to accompany the lady abbess
and the rest of the sisterhood to vespers.
E 2 CHAP
76 DE WILLENBERG.
aS
CHAPTER III.
wºr-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-rºw.wº
Il semble toutefois que mon âme troublée
Refuse cette joie, et s'en trouve accablée.
Un moment donne au sort des visages divers;
Et dans ce grand bonheur je crains un grand revers.
CoRN El LLE.
Ere the bat hath flown
Its cloistered flight; ere to black Hecate's summons
The shard-born beetle, with its drowsy hum,
Hath rung night's yawning peal, there shall be done
A deed of dreadful note. SHAKESPEAR E.
THE convent clock had just struck seven
the vesper bell commenced. Never
had Victoria fasted so long, and now, faint .
and indisposed, from want of food, she
entreated that her presence at the chapel
might, for that evening, be dispensed
with.
This
DE WILLENBERG. 77
This request the abbess did not think
it exactly advisable to refuse; but it was
complied with on the specified condition
that it should never, unless in a case of
absolute urgency, be repeated. To such
consent the superior added also her per
mission for our young novice to leave her
cell, and, as an extraordinary indulgence,
to spend the remainder of the evening in
the parlour—a permission which the latter
gladly availed herself of
When again left in solitude, a train of
melancholy reflections returned; a sort of
nervous agitation stole over her imper
ceptibly, and a tear trickled slowly and
involuntarily down her pale cheek, to the
memory of friends dear to her affections,
whom she had fled from, to come amongst
strangers, whose dispositions were unami
able, and whose manners to her were al
ready so chilling and unkind.
In the midst of these sad thoughts, a
E 3 full
78 DE WILLENBERG.
full peal of the organ burst upon her ear,
accompanied by the exquisite voices of
the nuns chanting the praises of the
Deity.
Music was ever a rich and delicious feast
to Victoria's senses, but the sublime me
lody of the sacred song created such pure,
such delightful feelings in her bosom, as
no other sounds ever inspired; and she
now listened enraptured to the beautiful
anthem, on whose every swell and ca
dence she hung with profound attention.
—“These,” thought she, “these are the
strains that raise the soul to heaven,
and lift the ethereal essence of our being
to the Divinity. Surely, if ever to mor
tal was given a foretaste of celestial joys,
it must be in such moments as this, when
all the harmony of heaven is breathed
around.”
She presently forgot all her sorrows, and
even when the organ's vibrations were no
- longer
DE WILLENBERG. 79
longer heard on the air, they yet lingered
on her imagination, until the whole ser
vice was over, and the return of the lady
abbess disturbed her reverie.
“Well, child,” asked the latter, “how
have you employed yourself since?” and
gazing more intently at her, “the traces
of tears are on your cheek; you have been
weeping. Alas! I fear me much that un
hallowed thoughts still intrude on you,
stealing your soul from Heaven. Is it
not so P”
“Forgive me, lady,” said Victoria, pen
sively; “I own a tear, one little tear, ran
lightly down my cheek—it was to the
memory of days gone by. But I will
weep no more.”
The voice and appearance of the abbess
assumed a severity that made our poor
heroine tremble internally for what they
might hereafter be.—“ It were better,
daughter,” said she, folding her arms
across, and striding with dignity up to
E 4 her
80 DE WILLENBERG.
her seat, “it were better had you mingled
your vespers with ours, and joined our
holy choir, than remain here, tainting the
air of such a sacred spot with tears and
sighs profane.”
“Oh, lady, do not thus upbraid me.
Have I not, kneeling at the altar, pro
mised to consecrate my life beneath this
roof to things divine? Here, in cloistered
seclusion, I may, for many a long—long
year, expiate that solitary tear.”
“True, my daughter,” said Stephania,
in a gentler tone, “you have promised
this, and for the present you are forgiven;
but beware of offending in like manner
again.” -
“Alas!” said Victoria to herself, “ if
this tyrant woman holds even our tears
as offences, who here shall be safe from
punishment, from cruelty and oppression?
None, none indeed, under the dominion
of the merciless Stephania.”
Forgetful of the calm dignity and res
- pect
DE WILLENBERG. 8]
pect she usually observed in presence of
the haughty superior, Constantia now
rushed in, and impetuously flung herself
on a seat: her respiration was short and
hurried, as if her body and soul were part
ing; a flush ofdeepest crimson, and a dead
ly paleness, alternately dyed her cheeks,
and she trembled from head to foot with
some violent emotion.
“Heaven preserve us, child!” ejaculated
the terrified abbess, crossing herself, “what
is the matter?—what are you labouring
to say?”
After a tremendous struggle, Constan
tia gained the power of articulation.
“What is it you would say, child?”
again demanded the abbess.
“Oh, lady, lady, that which my lips
almost refuse to utter. I shudder as I tell
it, and the very flesh seems starting with
E 5 horror
82 DE WILLENBERG.
horror from my bones. Jesu be our pre
server ! There is at our gates—a man "
“A man!” reiterated Stephania, her
shrivelled brow contracting with surprise
and indignation, “a man, said you, daugh
ter? For what unrighteous purpose hath
a man, or any thing wearing the form of
male, dared to approach so near us, or
within our hallowed precincts?”
“As yet I know not, holy mother.
He said his business was with our novice,
Donna Clara de Manzilla.”
“With me?” cried Victoria, in a voice
of tumultuous agitation, scarcely less than
the nun's. “Am I betrayed 2 Speak!
speak | Who is he? Whence does he
come? What is his rank?”
“Betrayed " echoed the abbess, fixing
her deep-searching eye upon her. “Daugh
ter, daughter, what mean you? Beware
how you attempt to deceive me!”
“Oh, I know not what I mean: my
thoughts are all anarchy and confusion,
- Tell
DE WILLENBERG. 83
Tell me, tell me, sister Constantia, who it
is would speak to me?”
“I scarcely saw him,” answered the
latter; “but, closely veiled, I ventured to
interrogate him, and entrusting this mini
ature into my hands, he begged I would
faithfully deliver it to you. You will, of
course, know these features 2" at the same
moment producing it from a paper in
which it was wrapped, she presented our
trembling heroine with the portrait of
De Willenberg.
The sudden sight of it was too much
for her; joy, surprise, conviction, over
powered her; all her faculties at once gave
way, and shrieking out — “ Mysterious
God, he lives!” she fell fainting at the
feet of the superior.
“Whose is this miniature?” demanded
Stephania, snatching it from Victoria's
nerveless grasp, and transferring her furi
ous looks to the nun. “Tell me instant
ly, daughter, whom does it represent?
Withhold the truth at thy peril"
E 6 “ He
84 DE WILLENBERG.
“He announced himself as her brother,
whom rumour reported to have fallen in
one of the late battles for his country.
He is not five years her elder, and the
resemblance of their features confirms his
assertion. But what shall I fetch, lady,
to recover her from her swoon 2"
“Some water,” answered the unfeeling
Stephania. “Be that swoon death's mes
senger to her, ere I behold a man's unhal
lowed foot within our walls P’
Before Constantia returned with the
water, Victoria slowly began to revive,
and the first sound that her lips uttered
was—“My Theodore lives!”
Scarcely waiting until she was able to
reply, the abbess impatiently assailed her
with questions.—“Tell me,” she sternly
said, “tell me truly, I charge you, Clara
de Manzilla, what passion was it overcame
you thus 2 If joy, whence did it arise 2
Was it merely the feeling of a fond sis--
ter, or that hideous thing the world calls
love? Answer me truly, as you hope for
mercy!
DE WILLENEERG. 85
mercy! To whom belongs this portrait?”
“To my brother,” Victoria promptly
replied, at once comprehending from her
words that Theodore had introduced him
self as such. “To a dear and valued bro
ther—I pray you give it, and let me hasten
to him.”
“No, no, child, that must not be; such
baubles ill befit your holy calling. Nor
must you now hold converse with a man.
Take this hence, Constantia,” she rejoined,
at the moment the latter entered, carrying
a glass of water; “take it back to him,
and say that sister Clara cannot see him.”
“Hold! unfeeling, inhuman woman "
cried Victoria, endeavouring to arrest her
arm, as she extended the portrait to Con
stantia. Frenzy was in her looks, and the
tears showered from her eyes. “ Nay,
for the love of Heaven, do not so I
must—I will fly to my Theodore! Your
cruelty would drive me mad. Resign it.
Give me the picture!” and with desperate
force she wrested it from her. “Now,
now,
86 DE WILLENBERG.
now, fiend! who dares prevent my seeing
him 2 Conduct me to him "
“I dare and will prevent you,” said the
abbess.
“In pity, dear lady, let her see him "
entreated Constantia; “ opposition may
render her desperate.” - -
“I will see this person myself then,”
said Stephania, after some hesitation, for
she really dreaded that further opposition
would be productive of the effect the nun
suggested; “and if no evil design hath
led him hither, I will, for once, order him
to be admitted to our little waiting-room.
There she shall have my gracious permis
sion to see him,” and with haughty digni
ty she walked out.
Our heroine could hardly impose the
necessary restraint upon her feelings in.
presence of Constantia, who seemed ago
nized with impatience to say something.
No less painful to Victoria was the ne
cessity
DE WILLENBERG. 87
cessity of silence; she felt as if she requir
ed more than woman's strength to bear
her up against such a tide of joy as Theo
dore's presence would assuredly overwhelm
her in. She saw that the nun was eager
to make some communication, or to offer
some opinion, and she would have asked
her a thousand questions concerning him,
could she have done so with safety or pru
dence.
Constantia, however, as if reading her
wishes in her expressive countenance,
when the abbess's receding steps were no
longer heard, quitted her chair, and seated
herself on a couch close beside her.—
“Now, senora,” she asked, with a look of
self-approbation, “did I not truly describe
this woman what she is—a cruel bigoted
tyrant?”
“Would that she merited not such a
character! but to me she has indeed been
unkind. Surely the mere presence of a
man,
88 DE WILLENBERG.
man, and my brother too, cannot contami
nate the place, were it ten times more
sacred than it is.”
“A man's presence!” repeated the nun,
with a sarcastic sneer. “The vile hypo
crite if it could do so, she would have
poisoned the whole place with contamina
tion, and doomed us all long ago to per
dition, if she dared. A man's presence!
For sake of her wicked soul, it is seldom
Heaven's will that a man should venture
near the abode that contains her.”
Victoria was sensibly shocked and dis
gusted at this speech, which shewed the
abbess's depravity, and Constantia's ran
corous hatred; but her thoughts dwelt
not long upon them—Theodore was their
first, their dearest object; to see him, to
hear the voice of her beloved once more,
after the anguish of believing him dead,
assassinated, a joy so totally unexpected,
was, for a while, hardly credible, and she
clasped
DE WILLENBERG. 89
clasped the picture with energy to her
bosom, as if yet doubting that the original
could be in existence.
“It is indeed a noble, a beautiful coun
tenance,” observed Constantia, contriving
to get another glimpse of the miniature;
“ and I do not wonder, senora, at your
affectionate caresses. He says he is your
brother, who was falsely reported to have
been slain.”
“Says! and who—who else could you
have suspected, that is, supposed him to
be 2" inquired the alarmed Victoria, tre
mulously. “ Think you that he is not
my brother ?” -
“ I may be wrong, dear Clara, but
strange fancies sometimes will take hold of
us; and—and—I—(it was a silly thought)
I took him, at the moment, for—your
lover.”
“Hush ! as you hope for heaven, utter
not such fancies ſº cried Victoria, still more
terrified, and with such agitation as in
stantly
90 DE WILLENBERG.
stantly betrayed the truth. “Say not—
think not so. He my lover ! Make not
such idle speeches, I conjure you.”
“Well, well, pardon the supposition;
it was a strange one, I confess; yet, were
he such, I could perhaps have assisted you
to 32
“ Elope with him from hence,” she
would have added, but Victoria's acute
ness quickly supplied what she had left
unsaid.
For the first time the possibility of ef.
fecting her escape now crossed her mind,
and she hesitated whether she should or
should not confide the whole secret to her;
for she plainly saw that it was already
suspected. To disclose it might perhaps
be to make a confidant of an unsafe and
treacherous person, to reveal her real story
to one who might not scruple to betray
her to the abbess, who would assuredly
punish her dissimulation; but, on the
other hand, to withhold it might, by im
plying
DE WILLENBERG. 91
plying a doubt of her fidelity, give um
brage to Constantia, who, from that cause
alone, might reveal her suspicions, and
thus produce the same consequences; so
that, altogether, she resolved to make a
virtue of necessity, and appealing to her
humanity and her assistance, communi
cate the whole.
“What said my brother to make you
think thus?”
“Ah, senora, well I know, from your
manner, that he is not your brother: you
feared to whisper this to me, viewing me,
as you did, with an eye of suspicion, think
ing I would betray you to the abbess.
Betray you to her! No, were I ever in
clined to prove a traitor, racks and tor
ments should not compel me to deliver
you up to the malice of that infernal de
mon.”
“Beware, good sister,” cautioned Vic
toria; “she may, perchance, be within
hearing.”
“Then
92 DE WILLENBERG.
“Then if she is, she is one of the lis
teners that never hear good of themselves.
She would listen, only she well knows
that I could hear her footsteps. But let
us speak low. Now tell me, my friend,
ingenuously, is not my conjecture right,
relative to this young cavalier?”
“It is, it is,” replied Victoria, in a hur
ried voice. “ All is known to you. I
am now in your power; but, oh, if you
would not see me doomed to tortures,
horrible tortures, by the abbess, I beseech
you reveal it not.”
“My bosom shall be the grave of your
secret; there shall it remain in hallowed,
undisturbed repose for ever. Now hear
me.”
“Hark! some one approaches,” inter
rupted Victoria.
“It is the abbess. Not a word—not a
word. Anon I will tell you how I would
serve you.”
With the same stateliness and gravity
Stephania again made her appearance.—
“I have
DE WILLENBERG. " 93
“I have seen this stranger,” said she,
“ and these holy lips have, for the first
time for many a year, held conference
with a male. I stood within the grate,
and questioned him, and finding him to
be thy relative, Clara de Manzilla, I have
given orders for his admittance into the
boarders' waiting-room, where you may
see him; but not alone. Let five mi
nutes be the extent of your interview
with him. Constantia, do you attend her
thither.”
As eagerly as the dread of incurring
suspicion would permit, she flew to the
waiting-room, followed by Constantia, who
endeavoured all the way to inspire her
with the most implicit confidence.
Trembling and agitated, she scarcely
knew why, unless at the possibility of
being disappointed, our heroine stood for
Some moments at the door, ere she had
courage to enter; but her companion re
- minding
94' DE WILI,ENBERG.
minding her of the loss of time, she at
length went in, and there indeed beheld
Theodore himself, fondly, impatiently
waiting for her. -
The first impulse of both would have
been to fly instantly into each other's arms,
but a mutual feeling of diffidence, and the
presence of Constantia, restrained them.
Their countenances, glowing with joy,
fully spoke what their lips timidly refused
to utter—expressions of ardent affection
and rapture. His eyes sparkled with
more than their usual brilliancy, as he
rushed forward and seized her extended
hand, which he pressed with fervour to
his lips.
A sweet seraphic smile of transport
shone over Victoria's face, emblematic of
her pure heart, which had not learned to
disguise its feelings.-"' My Theodore,”
she exclaimed, her bright eyes beaming'
upon his, “’Heaven be praised you are
- safe,
DE WILLENBERG. - 95
safe, and returned to bless my sight once
more, after such a separation " Oh, it was
dreadful dreadful!”
“ Dreadful indeed, in the probability
of its being a lasting one! But my life,
my soul, I am come back to you, and 2”
“We will part no more,” added Vic
toria.
The voice of a consoling angel to suffer
ing mortal could not have been more de
lightful than these words were to De
Willenberg. He could no longer con
trol his eagerness to press her to his bo
som, and he did so.-" What says my
love?” cried he. “ Not part? Again,
my Victoria, say so; tell me, assure me,
that my fears have deceived me, that you
have uttered no rash vow, or 39
Now did the direful, the harrowing re
collection of her oath rush upon her—at
the altar had she vowed to take the veil,
to become a cloistered nun, and return to
- the
96 DE WILLENBERG.
the world no more. And was not such
an oath irrevocable 2
Almost convulsed at the remembrance
of it, she wildly tore herself from his hold.
—“No more no more, I pray you!”
she exclaimed. “ Drive me not frantic |
Hurl me from you, Theodore! Dash,
dash me from you, as you would a serpent,
whose poisonous fangs clung to you ! I
have been false—false as the tempter I
have made a vow, a terrible, a desperate
vow, to take the veil! But you were
gone, I thought, for ever. Oh, pity me,
Heaven " - -
“Say rather you have vowed to take
your life, to plunge a dagger to the very
hilt deep in your breast, to stretch your
self before me, a bleeding corpse—say any
thing but that, and still I can be tran
quil.”
“Would to God that I might unsay
it! but it is too true.”
“This
IDE WILLENBERG. 97
“This is the abbess's doing,” said he,
gazing madly round, as if to blast her with
a look, if she were present. His eye fell
on the tall figure of Constantia, who was
standing at a distance, enveloped in a long
black veil. “Who is she that stands yon
der?” he demanded. “One of hell's mis
sionaries, those darkfiends who have tried to
snatch you from me? Hence! Avaunt!
I will disappoint your malice! Hence!
thou thing infernal" -
“ No, no, my love, do not condemn
her,” interposed Victoria, somewhat re
covering herself. “She would befriend
me.” . -
“Ay,” muttered the angry nun, “fiend,
or whatever thing I am, I have it in my
power to do that.”
A transition, almost instantaneous, from
despair to hope, was visible in De Willen
berg.—“Thou ministering angel! how,
how befriend her? Say, what is it you
would do? Any thing to serve her, and
WOL. III. F gold
98 - DE WILLENBERG.
gold shall reward you here, and Heaven
hereafter.” -
“Nay, senor, moderate your transport,”
advised Constantia, “ and listen coolly. I
want not gold. I would, of my own will,
set this lady free—aid her to escape.”
“May the Divinity pour his blessings
on you! Victoria, hear you this? She
will assist my plan. Instantly prepare to
fly hence with me, to quit this detest
able place for ever.” -
“My vow, De Willenberg my vow,
it is registered above. Think what a
crime it would be, in the eye of Heaven,
to violate it. Any thing but that would
I do for you; any peril else would I this
moment encounter. But oh, reflect upon
my vow ! At the altar I pledged it. I
dare not break it. I dare not, cannot go
hence.” - -
“I tell you, Victoria, no oath extorted
ever can be binding; against such a vow
Heaven hath closed its ear, and the re
- cording
DE WILLENBERG. - 99
cording angel would never sully the sa
cred page with it, even were it heard
above.”
“This is all the work of Stephania's
treachery and bigotry,” asserted Constan
tia; “the unfeeling abbess has done this;
she, by her sophistry and wily arts, se
duced her from you; she it was who fill
ed her pure mind with maxims and super
stitions that the Deity never did sanction—
never will. Her oath, I maintain, is not
binding; it was basely wrested from her,
and she is as free as if she had never pro
nounced it.”
“Oh, would that I could be thus easily
absolved " -
“ You are absolved,” said Theodore.
“But can you possibly love me yet, and
hesitate? Have these flinty walls, and
ice-cold virgins, frozen up every avenue
to your once warm and affectionate heart?
Hath the abbess, whose features, like black
night, throw their sad gloom around these
F 2 dismal
I00 DF: WILLENBERG.
dismal cells—hath she also wrested from
you that love for me you once fondly
owned? Ungrateful, cruel girl! is it for
this I have braved so much?”
“Term me not ungrateful—I merit it
not, Theodore. This is the first ungentle
word you have ever breathed to me.”
“Be it the last! It was uttered in the
warmth of my love. Would you, my
Victoria, would you forsake me? But
do so if you will. I am now poor and de
serted indeed!”
To overcome her scruples Victoria found
a difficult task; but to resist Theodore's
eloquence would have been infinitely more
so—all irresolution vanished.—“When I
forsake you, De Willenberg,” said she,
“may that Power who has supported me
in my hours of anguish forsake me! Sug
gest the means, and this very hour shall
be my last here. I will fly with you.”
“Now am I blessed, most truly" said
he, again straining her to his bosom; “and
- now,
DE WILLENBERG, 10t
now, good sister, (to Constantia), for your
promised aid. The next hour must not
behold my Victoria here.”
“Beware, senorſ we must be circum
spect in this business. She could not now
escape. On every side are those who
watch your footsteps.”
“ Name the moment then when we
may go hence in safety.”
“Hear my plan, and act accordingly.
Beyond the northern gate, adjoining the
village, a sentinel is stationed, to guard
the convent from profane intruders, an
old decrepid wretch, whose poverty is the
warrant of his services to you—a few pieces
of silver will corrupt him, and buy him
completely over to your interest. You
must depart forthwith, and alone; hasten
round to the sentinel, give him the bribe,
and secure his secrecy; that done, you
must withdraw, for a while, to some con
venient place in the neighbourhood, until
the clock shall strike the hour of ten. All
F 3 within
102 DE WILLENTBTERG.
within the convent but our two selves
will then be wrapt in deep sleep. I will
steal softly to sister Clara's cell, and con
duct her safely through the inner gate,
the key of which I have now in my pos
session. When I have led her past that
barrier, you, senor, must do the rest.”
“In one word, one breath, tell me all
I must do.”
“At ten o'clock be on your post, be
side the northern gate, the key of which
the superior never entrusts to any body.
Be provided with a ladder of strong rope,
and at the instant you hear the clock's
last stroke, fling it over without delay;
your lover shall ascend it. When she
gains the top, assist her to descend, and
bear her off.”
“A carriage shall be in readiness,” said
De Willenberg.
“By no means, senor; it must be done
with the most cautious privacy and si
lence. The noise of a carriage would be
- tray
IDE WILLENEERG. 103
tray us all three, besides the unfortunate
guard, to destruction. You must come
there on foot, and unattended.”
* It is wisely suggested; it would be
dangerous, and therefore all shall be as
you advise. I dare not offer you pecuni
ary recompence, for yours is a benevo
lence above all reward on earth; but while
H live, I shall ever remember you with
gratitude; and I feel assured, Victoria, so
will you.”
“Yes, with the truest gratitude my
heart can feel.”
“One condition yet remains, senor.
You must both solemnly swear to me,
that no circumstances, which chance or
design may ever throw you in the way
of, shall force from your lips any part of
this conversation, or a tittle of this our
project; in a word, that even tortures
shall never compel you to betray me.”
“May those tortures fall tenfold on us!
tortures worse than mortal can imagine,
if ever we do ſº cried the impetuous De
F 4 Willenberg,
104 DE WILLENBERG.
Willenberg, snatching the crucifix she
held towards him, and kissing it. “What
says my Victoria?”
“Amen!” replied the latter.
“Amen amen" reiterated the nun,
in a voice deep and awful. “I am satis
fied.” -
They had almost forgotten the necessity
of separating for the present, until Con
stantia suggested, that if they did not do
so, the superior would probably come to
know what was the cause of their delay.
Enjoining him to be punctual, as the
guard would, she said, be relieved at a
quarter past ten, and promising that she
and Victoria would be equally so, she
drew her veil closely over her face, to
avoid the possibility of an unhallowed
gaze from Theodore, and calling to Gar
cia, the portress, to open the gates, and
permit him to repass, she suffered him
again to imprint a kiss on Victoria's hand,
and then fearfully conducted her back to
- the
DE WILLENBERG. 105
the abbess's apartment, for they had al
ready overstaid the given time.
“You have disobeyed my orders,” ob
served Stephania, frowning, as they en
tered, “and must never expect such an
indulgence again. Clara de Manzilla, do
you thus presume to treat the superior of
this convent with disrespect already ?
Dare to repeat such conduct, and you fast
upon hard biscuits and water for a month.”
If any thing was yet wanting to justify
our heroine in the step she was about to
take, this fresh display of Stephania's cha
racter would have effectually fixed her
determination. Such a woman she now
could not but secretly despise and abhor;
every hour her presence was becoming
more and more disgusting, and she wished
sincerely to be relieved from it for ever.
After a scanty supper, Constantia was
ordered to conduct the novices to their
F 5 respective
106 DE WILLENIBERG.
respective cells, and then to retire, with
the rest of the nuns, to the dormitory for
the night.
Gladly did Victoria wish the abbess a
good-night, trusting that she had done so
for the last time; and Constantia's remarks,
when they quitted the parlour, were not
at all calculated to remove her prejudices.
—“ Surely, senora,” said she, “you can
not, after all this, feel a moment's com
punction; you cannot now hesitate to quit
the society of such a monster? Hesitate
No, to do so were a crime. She would
soon pollute your young mind with her
abominable bigotries, and drag you head
long to eternal ruin. From my very soul
I hate and detest her; and even did no
thing but that hatred urge me on to this
undertaking, I would set you free.”
“ But how,” asked Victoria, alarmed
for the nun's own safety, “how will you
account for my absence? She will as
suredly suspect you of being the abettor
- of
DE WILLENE ERG, 107
of my flight, and her heaviest wrath and
vengeance will, in consequence, fall upon
you. What are you to say when I am
missed, and you questioned about me,
to-morrow P”
“Give not that a moment's considera
tion; leave it entirely to me. I will
manage to deceive her. Nor do I fear
aught from her wrath or vengeance. She
is deeply in my power already, and dare
not shew her impotent rage to me.”
They had by this time been joined by
a train of the novices, and could com
municate no farther, until they reached
the door of Victoria's cell, where she had
merely an opportunity to whisper—“ Re
main here for a while contented. At a
quarter before ten expect me. Be ready.
Till then farewell!”
Our heroine, now left to herself, had
subjects sufficient to keep all her thoughts
awake.—“ Every succeeding hour,” said
she, mentally, “proves how variable is
, F 6 - the
108 DE WILLENBERG.
the scene of human existence, how slen
der the thread on which our hopes, our
fears, our joys, and our sorrows hang—a
breath can snap it asunder. It was but
this morning I fancied myself devoted for
the remainder of my life to solitude and
sorrow, eagerly looking forward to the
period when I might conceal that sorrow
beneath the monastic veil; it was but this
morning I believed my beloved Theodore
numbered with the dead—the victim of
treachery and murder. Robbed of him,
life had for me no charms. A convent
was my resource, the last place on earth
I should else have chosen to abide in.
What a change has one short hour pro
duced My apprehensions, sad and fear
ful, are now vanished; and my heart,
which so lately drooped in silent sorrow
and despair, now sits on the very pinnacle
of hope and joy.”
Her heart indeed was almost at her lips,
and fluttered with the delight that beam
- - ed
DE WILLENBERG. 109
ed over her beautiful countenance. She
should again behold her adored father,
again be clasped in his fond embrace, and
part from him no more. She should hear
him pronounce a willing and affectionate
pardon for the transgression (if such it
was) into which her love for Theodore
had led her; she should, in fine, be happy
herself, and see happiness diffused around
her; for surely now nothing more would
separate them. e
Such is human foresight! Thus is it
limited! How infinite is the wisdom of
that Omnipotence who has thus bounded'
our view, and denied to mortal that fore
knowledge of good and evil, which, in
stead of the blessing, the capriciousness
of our nature sometimes renders us de
sirous of, would prove our greatest earth
ly punishment Could we anticipate the
various ills and vicissitudes with which
fate has marked our path through life,
how insignificant would the contrast make
the
I 10 DE WILLENBERG,
the good appear to us! how discontented
and miserable should we all be How
fortunate then is the state of ignorance
that so many deplore, and what a debt of
gratitude do we not owe to a Being so
considerate, so mindful of the tranquillity
of his creatures'.
With a heart equally light, Theodore
was, in the meantime, making arrange
ments for the liberation of his beloved,
with all the zeal and alacrity prompted
by his warm affection for her, and his
detestation of a life of voluntary penance
and seclusion.
Having frequently heard of the notori
ously-rigid sanctity of the Monastery of
St. Agnes, where the presence of man
was said to be shunned almost as scrupu
lously as contagion, he had entertained.
Some doubts as to the probability of his
being admitted there under any pre
tence. But he knew, that should Con
rad
DE WILLENBERG. III
rad be also seen accompanying him, an
absolute denial would be given, which no
arguments would be sufficiently powerful
to make the saintly community retract.
With this conviction, he had wisely left
his servant in the neighbouring village,
taking care of the horses, and after much
rhetoric, and many arguments with Gar
cia, and the most irresistible of all argu
ments, a bribe, he had persuaded her to
carry in his message.
On quitting Victoria, his first care was
to repair cautiously to the northern wall,
where, as Constantia had told him, the
sentinel was pacing to and fro on his post.
His figure and countenance exactly an
swered her description of him. Avarice
and treachery were depicted on his face
in savage characters; and De Willenberg
saw, at the first glance, that he could not
have found one better suited to his pur-,
pose.
This
II2 DE WILLENBERG.
This opinion was fully justified on his
accosting him. The mercenary hireling
eagerly grasped the golden bribe, and his
eyes glistening with delight, and glut
ting on the sight of it, he heard just as
much of the plan as it was indispensable
that she should know, and vowed the
strictest secrecy and fidelity.
Having secured, as he hoped, the ac
quiescence of this man, he hastened to
communicate to his faithful Conrad the
success of his visit, and the project for
Victoria's deliverance,
The joy of this attached servant was
almost unbounded. He reckoned as cer
tain his master's immediate marriage with
the one who had made such a sacrifice to
her affection for him, and his own, soon
afterwards, with the smiling Barbara.
Conrad urged him to retire to bed, and
enjoy an hour's repose, which he was
much
DE WILLENBERG. 113'
much in need of previous to his appoint
ment, but he would not listen to such
a proposal. With such an undertaking
on his mind, and until its accomplish
ment, he knew it was impossible for him
to sleep, and he preferred even the misery
of counting the tedious minutes by which
time crept on, until he heard the clock
proclaim a quarter before ten. Never had
music been more delicious to his ear than
this signal for his departure. His heart
beat, and his face was flushed with tumul
tuousjoy, which roseat first to such a pitch,
that Conrad warned him of the danger
not only of a total failure, but of his being
seized in the attempt, and made a pri
soner, if he did not go perfectly cool and
collected. -
He was thus soon reasoned into his
natural calmness; and having, in a man
ner least likely to create suspicion, ordered
a carriage to be in readiness, to forward
himself and his servant on a journey of
- importance,
II.4 DE WILLENEERG,
importance, under pretence of making
preparations for it, accompanied by Con
rad, whose assistance would be necessary,
he set out for the monastery.
The night was gloomy, and the moon,
as if to favour their undertaking, had
veiled herself beneath a train of clouds.
Conrad, who carried the rope-ladder, ad
vanced on tiptoe to reconnoitre and see if
all was safe. He saw none but a solitary
sentinel in his box, with his musket by .
his side, nor heard anything but a dreary
breeze of wind, that shook the branches
of the surrounding trees.
Theodore presently joined him, and
looking towards the sentry-box, how great,
how dreadful was his astonishment and
dismay, on perceiving that the guard had
been changed, and the present one a per
fect stranger to himself and to his plan
What was now to be done against an
* * - obstacle
DE WILLENBERG. 115
obstacle for which he was so wholly un
prepared? how was it to be overcome?
The first idea that took possession of him
was, that it was an act of treachery on the
part of Constantia. Such a possibility
enraged him almost to madness, and he
would have inevitably betrayed himself,
had not Conrad represented to him how
unlikely it was that she should have been
influenced by treachery, or any other un
worthy motive, against one whom she
knew not, especially when her aid had
been voluntarily proffered. -
This argument he could not reject; but
be it what it might, the present was not
a time for conjecture—it was necessary to
be prompt and resolute in whatever was
to be done, for their own and Victoria's
safety was involved in the event.
Conrad suggested that this man was pro
bably as sordid, and as accessible, by means
ofa bribe, as the other, and advised him to
make
116 DE WILLENBERG.
make the experiment, which he was about
to do, when, advancing for the purpose,
he saw that the sentinel's back was turned
towards him, and that neither himself nor
his attendant had been seen by him. A
thought just then struck him, that should
the man continue in that posture, they
might, with silence and caution, effect
Victoria's liberation entirely without his
knowledge.
Ere they had determined on this, the
clock struck the momentous signal. The
tenth sound had just issued from it, when
De Willenberg, impetuously snatching
the rope from Conrad's hand, darted over,
and flung one end of it across the wall,
beside the gates, and secured the other
outside.
Suspense, fearful and agonizing, for a
moment almost unnerved him, and he
trembled, as if with the consciousness of
Some enormous guilt; but almost in the
º next
DE WILLENBERG. 117
next instant, Victoria's appearing on the
summit of the wall reassured him.
“Once more, my Theodore, I am yours,”
cried she, in a tone of wild joy, that thrill
ed to his very heart.
Their mutual joy was however but
momentary. The sentinel's ear caught
the expression. Suddenly turning round,
he saw what was going forward—a no
vice attempting to escape. —“ Impious
wretches! be this your punishment!” he
roared, in a voice of thunder; and just as
Victoria was in the act of descending, he
presented his musket, fired, and she fell,
with a loud scream, to the ground.
Theodore gave no time to reflection.
She had fallen, to all appearance, lifeless,
and his brain seemed burning with the
fire of madness, fury, and vengeance.
Glaring with these frightful passions, he
flew towards the guard.—“Fiend! minis
ter of hell!” he vociferated, “ man or
devil! I will have revenge; and this—this
shall
118 DE WILLENBERG.
shall send thy recreant soul to its black
master, Lucifer, to expiate thy deed in
flames eternal”
This ebullition of frenzy had scarcely
burst from his foaming lips, when, un
sheathing his sword, he plunged it into
the sentinel's side, who, with a loud and
harrowing groan, fell to the earth, pros
trate, and covered with torrents of blood.
Whileyethis screams resounded through
the air, the convent gates were flung open,
and the demon of this sanguinary scene
of horror suddenly stood before them—
the nun Constantia, who, with a violent
motion, dashing aside her veil, discovered
to the petrified De Willenberg the fiend
like features of Maddeline de Klopstock. .
All hell seemed pictured in her face;
her voice was the exulting yell of Lucifer,
as her flaming and meteor eyes glared
and -glutted on the vengeance she had
wrought.
DE WILLENBERG. 119
wrought.—“Revenge, revenge is mine!”
she shrieked, in frantic joy, “At length
it comes pealing on my ears from the
four winds of heaven. Revenge, great
and terrible, worthy of my wrongs' re
venge worthy of the scorned insulted
Maddeline ! Villain, dost thou know me
now 2 I am the woman you dared to
spurn; but oh, tremble, tremble, wretch!
sink, if thou canst, into the caverns of the
earth, from my fury. I—I have done this
—I planned your ruin; I made you com
mit this sacrilege and your lives will be
the forfeit ! My blood curdles with ha
tred thick and dreadful! All the powers
infernal shall aid my vengeance! It shall
be great—great and tremendous! Mad
with my wrongs, I will hurl destruction
on you!”
Saying this, she screamed out a hideous
laugh of triumph, that would have made
the most abandoned mortal shudder with
horror, and shutting the gates with a
- loud
*
I 20 DE WILLENBERG.
loud noise, she left De Willenberg in
a state that no tongue or pen can well
describe.
CHAP.
DE WILLENBERG. 121
CHAPTER IV.
wº-ºº-ººrººººº-º-º-º-º-º-º-º:
I'm here ! and these the shades of night around me.
I look as if all hell were in my heart,
And I in hell. "Tis surely so with ne! Orw AY.
THE parents of the depraved Maddeline
de Klopstock, whose character forms so
prominent a feature of our story, were Ger
mans by birth, and originally in so hum
ble a station, that they could not possibly
expect, unless from a most extraordinary
revolution of the wheel of fortune, ever to
rise to a more elevated sphere. But For
tune is capricious; her wand does certainly
sometimes produce strange metamorpho
ses, and in one of her sportive moods she
waved it over the lowly abode where this
family had lived for some years in content
ed obscurity and indigence. From the
WOL. III. G scanty
122 IDE WILLENBERG.",
scanty wages of a weekly labourer, Ber
nardine de Klopstock contrived, by dint
of strict parsimony and frugality, to save a
sum, trifling in itself, but sufficient to en
able them to purchase a little shop, toge
ther with the necessary commodities to
carry on the business of a dealer in groce
ries, &c. In addition to this, it had pleas
ed Heaven to bless them with a daughter
—an event which they joyfully hailed as
an omen of its special favour, and certainly
indicative to them of future wealth and
prosperity—an indication which was ful
filled to the very letter. -
The simple Bernardine and his wife,
being of mean extraction, were totally illi
terate, and moreover, as homely—not to
say ugly, a couple, as could be found within
twenty leagues of them; but, by some of
the rules of contrariety, it happened that,
the little Maddeline was a beautiful child,
and promised to grow up in great personal
loveliness. This was another cause of ex
ultation
IDE WILLENBERG. I93
ultation and delight to the happy parents,
who having been long accustomed to see
only their own plain unadorned faces, took
it for granted, in their happy ignorance,
that nature intended she should one day
move in a higher rank, not for a moment
presuming to think that there ever was
such a lusus naturae as an ugly woman of
distinction.
In consequence of this prepossession,
Maddeline was sent to school, in order to
acquire all the graces and accomplishments
befitting an intended lady ofquality. For
this object their till was almost drained,
and the hope of the family was sent off—
not in the style of a grocer's daughter, but
that of a modern boarding-school Miss—
all airs, ignorance, frippery, and show, to
a distant seminary. -
There she learned not, indeed, the ac
complishments befitting a lady, but what
perhaps was the same thing, those that she
G 2 - thought
124 DE WILLENBERG.
thought befitted herself, like many ami
able sprigs of gentility at the present
day—impudence, insolence, vanity, and
ill-nature. She had early learned to ap
preciate the beauty of her face and person,
which was certainly striking, and which
she always took care to display to the ut
most advantage, especially if there hap
pened to be one so hardy as to rival her;
and woe to the one who did To the
younger girls she was a mischievous ty-.
rant, whenever she could be so without
danger to herself; and they not unfre
quently amused themselves with jokes and
raillery at her expence. She in her turn,
however, indulged them with a few prac
tical jokes, such as now and then a harm
less pinch or two, as playfully, but as
effectually as she could, which was some
times followed by a squall, by no means
playful or good-humoured; but oftener her
victim suffered in silence, from the fear of
such another instance of her amiable viva
city; in consequence she was by them hated
- - and
DE willeNBERG. 125
and dreaded, and by girls of her own, and
more advanced age, despised, for her innate
disposition was vicious and depraved.
All this time she had totally neglected
her studies on every literary subject; and
when, in her eighteenth year, she made her
discreditable exit from school, any others
but her ignorant and infatuated parents
would have regretted having sent her there
at all. But their folly and prejudices were
not yet at an end. By way of completing
her education, they sent her to board in a
superstition. In this genial atmosphere
the noxious weeds that nature had im
planted in her bosom, shot into full growth
and bearing; the worst examples of bi
gotry and hypocrisy were daily before her,
and those maxims and principles incul
cated into her which afterwards proved her
bane. She was there convinced that con
vents were in general far from being the
abodes of real purity or religion,
G 3 - After
126 ..I) E WILLENBERG.
After a few months' residence there, she
was again summoned home, where she ap
peared to her delighted parents a model of
perfection. Her beauty was generally talk
ed of, and generally admired; and the name
of Maddeline, the grocer's pretty daughter,
was soon buzzed about by every tongue
in the neighbourhood. Her vanity quick
ly had enough to feast upon, for she was
not only praised, but courted, followed,
and wooed, by a train of the handsomest of
the other sex that Germany could boast;
some wooing her for her beauty alone,
and others, who more needed it, for her
money and her beauty together; for by
this time her father had, by perseverance
and hard labour, realized a tolerable sum.
On her return his profits were doubled and
trebled; his shop was the first now in
the village—resorted to by all; and go
ing on at this rate, his coffers were very
soon filled.
Amongst the most captivating of her
suitors
* *
DE WILLENBERG. 127
suitors was Fugene, the son of baron Ges
nel, who resided in a small castle on the
acclivity of a mountain, that on one side
bounded and overlooked the village. In
face and person he was critically handsome
—in manners fascinating and plausible;
and Maddeline had not known him long
before he made a complete conquest ofher
heart, and vows of love and constancy were
interchanged between them. But, alas!
to their union a fatal and insurmountable
barrier was soon found to exist. Per
ceiving not at first that his views in thus
addressing her were almost entirely of a
mercenary nature, she encouraged him
with all the warmth of affection she was
capable of feeling; nor did she disguise
that affection from her father or mother.
Their acquisition ofimmense wealth had,
however, not rendered them disinterested
in the choice of a partner for her future
life, nor in their eyes could Eugene's rank
at all compensate for his total want of for
* - - G 4 tune.
128 IDE WILLENBERG.
tune. His father, the baron, was endea.
vouring to maintain himself, his wife, a
son (Eugene), and daughter, on a scanty
annuity, which would have been hardly
sufficient to support himself alone in a
style suited to his station, and withal was
so proverbially proud and haughty, as
to render it certain that he would never
consent to his son's marriage with the
daughter of a plebeian, even should such
a marriage bring him the wealth and
splendour of an eastern monarch.
Under these untoward circumstances,
the prudent Bernardine gave him a formal
dismissal, and moreover commanded the
weeping Maddeline never to see him more,
and to discard him from her thoughts alto
gether. But to this peremptory mandate
it was not at all the intention of her tow
ering spirit to yield acquiescence; if her
bosom could boast of a few virtues, filial
obedience and reverence certainly did not
rank the highest; and in spite of all their
arguments,
DE WILLENBERG. 129
arguments, and all their representations of
his motives being more in favour of her
fortune than of herself, she still continued
to cherish his beloved image, and still, un
known to them, to encourage his hopes,
, and give him private meetings.
. These purse-proud folks thought it now
high time to cast off the ignominious ap
pellation of “shopkeepers,” and, like innu
merable others that money raises in the
world, to dub themselves “gentry,” and
live on their fortune. To do this with
greater facility and credit to themselves, it
was deemed expedient to quit for ever
their native village, where every one knew
what they were, and take up their resi
dence in the interior of Poland, where it
was not likely that they should ever be re
cognized. There were also other reasons
for this arrangement, Maddeline had de
cidedly declared against every other suitor
but Eugene, and from him, surrounded by
pride and poverty as he was, they trusted
G 5. - that
130 DE WILLENBERG.
that variety and change of scene would in
time effectually wean her.
Having disposed of their shop, stock,
and fixtures, the necessary preparations
were rapidly made for their journey; and
Eugene being informed of it, contrived to
obtain a parting interview with his beloved.
Sighs, tears, and protestations of mutual
and lasting affection, were the entertain
ments of this doleful meeting; and Mad
deline, to chase away all his doubts, and
evince her amiable constancy and fidelity
to him, gave him the praiseworthy assu
rance, that, as soon as her old father was
laid comfortably under ground, which, in
the course of nature, must be shortly, she
should be mistress of the whole property,
and would marry him immediately, either
with or without the consent of her mother,
should she survive. To Eugene this was
a joyful promise, for he was, like her, hap
pily blessed with an independent spirit,
that had long since shaken off the yoke of
- parental
IDE WILLENBERG. 131
parental authority; and thus, confident of
each other's love, they parted.
Another week brought our travellers to
a beautiful residence, within a few miles
of Warsaw, embellished with all the luxu
ries and comforts that money could pro
cure; and here Bernardine de Klopstock,
the ci-devant day-labourer, acquired the
reputation of being the richest untitled in
dividual in that part of the country.
This was a reputation he had gained by
many a year of toil and drudgery, and he
now determined to preserve it. From
vast and successful speculations in trading
vessels to many parts of India, his wealth
and fame rapidly increased, until at length
satiated with both, he threw off all the
cares of business, and set himself down in
“fat contented idleness” for the remainder
of his life.
At a short distance from their villa, was
G 6 that
H32 DE WILLENBERG,
*
that of M. De Willenberg, between whose
family and theirs a close intimacy soon
commenced, facilitated not a little on the
part of the fickle Maddeline, who having
ence beheld the elegant Theodore, made
up her mind, without hesitation, to become
his wife, if ardent love, wealth, and strata
gem, could make her such.
To this end she decked herself out for
conquest, in beauty's sweetest smiles, and
all its exterior fascinations, which, alas!
were entirely disregarded and lost upon
Theodore. No arts, no alburements, did she
leave unemployed in this great business;
but all—all failed, as did also his father's
remonstrances and commands, as stated in
our preceding pages. Still M. De Willen
berg neither relinquished every hope him
self, nor suffered Maddeline to do so; per
severance, they thought, might effect a
great deal, and animated by this possibi
lity, she did persevere with unabated dili
gence.
Now
DE WILLENR.E.R.G. 133 .
Now that a new and more attractive ob
ject came in her way, she had in reality
forgotten her former lover, Eugene, the
one to whom she had vowed eternal faith;
and while indulging her hopes relative to
Theodore, Eugene himself appeared before
her. He had clandestinely taken a jour
mey to Poland, in order to convince him
self whether she yet remained true to him,
and, with all a lover's ingenuity, he con
trived to meet her privately. Fatal hour!
His expectations received their deathblow.
She reproached him with his poverty, and
his impudence in presuming to address a
woman of her fortune; and finally com
manded him never to intrude on her re
tirement again. This was treatment he was
little prepared for; but whatever he might
have thought of it, he kept to himself at
present, and with all possible deference,
and certainly very little gratitude, took his
leave.
In a few days subsequent to this, her
father
I34 IDE WILLENBERG.
father sent to M. De Willenberg to re
quest a decision, one way or the other, of
the negociation between them for their
son and daughter; and again all his father's
eloquence was exhausted on Theodore, in
favour of Maddeline, but exhausted in
vain. He decidedly protested against such
a woman, and desired that such protest
might forthwith be notified to her, to put
a period at once to her hopes and impor
tunities. It did indeed terminate them ;
but a dreadful termination it was. Her
whole form shook with horrible rage; the
madness of disappointment distended her
eyes, which gleamed with the fires of ven
geance, and terrible and vindictive were
her resolves. In the face of Heaven this.
slighted woman swore that revenge she
would have.
It was rumoured, about the same time,
that some severe pecuniary losses had be
fallen the baron Gesnel, and left him al
most in a state of actual penury, by which
his
DE WILLENBERG. 135
his only daughter was reduced to the ne
cessity of immuring herself for life in a
COnvent. -
This recalled to Maddeline's memory
the discarded Eugene. She felt a spark of
returning affection for him; and as well to
relieve him from the difficulties that press
ed upon him, as to shew her hatred and in
difference to Theodore, she resolved, should
any thing again tempt him to present him- .
self, to renew her promises, and eventually
give him her hand.
As if directed by instinct, he did reap
pear, and again became her suppliant, with
every prospect of success. - He appeared
enraptured at this change in her senti
ments, and uttered innumerable expres
sions of gratitude, protesting that were
the crown of Poland at his command, he
would lay it at her feet. -
Pleased and flattered by these assurances
- of
136 DE WILLENBERG.
of his unbounded attachment, she afforded
him every opportunity of meeting her,
unknown to her father or mother, who
were not at all aware of his being in the
same country with them, or the rapid pro
gress he was making in regaining their
daughter's heart.
. His sister Stephania, a woman proud,
haughty, and overbearing, had retired from
a world she could no longer enjoy herself
in, as soon as this direful change took
place in her father's circumstances, and
crossing into Poland, had entered the con
vent of St. Agnes, with the superior of
which she was intimately acquainted; and
Eugene, in one of his interviews with
Maddeline, unfolded completely to her the
character of a sister he had ever despised,
informing her at the same time of Stepha
nia's residenee, and her chagrin at being
obliged to seclude herself there.
To circumstances relative to his sister
and,
DE WILLENBERG. 137
and his parents, however, he confined his
communications; he took care not to
throw out the slightest intimation that he
was at that very time in expectation of a
lucrative appointment in India, which, by
attention, would probably, in a few years,
put much more in his pocket than a mar
riage with her could ever do, and con
tented himself with assuring her that the
happiness of his whole life should be to de
vote himself entirely to her. But his in
tentions towards her were now of a far less
honourable description than she appre
hended. º
It is an item in the doctrine of chances,
that those events which seem the nearest,
and are most desired by us, are often, by
some strange and perverse circumstances,
retarded or turned aside. Such was the
case with Maddeline, whose love for her
father was of such a heavenly nature, that
she sincerely wished him a safe and speedy
journey to the celestial regions, out of the
CareS
138 DE WILLENBERG.
cares of this wicked world —a journey
which the old gentleman seemed at pre
sent by no means inclined to take. This
was a woeful drawback to her expectations,
and her impatience was not exceeded even
by Eugene's, who sighed for the arrival of
that blissful hour when he might make
her his wife. Alas ! that hour never came.
Her ideas of propriety and decorum were
far from being the most correct, and she
did not scruple to admit her lover every
night, and remain with him several hours
in an alcove, at the remote end of a wood
that shaded her father's house. To this
alcove it was her custom to repair, by a
private door, the key of which she usually
kept, when all the other members of the
family, totally unsuspicious ofthe danger
ous intrigue she was thus carrying on,
had long retired to bed. . .
The opportunity Eugene panted for
now rapidly approached. Maddeline had
slighted him once, and such an insult was
* IleWer
DE WILLENBERG. 139
never to be forgotten or forgiven by him;
he had sworn vengeance, and satisfaction
should be his, and the moment for it was
at hand.
: Their assignation one night had been
for an earlier hour than usual, and, as if
in opposition to it, her father and mother
sat up long beyond their accustomed time
of going to rest. In vain she threw out
hints of the lateness of the hour—in vain
the clock struck ten, eleven, twelve; the
first hour of morning had nearly arrived
when they withdrew, and, enraged at their
delay, her vexation had several times near
ly betrayed her. What would her lover
think of such treatment, such delay ?—
What would he conclude, but that, from
sudden caprice, she was again about to cast
him off? To compensate him, however,
for the length of time she had been obliged
to make him wait, she thought she could
bring him nothing more acceptable than a
specimen of her father's choicest widonia —
- and
140 pe willENBERG.
and lacrymae Christi. Accordingly, hav.
ing procured a small basket to carry them
in, the moment she found herself alone,
she selected two of the best bottles, to
gether with some fine fruits, and ascer
taining that all was safe around her, she
set out to meet her fate.
Exultation at the thought that the mo
ment for the execution of his meditated
crime was so near, beamed over the features
of Eugene, as she entered the arbour. It
was the exultation of a fiend, who had tre
panned his hapless victim, but she saw it
not; they met each other with the usual
endearingsalutations, and in extenuation of
herhavingdetained himsolong,shepresent
lydisplayedwhatshe had brought,and what
proved the agent of his dreadful purpose,
The wine being opened, he filled a
bumper, and drank to her health and hap
piness; after which he insisted that she
should accompany him in another. This
º she
IDE WILLENBERG, 141
she for some little time persisted in de
clining to do; but at length his entreaties
and persuasions succeeded, and she swal
lowed the delicious draught—so delicious,
that it required but little of his eloquence
to prevail on her to repeat it. He took
care to drink so cautiously himself as to
retain the full possession of his senses,
while at the same time he was sufficiently
on his guard against attracting any parti
Seular notice from her in doing so.
The unfortunate Maddeline had not re.
stricted herself to two glasses; and her pro
fligate companion continued to ply her
with the inebriating liquor, in furtherance
of his diabolical design. His conversation
grew by degrees bolder, warmer, and more
licentious, than any he had ever yet ven
tured in her presence; but the copious li
bations of wine she had taken had totally
blunted all sense of delicacy in her, and he
went on unchecked and without restraint.
Emboldened still more, he pressed his lips
to
142 I}E WILLENBERG,
to hers; they were warm and glowing,
like her cheeks, with unhallowed fires.
Flushed with wine, and intoxicated with
his protestations and flatteries, she became
his victim, and the villain triumphed in
her ruin!
The moment of enjoyment past, he per
ceived the magnitude and atrocity of his
crime, and looked forward to the conse
quences he had to dread, if he did not es
cape from them by immediate flight,
which he at once resolved on. Not daring
to wait until her returning senses should
shew her the nature of her situation, he
quitted the alcove, under the pretence of
ascertaining whether she might withdraw
unobserved to her apartment, and saying
he would return in a few minutes; but to
the alcove, or to her, he returned no
more. His resentment was satisfied; ven
geance was his, and without one pang of
remorse for the sorrow, the disgrace, and
the guilt he had heaped upon her, he fled
secretly
IDE WILLENBERG. 143
secretly to a far distant port, and embarked
in three days afterwards for India, where
he trusted he should be safe from punish
ment or retribution. -
In the meantime, Maddeline, whose fame
and peace were thus destroyed for ever,
awoke, from the delirium of her guilty pas
sion, to all the horrors the human mind
can feel. She beheld herself deep sunk in
vice and destruction—disgrace and infamy
staring her in the face, while her lover, a
perjured villain—the one who had seduced
her to the lowest state of mortal degrada
tion—had fled from her for ever!—“But,
oh, ye powers ofjustice,” cried she, as she
knelt, alternately raising and bending her
fiercely-rolling eyes, “and you, ye fiends,
whose office it is to torture with your fires
the soul of perjured man, will ye not aid
me in my mighty revenge? Lend me— ,
lend me your flaming stings, your every
implement of vengeance, till with one
fell sweep I blast to regions ofeternal woe
his
144 IDE WILLENBERG.
his whole accursed race!” Loud and deep
were her execrations; a tempest of furi
ous passions ruffled her whole form, which
looked like nothing human. “On Theo.
dore too,” she roared—“ on Theodore de
Willenberg shall my vengeance also fall.
He—heit was who, slighting, scorning me,
brought me to this. But fatal to him was
the day he did so. My wrongs cry aloud
for retribution; they ascend to the highest
heaven—they pierce to the depths of hell,
and retribution they shall behold!”
Frantic and desperate, she sent forth her
curses upon the whole family of the mis
creant Eugene ; fate, awful and terrible,
appeared to guide her denunciations.
Misfortune hourly pursued the baron Ges
nel, until, in a fit of insanity, he put an end
to his existence by poison, and his broken
hearted lady did not long survive him.
Thus, by death, were two of the objects of
her vindictive rage removed. Eugene
too was far beyond her reach; but still
- One
DE WILLENBERG. 145
one remained—the cloistered Stephania;
and on her devoted head she vowed to
pour the whole torrent that else had fallen
equally on all.
Asif her unlucky stars had not yet done
their worst, she was now doomed to hear
that De Willenberg was high in favour
at Herman Castle, from which a rumour
was set afloat that its beautiful heiress,
Victoria, was shortly to become his bride.
This she was aware she could neither pre
vent nor retard; but having made up her
mind on the great object ofsecuringStepha
nia as one sure victim, she left it to chance
to give her an opportunity of making
either Theodore or Victoria another. To
the ears of her parents she durst not breathe
what had happened—to them durst not
make known her shame, for with all their
failings, Bernardine and his wife were ho
nest and virtuous, and would have spurn
ed and discarded, without mercy, the
vol. III. " H child
146 IDE WILLENBERG.
child who had brought disgrace upon
them in their old age. But she saw that
to remain long at home, and still keep it
concealed, would be impossible. She was
gradually advancing in her pregnancy, and
thought it better to retreat in time, to avoid
the sneers and scorns of an unpitying
world.
Stephania had by this time raised her
self, by her arts, to the unmerited dignity
of abbess of the convent of St. Agnes, and
there it was Maddeline's intention to seek
an asylum for the remainder of her life,
where she might hide her ignominy, and
in secret nourish her meditated vengeance.
She had never, to her knowledge, seen Ste
phania; but judging of her from the base
ness and perfidy of her brother, and from
his ample description of her, she conclud
ed, that being of the same stock, the same
depravity of principle must also be inhe
rent in her, and ofcourse, that even loaded
with infamy as she herself was, she should
- - easily
DE WILLENBERG. 147
easily obtain admittance, by the assistance
of a considerable sum of money, with
which he meant to present her. -
Having purloined a vast quantity of
ready cash and jewels to an enormous va
lue, she forthwith left her father's house
clandestinely, and proceeded to the monas
tery, where, as she had foreseen, the pious
and charitable superior of the community
was very soon wrought by the sight of her
gold into pity for her misfortunes; and
notwithstanding that Maddeline was likely
soon to become a mother, she scrupled not
to let her bring forth the proof of her guilt
beneath her sanctified roof. Stephania
had never either seen or heard ofher before,
and consequently was in total ignorance of
how great a share her brother Eugene had
borne in that guilt; nor was it Madde
line's intention to inform her, or even to
drop the slightest hint that could produce
a suspicion of it, for such a suspicion would
render her watchful, apprehensive, and dis
H 2 trustful,
148 IDE WILLENBERG.
trustful, and perhaps defeat every attempt
at vengeance. Under these circumstances
she had, on entering the convent, assumed
the name of Constantia Zauberflod, and
gave that of her seducer as one whom she
was certain the abbess had never seen.
. Against this one she pretended to direct
all her indignation, and to contemplate the
possibility of her being yet fully avenged
on him—a possibility which Stephania cer
tainly could not see in her present state of
seclusion, for she had now entered the no
viciate, and solemnly sworn to take the
veil at the expiration of it.
A still-born child, to the birth of which
none but the abbess and old Garcia the
portress were privy, was soon the evidence
of the deluded wretch's guilty amour, and
was quickly committed to the earth in a
retired part of the garden.
She had so managed her dress for a few
months, as never to give rise to the least
idea
DE WILLENBERG. 149
idea of her situation in the minds of the
sisterhood; and now that such a disguise
was no longer necessary, and her noviciate
ended, she was formally professed, and re
ceived the veil, as a cloak for all her fu
ture crimes.
A valuable chain of diamonds, which
she presented to the superior, induced the
latter to take an oath—a binding and tre
mendous oath, that no human power, no
earthly tortures, should ever force from
her a word of what she had confided to
her, or a confession in any shape of this
execrable transaction.
Firmly believing that no occasion could
ever occur to extort such a confession, and
far from suspecting that vengeance would
ever be aimed against herself, the abbess
unwarily took the oath required. By the
cross she swore to carry the whole a secret
with her to the tomb—swore never to re
veal to mortal ought concerning her which
H 3 she
150 IDE WILLENEERG,
she might be called upon to make known,
appealing to Heaven to attest her since
rity.
This inviolable oath having passed her
lips, the unfortunate Stephania had sealed
the warrant for her own doom, and the
fiend who had made her do so, could
scarcely conceal her triumph. They now
deemed it politic, and Maddeline more fa
vourable to her views, to feign a mutual
friendship—a sentiment that neither of
them had ever been capable of inspiring
in any bosom ; and while they secretly
hated and abhorred each other, for one had
not long remained a stranger to the other's
disposition, expressions of the most affec
tionate regard passed constantly between
- them.
The next thing to be done was to in
gratiate herself, if possible, with some of
the nuns and novices, for either of those
she intended should be the agents of her
revenge;
DE WILLENBERG. 151
revenge; but this she did not find exactly
very practicable, as, unhappily for her, she
had not been able to render herself more a
favourite with them than she had been
amongsther juvenile companions at school.
The novices usually lived apart from
the professed sisterhood, and, with her in
particular, wished not to associate. The
amiable part of the latter felt the same re
pugnance to her society, and the less libe
ral-minded ones envied anddetested her, be
cause she seemed to monopolize the favour
and confidence of the lady abbess. But
though thus situated, she yet despaired .
not of being able to carry her plan into ex
ecution. -
To a few of the nuns, who, knowing she
was high in power, had encouraged her
overtures of apparent friendship, she had
more than once cautiously ventured to re
present the facility with which they might,
if they wished, escape from the convent,
H 4 and
I52 IDE WILLENBERG.
and from the tyranny and cruelty of Ste
phania for ever; but such hints were to
tally lost upon them, for even that tyranny
and cruelty seemed infinitely more toler
able than the consciousness would be of
having broken their vows. Every propo
sal, every suggestion of the sort, they
promptly rejected, for they had penetra
tion enough to discover the motive that
actuated her.
At length, to her joy, came Victoria,
the one whose young and unsuspicious
mind she hoped might be easily wrought
upon,by those specious arguments she had
hitherto used so unsuccessfully. She had,
as well as the rest of the nuns, been in
stantly struck by her uncommon beauty,
which, by attracting such general notice
and admiration, raised her curiosity more
particularly to know who she was—a curi
osity she left no means untried to gratify.
At first, the possibility of her being the
identical Victoria so universally noted for
her
BE WILLENBERG. I53
her personal endowments, and the object of
Theodore de Willenberg's affection, forci
bly struck her; yet it did not appear like
ly that she had resided in the neighbour
hood of the convent, or surely in such a
place she never would have sought an
abode.
All her manoeuvring and her artifices
were now directed to find out whether she
was in reality the one she represented her
self to be, and, at all events, to discover the
cause of one so young and beautiful enter
ing a monastery avowedly for hiſe. To
elicit her confidence, it seemed necessary
that she should in some measure bestow
hers; and to this end had she fabricated the
tale already narrated of her Spanish parent
age and state persecutions,so plausibly told,
that Victoria must have been more than
sceptical to doubt it. Victoria's prudence,
however, as we have shewn, baffled com
pletely all the efforts of her pretended
friendship; still hope did not forsake her,
H 5 that
154 IDE WILLENBERG.
that time and perseverance would effect
her purpose.
In the interim she thought it as well to
keep on good terms with the abbess, whose
treachery, she doubted not, was equal to
her own, and from whom one unfavourable
word might open Victoria's eyes, and mar
her design at once. To this alone was
owing her seeming penitence for the inso
lence with which she had at first treated our
heroine. But the hour for her masterpiece
was fast advancing; its approach was an
nounced by the arrival at the convent of
the one she had least hoped to see—the
very one whom now she most hated—
Theodore de Willenberg
Never did savage joy and exultation
rise to such a pitch in the bosom of mor
tal, as was that of Maddeline de Klopstock
when she beheld him—when assured that
De Willenberg himself really stood before
her—that Stephania, Victoria, Theodore,
all
DE WILLENBERG. . . 155
all were in her power!—“ Heavenandhell
have heard my prayer,” she impiously said
to herself; “they have given me my vic
tims; and oh, if I pour not my fellest ven
geance on them—if I blast them not, may
the same fate overtake myself, and sal
vation never be mine!”
Now did she triumph in the recollec
tion of the fatal vow of secrecy the abbess
had pledged—now did she look forward to
the certain accomplishment of her atro
cious plot; but the mask was not yet to
be thrown off—all was not ripe for its exe
cution. -
Drawing her veil so closely over her
features as to prevent the possibility of
Theodore's seeing them, she followed Gar
cia to the gate, on receiving the message,
and courteously inquired , the business
upon which he had come; but when he
announced himself as don Guzman, the
H 6 brother
156 DE WILLENBERG.
brother of donna Clara (and well she knew’
that the pretended Clara had no brother),
it was yet more favourable to her views to
let them pass for brother and sister, and
she instantly determined on promoting
what she guessed to be the real object of
his visit—Victoria's escape.
In thisattemptshe trusted that the lovers
would fall by the musket of the sentinel,
whose orders were to fire immediately on
any one who should be daring enough to
scale the wall; but should they not, she
was well aware of the dreadful doom that
always awaited a novice for breaking her
vow and eloping, as well as the partner of
her guilty flight; and to such doom she
knew they would inevitably be sen
tenced. The consequences to herself
might perhaps be fatal, should the part
she acted ever by any chance become
known; yet a little reflection told her she
was guarded against such a contingency;
&S
DE WILLENBERG. I57
as from the abbess she had nothing to fear
on account of her oath, so also she resolved
to exact one equally binding now.
When she had arranged with her un
suspectingvictims the plan for their escape,
and thought that De Willenberg had had
time to bribe the sentinel, she repaired
privately to the latter, after having parted
from Victoria in the dormitory, and with
some pieces of gold more than he had re
ceived from Theodore, allured him to
break his fidelity to him, and secretly get
another guard to supply his place for the
might.
Without a moment's hesitation the
sordid wretch complied; and taking the
proffered purse, he easily engaged one of
his comrades to take his post for a few
hours at the northern gate of the monas
tery. This man too, she meant, should
play a principal part in the tragedy, and
she hastened to give him her instructions,
- accompanying
158 DE WILLENBERG.
accompanying them with some money,
and assprances of a rich reward if he exe
cuted them with punctuality and clever
ness. He was to pretend not to see either
De Willenberg or Victoria, until certain
of his aim, and then instantly to fire,
and, if possible, put an end to them both.
Matters being thus far decided, this
Machiavelian woman, with all the con
summate hypocrisy she was mistress of,
stole on tiptoe to Victoria's cell, to an
nounce to her that it was close upon ten
o'clock. Our confiding heroine had long
been anxiously waiting for her, and the
moment she appeared,joy beamed over her
beautiful features. Joy was also visible in
Maddeline's, but it was from a different
source, and of a different expression.
Victoria's was occasioned by the sweet
hope of being soon reunited to all on earth
she so truly loved; Maddeline's by the
prospect of being amply revenged upon all
she so truly hated. They crept softly
- along
DE WILLENBERG. 159
along the dormitory, fearful of awaking
any of the nuns; and having passed
through the cloisters, and reached the
outer court in safety, they waited for the
signal agreed upon. At length came the
long-wished-for sound of the clock; but
when the last stroke vibrated on the air,
and the rope-ladder was flung over from
without, Victoria trembled in violent agi
tation, and was scarcely able to ascend it.
In this, however, she was assisted by Mad
deline, who returned the pressure of the
affectionate girl's hand, as she mounted
towards the top.–"Remember your oath,”
she again urged, in a solemn and impres
sive tone. -
“So may Heaven remember me!” said
Victoria, who, in a moment afterwards, was
out of sight.
CHAP.
160 IDE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER V.
Ascend, ye ghosts! fantastic forms of night,
In all your different dreadful shapes ascend,
And match the present horror if ye can. Rowe.
APPALLED at Constantia's terrible denun
ciations, for by that name we shall hence
forth know her, which would have struck
horror into any human breast, Conrad
stood for some time transfixed to the spot
where his master had thought it prudent
for him to conceal himself.
Meanwhile the latter had somewhat
recovered his bewildered senses; but they
only returned to shew him his unparellel
ed situation in all its terrors. The beloved
being, for whom he had risked so much,
lying before him on the ground, to all ap
pearance lifeless; the sentinel, who had
* * ventured
-
DE WILLENBERG, 161
ventured to oppose him, fallen by his
hand; himself threatened with some tre
mendous fate, by one whose vindictive
spirit knew no bounds—such a picture
had, he believed, never been presented to
the eye or the mind of man before.
The voice of the sentinel brought him
to himself—“Father of Heaven, receive
my soul—I am murdered?" ejaculated the
wounded wretch, while the blood stream
ed frightfully from his side. * *
De Willenberg looked fiercely on him,
and without a single sentiment of pity.—
“Ay, die, thou dastard dog!” he cried;
“ thou foulest thing that ever wore man's
form " The rapid and frenzied rolling of
his eye was frightful to behold—it indicat
ed some desperate purpose.—“Sainted
spirit of my Victoria!” exclaimed he, as he
rushed towards her, “look down on earth,
and behold thy death avenged! stretch
forth thine arms now to clasp thy Theo
dore; for this same weapon shall disap
- point
*
162 DE WILLENBERG.
point all threats, and send my soul to join
thee!”
“In the name of Heaven, senor, what
is it you would do?” demanded Conrad,
who had darted forward and seized his
arm; “would you dare to attempt your
own life?” and he snatched the sword
from his trembling hand.
The remonstrance appeared to check
the convulsive agitation of his frame,
which suddenly became composed; his
arms dropped passively beside him—his
features lost all their fierceness, and assum
ed a cast of deep melancholy; turning his
eyes languidly on his servant, a tear glis
tened in them as he articulated—“My
kind Conrad, I knew not what I was
about—my senses were disordered Alas!
alas! to what a deplorable state am I re
duced, when force alone could save me
from a crime so horrible—self-destruction
but my Victoria—my murdered Victoria!
why stand I thus here? why heed I my
self, and your lovely form lying lifeless on
the
DE will ENBERG. 163
the cold earth? Oh, Conrad, Conrad,
what a sight, is this!” and with a loud
burst of anguish he stooped to raise her,
Lifting her in his enfeebled arms, he ut
tered a wild cry of joy—“She breathes—
she lives! by all that is merciful, she still
lives!” said he; “her pulse throbs! she re
vives! for this, oh, Providence, I thank
thee! Look up, my beloved—it is your
Theodore who calls you! know you not
his voice? speak to me, my Victoria!”
“Theodore,” she faintly faltered, as her
eyes slowly opened, and she gazed mourn
fully around—“Oh! where are we? what
dreadful, horrid place is this? who hath
brought us hither?”
“Fear nought, my love, from its hor
rors; you are safe while I am near to pro
tect you.”
Her eye rested on the motionless form
of the guard; and as if only now conscious
‘ef their situation—“Oh, take me hence tº
cried she; “let us away, nor dare to linger
OIN
s
164 DE WILLENBERG.
on this fatal spot! we shall be pursued,
and if overtaken, oh, my Theodore! we
shall again be separated! the vile emissa
ries of the abbess will drag me to that
frightful cell again! What, what have
you done, De Willenberg” she demand
ed, pointing towards the sentinel.
Theodore gasped with horror at the
magnitude of the crime of murder—“He
aimed at your precious life, my angel, and
I, oh, God!—I stabbed him to the heart!”
He put his hands to his burning forehead;
large drops of perspiration trickled from
it—his soul was wrung with anguish, and
he tottered a few paces, exclaiming—“This
is the climax of my misery—I am a mur
derer "
“Let us away instantly,” again urged
Victoria, acquiring strength from the con
templation of their general danger; “my
life is safe, Theodore; terror for the mo
ment overpowered me, but I am quite
unhurt—quite safe. Good Heaven! if
We
IDE WILLENBERG. 165.
we delay here, what may be our fate?
come, come away !” and leaning on his
arm for support, she arose.
“Come then, my guardian angel,” said
he, “since you are safe; then will I endea
vour to preserve my own life—still have
I something to live for—I will live for
you alone.”
“Senor, what is to be done with the
body?” hastily inquired Conrad; “we
must not leave it here—it will discover all
if we do, and who can tell what may fol
low 2°
Again they paused in a state of painful
indecision; should they leave the body
thus exposed, it might indeed, as Conrad
suggested, lead to an immediate discovery;
and, on the other hand, should they im
prudently delay there, would it not be
running a risk of being taken? and after
all, what could they do with the body?
how dispose of it, or how conceal it? .
Their situation was indeed a pitiable one.
- Whilst
166 DE WILLENBERG.
Whilst thus wavering, several voices
were heard of men rapidly approaching,
evidently with no favourable intentions
towards them, of whom, Conrad, from
some words he had distinctly heard, was
convinced they were in search.
Victoria's terrors were now at their
height, and she clung to Theodore for his
promised protection.
“What fears my Victoria?” said he,
clasping her still closer to his bosom—
“think you these men, whoever they are,
dare harm you, or would dare to lay a
hostile hand upon you? By Heaven! ere
they do, they must first deprive me of my
sword, and the power to wield it in your
defence "
A body of armed soldiers now advan
ced into the open space before them, head
ed by a prefect of police, a ferocious-look
ing man, from whose repulsive aspect nei
ther courtesy nor lenity was to be expect
ed.—
IDE WILLENBERG, 167
ed—"Whither go ye, strangers?” he de
manded, in a rough and surly voice, which
fully justified them in their opinion of
him, at the same time extending a naked
sabre that he held in his hand, as if to im
pede their further progress. -
At sight of such a crowd, against whom
Theodore felt at once that opposition
would be fruitless, he almost lost all self.
possession.—“ Question us not—we know
not!” he wildly replied, waving him off—
“we know not hence' away ! and let us
pass on!” -
“Ye stir not hence,” insisted the other,
“ until we have learned the cause of all
this alarm—a musket hath been fired just
now—where is the guard?” -
“Yonder he lies a bleeding corpse!”
said a soldier, pointing to him.
“What! murdered? by all the saints,
he is "exclaimed the prefect; “have you
done this bloody and abominable deed?”
he inquired of Theodore.
*
“I have
168 DE WILLENBERG,
“I have—thou art answered,” replied
the latter.
“In the king's name then we make
you three our prisoners! Soldiers, to your
duty bear them away!”
“Never !” cried De Willenberg, roused
into his usual energy, and putting himself
in a posture of defence, while he drew his
sword from its scabbard—“never! while
this sword can awe them off, and I have
strength to use it! while I have life, it
shall defy you all—begone, I say, and let
us pass!”
“Insolent maniac, do you dare to lift
your sword against the officers ofjustice?
but your temerity shall be punished as it
deserves. Soldiers, bind them instantly,
and bear them to prison"
“Gracious God! to prison" cried the
half-frantic Victoria. “Oh, no, no! you
mean it not—you would not do so sure
ly the cruelties of your office cannot have
torn humanity from your heart! For His
- sake,
IDE WILLENBERG. 169
sake, from whom you expect mercy your
self, I beseech you let us be free, and we
will reward and bless you for it!”
“We want no blessings!” said the stern
savage; “cease your canting, woman it
will avail you nothing—away, soldiers!
away with them to the prison"
“Ruffians!” cried Conrad, dashing off
one of the men who had seized De Wil
lenberg's arm; “know ye who they are
whom thus ye dare to insult 2"
“Be silent, Conrad,” hastily interrupted
Theodore.
“Your names, I demand" said the pre
fect, peremptorily; “say directly who and
what ye are: this woman I take to be one
of the holy order of St. Agnes, from her
garb; and you, impious wretch! have
been aiding her to escape—your names
instantly " r
“My name is don Guzman; the lady's
donna Clara, and that is our attendant;
more than this ye shall not know from me.”
“Enough; lead on, soldiers! we will
vol. III. I tame
I70 DE WILLENBERG.
tame their proud, audacious spirits—bind
them fast.”
“By my soul, you bind us not!” main
tained De Willenberg.
“We must submit—resistance is in
vain,” faltered Victoria, and bursting into
tears, she sank at Theodore's feet.
“Have ye no hearts, barbarians?” cried
the latter; “are your bosoms stone or
adamant, that such a sight as this, that
might move the fellest Roman tyrant,
cannot move you ?—but lead on—lead on;
it is but talking to the winds, or worse,
to cruel unfeeling monsters as ye are.
Come, my love! we must indeed submit
to overpowering numbers; yet ere their
hands shall come nigh you with unhallow
ed touch, they shall »
“A truce with your bravado at present,
young man "interrupted the prefect, in a
tone of cool contempt; “it wont do for
where ye are going, nor wipe the crimes
of murder and sacrilege from your con
sciences; we will soon teach you to regard
- - - the
DE WILLENBERG. 17I
the laws, and respect the power ye thus
presumetoinsult. On,soldiers, on! ring the
alarm-bells—beat the loud drums—rouse
up the inhabitants, that they may view
this scene of slaughter, and cry aloud for
justice upon these murderers! quick,
quick, I say! away with them to prison!"
Some of the men now bore off the body
of the sentinel; and others, in the mean
time, bound the hands of Conrad, who
had at first been rather refractory; but the
poor fellow, seeing the weeping Victoria
and his master made captives, offered no
further resistance.
De Willenberg and Victoria were per
mitted to walk together; their hearts
were too full to allow either of them, for
some time, to speak; tears trickled rapid
ly down the cheeks of the former, but he
wept not for himself. Much more than
this could he have borne, were he alone
the sufferer, and Victoria safe; but to be
I 2 hold
172 DE WILLENBERG.
hold a young and lovely female—that fe
male the one his heart adored, exposed to
the ruffianly insolence of these men—to
behold her too on the way to a prison,
under the dreadful imputation of sacrilege,
of which he dared not conjecture the con
sequences, almost required more than the
fortitude of man.
Their situation was really a terrible one
to contemplate, and recalled to our heroine
her reflections in the convent on the insta
bility of all human affairs—the short du
rationfoſ all human happiness.-" Short
lived indeed,” thought she, “has been our
reign of happiness; its sun has set, and will
probably never rise on us in this life
again.”
Herlover's thoughts wereofthe samecast,
sad, dreary, and hopeless; she seemed aware
that his anguish was more on her account
than his own, and endeavoured, though
ineffectually, to reconcile him to their
fate, whatever it might be.—“I have been
a parti
DE WILLENBERG, 173
a participator in your happier hours, my
Theodore,” said she, “ and think you,
when misfortune falls upon you—when
you are threatened with the worst of all
misfortunes, disgrace, that I have not a
right to share it? yes, as we have lived,
as we have thus risked life together, so,
if it must be, together we will die,” and
the words almost choking her, she sobbed
aloud.
Neither, in fact, was capable of offering
consolation to the other, unless it might
be deemed such, that they were not known
to their merciless conductors. They were
now indeed about to be led before the
very face ofjustice and of ignominy; and
from the moment this appeared to be the
case, they had determined that nothing
should compel them to reveal their names,
or give any clue by which it might be
discovered who they were.
Even to die, had this noble-minded
I 3 pair
174 DE WILLENBERG.
pair resolved, as the ones they represented
themselves to be, rather than own their
alliance to count Herman, and by such a
transaction bring the bitterest agony to
his wounded heart, and the most indelible
obloquy on his illustrious name.—“Oh!
never, never,” said Victoria, “shall the
ignominious death of his child break so
good a father's heart! let him mourn me
as lost to him for ever, secluded beyond
recall in a dreary monastery, but never
shall he know my misfortunes or disgrace!
never shall the burning blush of shame
tinge his aged cheek, by the knowledge
that his daughter, his only child, has per
haps perished on a scaffold ! Alas! too
much already has he to reproach me with !”
The horrid din of the alarm-bell, still
ringing violently, had roused from their
beds almost all the inhabitants of the vil
lage; to whom the atrocious crime of a
novice eloping from the convent with a
man, and the murder that followed, having
been
DE WILLENIBERG. 175
been made known, they crowded round
them with the most eager curiosity, to
behold the female who possessed, what
they termed, so daring and impious a spi
rit, and the wicked and sacrilegious
wretch, as they called Theodore, who had
assisted her: in this however they were
disappointed; they had but a momentary
glimpse of their figures, as they passed
through the line of guards that were sta
tioned at the entrance of a large gloomy
looking building, which was to be their
prison for the night.
The prefect, with his accustomed air of
haughty and magisterial dignity, ordered
the soldiers to keep the people off, and
the unhappy captives were conducted to
the apartments respectively allotted to
them.
When Theodore could spare Victoria a
moment from his thoughts, his first consi
deration was for Conrad. It appeared il
I 4 liberal
176 DE WILLENBERG.
liberal and unjust to allow this affection
ate domestic to suffer thus on his account;
but surely he thought it would be abso
lutely criminal, were he to let him run
the dreadful hazard of being convicted,
along with him, of an offence, in which
he had really had no share, and, of course,
of having the same sentence passed against
him.
This he now ventured to represent to
the prefect, whosternly interrupted him.—
“It is but a waste of my time,” said he,
“to listen to these idle remonstrances; I
tell you, sir, they are in vain; the conse
quences of your crimes will fall equally on
the three of you, if I mistake not the
laws of that high and august tribunal, be
fore which to-morrow's fatal noon will
bring you; till then, methinks this is
enough for you to know.”
. Meanwhile Victoria had been attended
to her little chamber, which was strongly
-
guarded
DE WILLENBERG. 177
guarded on the outside, by a young girl,
daughter to the keeper of the prison,
whose words and manner instantly de
clared that she had a generous and feeling
heart. She longed to know the history
of her fair charge, and the circumstances
(for uncommon, she thought,they must be)
that could lead a young lady, so highly
gifted by nature, to enter a monastery for
the avowed purpose of secluding herself
there for life, and afterwards to elope, and
with her brother. But knowing the cha
racter of the abbess of St. Agnes, she
readily concluded that the unparelleled
austerities practised there had driven her
thence, and she was the more inclined to
pity her for the consequences. She would
have informed her of the terrible punish
ments by which such offences were usual
ly visited, but she saw that Victoria wish
ed to be alone, and that her mind was al
ready in too disturbed a state to be able to
bear any additional torture; and after wish
ing her, what it was impossible she could
I 5. experience,
178 DE willENBERG.
experience, a tranquil night, she left her
for a few hours to weep in solitude over
her own and herTheodore's hapless destiny.
To Theodore solitude and reflection
were however infinitely more agonizing;
for to the horrors that surrounded him,
and the still-deeper ones that threatened
him, were added all the lacerating pangs
of self-accusation. He was himself the
author of this dire calamity he it was
who had plunged Victoria into guilt and
into misery, that would end but with the
few 'short hours of life! But for him,
would aught of this have ever befallen her?
—no Had she never known him, would
any thing have ever placed her in such a
situation as her present one? would any
thing ever have ruffled the serenity of her
life?—no! Had she never known him,
would any thing ever have brought the
high-born Victoria within the walls of a
dungeon?—oh, never, never! she had
now been in the bosom of her adoring fa
- mily,
DE WILLENBERG, 179
mily, amidst the splendour her birth enti
tled her to, and as happy as she deserved
to be.
Sad and heart-rending was the picture
now. His very soul was harrowed with
this conviction, and despair took almost
entire possession of him.—“Oh, Father of
Mercy, forgive me for all this " he ejacu
lated, sinking on his knees; “endue her
with fortitude to bear her through these
unequalled trials, and teach her young
heart to forgive me also. But how,” ex
claimed he, starting up, and pacing the
room in wild and frantic disorder—“how
shall I hope for her father's forgiveness?
how shall I endure his curse, his heavy
and bitter malediction, when he shall know
that the one whom his friendship cherish
ed and honoured, brought destruction on
the child his very heart and soul adored?”
Worn out with extreme agony, he threw
himself on the hard and uncomfortable
I 6 couch
180 DE WILLENBERG.
couch that had supported the trembling
limbs of many an unfortunate culprit be
fore.
The night he spent was one of such
wretchedness as he had never known be
fore: frightful dreams disturbed his tran
sient slumbers, and appalling visions rose
to his frenzied imagination. He thought
on one side he beheld Victoria, the victim
of her fatal attachment to him, expiring
beneath the cruellest tortures of the in
quisitorial power; while, on the other,
stood the count, her father, the fiercest
fires of vengeance flaming from his eyes,
brandishing in his hand a naked sabre,
ready, at a blow, to sever the head from
that fascinating form which had lured his
Victoria to destruction and death.
From these dreams he was awakened
to reality next morning, at an early hour,
by one of the petty officers of the prison,
who, with consternation in his looks, en
tered
DE WILLENBERG, 181
tered to inform him that he must arise
without delay; the abbess of St. Agnes
having dispatched a messenger in the
night to the consistorial court at Warsaw,
with the intelligence of the elopement of
a novice from the convent; and from that
dread tribunal an order had just arrived,
that they should be forthwith conveyed
thither under a strong military escort.
The fulfilment, to their utmost extent,
of all Constantia's diabolical threats of re
venge, now struck with full and terrible
conviction to the chilled heart of De Wil
lenberg. Now indeed would vengeance,
ample and horrible, be hers, if their fate had
been put into thehands of the Consistory—
a court whose very name brought terror
with it, and where every offence against
the Catholic religion was punished by
tortures that were only equalled by those
of the Inquisition.
If any thing was capable of rendering
• his
182 DE. WILT, ENBERG.
his situation more hopeless and desperate,
it was surely such a summons as this; for
from those inflexible judges no leniency,
no mercy, was to be expected; and, alas !
there was but little extenuation to be offer.
ed for what they had done. The abbess
too would equally vent her vindictive rage
against Victoria; she would doubtless ex
ert all the influence attached to the office
she filled, to have a terrible example made
of them both, so that such a crime should
never be attempted by any other. Alto
gether he saw that Constantia's vengeance
would be indeed complete, for there was
now no way of escaping it. -
The solemn and inviolable oath by
which he and Victoria had pledged them
selves to secrecy, in all that concerned her
in the flight of the latter, now recurred to
him, as an additional cause for regret and
self-reproach, for all this had she had in con
templation when she proposed that oath;
and thus had she woven a net around them,
from
DE will ENBERG. 183
from which he saw no means of their be
ing able to disenthral themselves; for ra
ther than violate that oath, tremendous as
it was, and lay the sin of perjury upon
their souls, what were the penalties, the
torments, in mortal power to inflict, that
it did not appear preferable to undergo 2
—none! But it was not in human nature
to reflect coolly and undismayed on the
alternate rage, the horrid exultation, and
the frightful threats, of this abandoned and
execrable woman. He recalled her to his
mind, just as she had stood at the con
vent-gate, divested of every thing human
but the form; only the figure of Lucifer
himself could have been more shocking to
behold; and he now rejoiced at the state
of insensibility which had prevented Vic
toria from seeing her so hideously meta
morphosed, or hearing language that be
came none but an inhabitant of the infer
nal world.
Trembling at the thought of meeting
Victoria–
184 DE WILLENBERG.
Victoria—meeting her to hear her inform
ed that she was to be arraigned before the
Consistory for sacrilege, into which he had
led her, he prepared to obey the awful
mandate as expeditiously as circumstances
would permit. He met her, after much
such a night as he had passed himself, ad
vancing down the staircase that led from
the part of the building appropriated to
the female captives; but how altered was
her appearance! how sad and sudden the
change!—that form, that face, where, so
lately, unrivalled beauty had shone in all
the attractive loveliness of perfect health,
now no longer wore its vigorous aspect, or
its roseate bloom. She was pale, languid,
and unwell; her eyes had lost their spark
ling lustre, and their heavy and spiritless
cast, as they met his fearful gaze, almost
appeared to him as the last faint gleam of
departing life. He fancied it, what it was
really not intended for, a glance of deep
reproach; and, self-convicted, he would
have flown from her presence, had not the
sight
DE WILLENBERG. I85
sight of the guards reminded him that he
could not do so.
“We have received an awful summons,”
observed Victoria, at length gaining ut
terance through her tears.
“Ye have indeed, lady,” replied the
prefect, “and one that is likely to lead
you to your last summons; I warrant you
will never inform us of what they do to
you, for they say, ‘dead people tell no
tales;” and he accompanied his words with
a malignant laugh. *
“ Unfeeling, barbarous monster!” ex
claimed De Willenberg, darting a look of
contempt and horror at him; he seized
Victoria's passive hand for a moment, but
it was only for a moment. They had
reached the large entrance-door, and, at
the prefect's command, they were hurried
quickly into the carriages that waited to
convey them separately to the tribunal
of the Consistory at Warsaw,
CHAP.
I86 DE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER VI.
The shuddering angels round th' eternal throne,
Veiling themselves in glory, shriek, “impossible!”
But hell doth know it true. Tragedy of Bertram.
FEASTING all her vindictive passions with
the diabolical scheme of iniquity she fur
ther meditated, Constantia, having made
surp of her two first victims, repaired
swiftly and cautiously to the cell of Gar
cia, the portress, who was asleep; but tap
ºping gently, she awoke her.
“Blessed Virgin P ejaculated the terri
fied old woman, rubbing her eyes, which
were almost sightless, “what has brought
you here, daughter, at such an hour of the
night as this, when I thought every soul
in the convent was in their second sleep?”
“Something for your advantage, my
- º friend,”
IDE WILLENBERG. 187
friend,” said the nun, rushing in and has
tily shutting the door; “but speak low, I
entreat you, dear, dear Garcia, or we may
be overheard. You are a good old soul,
and would, I know, do any thing to serve
me, and therefore I will reward you nobly.”
“Ay, that I would, Heaven bless you,
daughter! I would lose my very life to
serve you ! God keep me from all harm
but what is it I must do?”
“First pocket these three golden ducats,
as an earnest of the vast reward I intend
you, and then you must swear »
“I will swear any thing!” interrupted
the hag, grasping the ducats, as if they
were the records of her salvation—“name
the oath.”
“Swear by this cross, you will faithful
ly do all that I shall require of you, and
never, never betray me.”
“I swear it?” said Garcia, pressing the
cross to her withered lips. “Now tell me,
daughter, whom does this same oath con
Cern ?”
&6 1.
188 DE WILLENBERG,
“It concerns our lady the abbess.”
“Ah! Heaven bless the dear, sweet
soul, and all that does concern her I am
sure I love her as if she was my own born
sister.”
“Do you indeed? methinks it is but
lately you have become so wonderfully
affectionate l" observed Constantia, sarcas
tically; “but perhaps she can reward
your affection better than my poor ducats
can.” -
“She reward me ! a murrain on her
stingy heart! she never gave me a single
florin in her life. She reward me ! the
miserly old cat!—marry, a likely thing
indeed!”
“What! not even for your long an
faithful services here?” -
“ Not a tinse!”
“Nor for your gaining her the favour
of the last abbess, and so helping her into
her present dignity ?”
“Ah! God forgive me for saying a
word in her favour to any body, or help
ing
DE WILLENBERG. 189
ing her into it at all. I only wish I could
help her out of it again to the bottom of
the Red Seal”
“Do you really wish she was removed
from it?” *
“ Ay, marry! to Jericho, or Jerusa.
lem, or old Nick, or anywhere out of
this l’’
“A proof how sincerely you love her!"
“ Indeed I do not, nor ever did. I
wonder what I should love her for Ah,
child! I wish you were in her place, and I
should love you dearly.”
“No doubt it would be dearly, sure
enough,” thought Constantia. Then tak
ing the hand of this matured hypocrite in
hers—“ This, my friend, is exactly the
point I wished to come to,” said she.
“You actually wish then that I was the
abbess of St. Agnes?”
“Ah, that I could see that day! A
happy day it would be for us all, if old
Stephania was put out of the way "
“ So she shall !” said the determined
Illlll.
190 DE WILLENBERG.
nun. “Ill gotten—ill gone. She gained
her place by her own deep artifices, and
she shall lose it by mine. I will be lady
abbess; and for your assistance in the
affair, will, when I am such, raise you to
a station far higher than your present
one.” w
“Bless your sweet face | You will be
an ornament and an honour to it—not like
the vile Stephania, God forgive her wick
ed soul!”
“Yes, she is wicked enough to do any
thing. Hark you, Garcia, do not you re
member something about her giving you
a new-born infant one night to bury in
the garden?”
“Ay,lady, yoursweetbabe, Heaven.bless
it!" Seeing a terrible frown darken Con
stantia's features, she stammered—“No,
not yours; but the—the child—but the
infant, I mean, that the abbess handed
me—ay, the lady abbess herself; and
sure and certain I am that it was her own,
the vile scandalous creature!”
“You
DE WILLENBERG. I 91.
“You really then believe, without any
doubt, that it was hers?” asked the nun,
in a tone from which Garcia instantly
took her answer.
“Doubtſ why, child, how could I doubt
what I saw with my own two good eyes—
a thing as clear as daylight? Between
ourselves, I knew that our lady the su
perior was pregnant long before. But,
God reward me! I am not one of your
mischief-makers, and so I held my
tongue.”
Even Constantia shuddered at the en
ormous depravity of this woman; but it
was not her part to condemn her, and veil
ing, as well as she could, whatever dis
gust she was capable of feeling at false
hood so monstrous, beneath her gratifica
tion at having thus brought her exactly
to her purpose—“That child, Garcia,” said
she, “was the superior's; and woeful to
her was the day it saw the light. By my
forbearance and silence she has hitherto
escaped the punishment due to her foul
- - and
192 DE WILLENBERG.
and lustful crime—justice has slumbered
till now, but it slumbers no longer; it
shall rise, bloody and tremendous as the
lion wakes upon his prey ! Ay, Garcia,
I hate the abbess! for great and terrible
reasons I hate her, and the one whom my
hatred falls on is lost! Now you compre
hend me, and know what I expect of
you. Remember your oath of allegiance
to me, and as you prove false or faithful
to me, so will I deal with you. Once
more, remember, Garcia, that my resolves
are irrevocable—my hatred fatal!”
Saying this, she shook Garcia's shrivel
led hand, as an earnest of her friendship;
and having informed her when she would
probably be called upon to fulfil her oath,
she left this minion of vice to a restless
night, and hastened on to the maturation
of her plot.
She retired to her cell for a while, and
throwing off some of her outer clothes,
- she
DE WILLENBERG. 193
she put on a sort of robe de nuit, as if she
had just risen from bed, and then pro
ceeded to the sleeping apartment of the
abbess.
She had previously prepared her ac
commodating countenance, by assuming
as much of the épouvante and dismal as
hypocrisy could furnish her with, and tap
ping gently, she was admitted.
The abbess was really alarmed at so
uncommon a visit, and trembling, she
stretched forth her head, to ascertain if the
unhallowed figure of some man in the
corridor might not be the cause of all this.
—“Daughter,” said she, “in the name of
the Holy Virgin, I ask, what can have
led you thus to intrude upon my hours
of repose?”
“Oh, lady, something dreadful and un
common, you may be sure! I have been
terrified almost out of my senses. Have
you not heard the report of a musket?”
WOL. III. K “A mus
194 DE WILLENBERG.
“A musket, child!” repeated the abbess,
her saintly eyes dilating with fresh alarm,
and her whole frame trembling. “Where
—where?”
“It could only have been at the north
ern gate, lady. Perhaps some one, in the
abominable shape of man, has been at
tempting to—”
“What! to enter our innmaculate sanc
tuary, as the evil one stole into the gar
den of Eden P Heaven and earth a
maddening thought rushes on my brain!
Daughter! daughter! it will drive me
frantic' – it will kill me quite That
daring wretch, whose presence polluted
our walls this evening—it is he—it is
hel Let me not name him—it is Clara's
infamous paramour. With the speed of
the wind fly to see if all is safe in the
dormitory. Look to that vile wanton,
Clara de Manzilla!” .
“Holy mother this is what I myself
suspected. I saw lust, and all the sin of
the devil, in his countenance. The mon
Ster
DE WILLENBERG. 195
ster too (oh, horror of horrors!) is her bro
ther " -
“I will go myself.” exclaimed Stepha
nia, snatching the lamp from the nun,
and hardly knowing what she was about
—“I will go myself, and if such a thought
has but crossed her mind, as an elopement
hence, I will tear her limb from limb, and
hurl her piecemeal to perdition "
Almost in the next moment these two
proselytes of Satan were in the dormitory.
Every cell was explored, and every novice
visible but Victoria. She had indeed fled,
and, not a doubt remained, with her stip
posed brother.
Loud, wild, and stormy, was the rage
of the abbess; she looked like the presid
ing demon of the nether regions, gather
ing her imps about her to execute some
hellish and terrible command.
The whole convent was alarmed, and
l K 2 in
196 DE WILLENBERG.
in a few minutes all its inmates had start
ed from their beds, to mingle in the gene
ral outcry and consternation. Constantia
was amongst the loudest and most violent
in their exclamations against the fugitive,
bewailing the indelible stigma such a
circumstance would bring upon the whole
order, sympathizing in all the superior's
wrath and indignation, and, in fine, acting
her part to such perfection, that it was
totally impossible she could be suspected
to have had any knowledge of the trans
action.
From the dormitory they hastened to
the northern gate, but there neither senti
nel nor any body else was to be seen; but
the rope-ladder, which still hung upon
the wall, put an end at once to all uncer
tainty, and bore the strongest testimony
to Victoria's elopement.
At sight of it most of the godly sister
hood uttered audible ejaculations of dis
pleasure,
IDE WILLENBERG, 197
pleasure, at the same time folding their
arms meekly across their bosoms, and
turning up the whites of their eyes with
the truest devotion and Christian charity,
to pray for Heaven's direst judgment on
the offenders.
Constantia suggested that they had pro
bably been secured, and conveyed for the
night to the prison in the village, and ad
vised that she should immediately write
to the Consistory at Warsaw, to inform
them of the sacrilegious crime, and give
the profligate pair completely into the
hands ofjustice. -
This Stephania had already resolved to
do. With the bitterest hatred against
Victoria, she remembered her indignant
and offensive expressions of disgust at her
treatment of Bertha in the morning.
Stung by the insult, she had, in the ran
cour of her wounded pride, vowed that it
should not long go unpunished; and now
K 3 how
198 DE WILLENBERG.
how ample, and to Victoria how terrible,
was her opportunity!
She waited at the gate until a fresh
guard came, from whom she ascertained
what had happened, and who, being ac
companied by another soldier, she desired
the latter to return in half an hour, to re
ceive a letter, which she meant he should
be the bearer of with all possible speed to
Warsaw, and which she presently after
wards withdrew to write, as well as the
turbulent state of her mind would allow.
In the meantime Constantia, carefully
locking herself in her cell, set about a
similar occupation; but greater, far greater
was its object, infinitely wider was the
plan it embraced, and infinitely more hor
rible was the magnitude of that plan and
its effects.
On the unconscious Stephania was fixed,
as she had told Garcia, her deadliest ha
tred,
DE WILLENBERG. I99
tred, and she, De Willenberg, and Vic
toria, were the subjects of this fatal letter.
How wide a field of vengeance was now
open to the vindictive spirit that burned
within her! The three beings whom her
soul detested, all in her power! ay, bound
fast, and for ever, in the plenitude of her
power, by their solemn and irrevocable
oaths. Never before had vengeance glut
ted upon a thought so truly exquisite;
nor ever had the wicked Constantia's hand
traced characters which, when written,
were so delightful to her eye. Well might
they be called characters of blood, for to
shed human blood was the terrible and
avowed purport of them.
Amongst other accusations against Ste
phania, which, however depraved she
naturally was, were a tissue of false
hoods, was that of her having been not
only aware of Victoria's meditated de
parture, but actually assisted her in it,
and secretly sought an interview with
- K 4 her
200 DE WILLENBERG.
her lover, on his arrival at the convent, in
order to arrange with him the whole plan,
for which she had been liberally paid.
But matter yet more “deep and dan
gerous” than this had the nun for her pen
—a catalogue of crimes of the most atro
cious nature, alleged to have disgraced
the lost Stephania, completed this odious
composition; to which affixing her name,
she desired that she should forthwith be
cited, to give her verbal evidence against
the parties therein accused.
Having read it over with a gratification
her bosom had never experienced before,
she folded, sealed, and directed it to the
holy fathers of the consistorial tribunal.
She had scarcely finished it, when a
message from the superior summoned her
to that lady's apartment. Stephania had
concluded her letter, and handing it to
Constantia, entreated her to take it down
to
DE WILLENBERG. 201
to the northern gate herself, and give it
safely into the messenger's hand—a request
with which she, with a dreadful smile of
hypocrisy and deep meaning, promised
compliance.
- But far was it from Constantia's inten
tion to allow this letter ever to reach other
hands than her own. The moment she
got beyond the cloisters, and found her
self alone, she tore it into atoms, and dis
persed it with the wind; then hastening
onwards, she found the messenger wait
ing, and delivered to him the letter she
had herself written, with the superior's
imperative command, that he should pro- -
ceed with it to Warsaw, without a mo
ment's delay—a command which fatally
he forthwith obeyed; and having seen
him depart, she withdrew to her cell, to
feast her thoughts there for the remainder
of the night on the progress of her plot.
Sleep refused to visit the abandoned
K 5 wretch
202 DE WILLENBERG.
wretch amidst such a load of sin, and the
rising sun found her yet awake, and pon
dering over it on her pillow.
The early matin-bell called her to the
performance of a ceremony she was wholly
unfit for, that of addressing the Deity in
prayer, the All-powerful Being she had so
grossly offended.
Unwillingly, as was always the case, she
repaired to the chapel, where, in confor
mity with her usual custom, and the ob
ligation imposed on her, she fell on her
knees, and mattered out her unintelligible
forms of devotion; while her heart was
far—far from that God whom her lips un
feelingly called upon.
They had not long returned to their
cells, when a violent ringing at the gate
announced a person on some important
business, and impatient of delay.
In
DE WILLENBERG. 203,
In breathless anxiety the abbess waited
to know who it was, and that anxiety
was increased to the highest degree of
alarm, when Garcia came hobbling in, her
eyes gleaming with the terror she felt, to
inform her that three officials from the
Holy Consistory had arrived, with an order
to conduct the lady abbess and sister Con
stantia forthwith into the presence of that
sacred and august assembly.
Even the hardened Stephania was filled
with consternation at this ill-boding man
date. The very idea of offending against
the Consistory had ever been terrible to
her, and any thing she would have deem
ed preferable to entering a place dreaded
alike by all. But she was now specially
summoned, and go she must, whatever
the event might be. She tried to per
suade herself that it was absolutely neces
sary for her to appear there, in order to
substantiate the charge against the delin
K 6 quents.
204 DE WILLENBERG.
quents personally, and to answer circum
stantially many necessary questions; but
the purpose for which Constantia had been
sent for she could not possibly guess.
She knew the latter to be cruel, deceitful,
and wicked as herself, but it never enter
ed her mind that a plot so foul had been
devised against her; and she sent for the
nun, to communicate the affair, and ask
her opinion of it. -
Constantia was fully prepared to meet
her scrutinizing gaze, and she heard the
order read with apparent astonishment
and perturbation. No time however was
allowed them for deliberation; the officials
desired that they would immediately get
themselves ready; and in about half an
hour they entered the carriage that was
to convey them to Warsaw.
During the journey the abbess could
talk or think of nothing else; for, spite of
- her
IDE WILLENBERG. 205.
her reasoning, still she really feared that
such a summons at least portended no
good.
The vehicle was driven with almost the
velocity of the wind, and shortly after
noon they reached the capital, a little.
within the suburbs of which stood the
place of their destination. It was a black
and stupendous mass of building, sur
rounded on all sides by gigantic walls,
whose summits it pained the eye to reach.
The carriage entered a spacious court,
each side of which was lined with the
guards, and different officers of the place,
amongst all of whom reigned the most
profound and fearful silence; and at a
large arched door, studded with iron
knobs; they alighted.
From within this door branched off
several passages, so dark, that their ex
tremities were not distinguishable. A
- Iſlall
206 DE WILLENBERG.
man of uncouth visage descended an op
posite staircase, carrying two lamps, which
emitted a sickly glare, and one of which
he handed to an official. The latter, turn
ing down one of the passages, motioned to
the abbess to follow him—a motion which
she felt very little inclination to obey.
As she advanced, she inquired of him
whether the novice who had eloped from
the convent of St. Agnes, was yet arrived
with her impious confederate?
“No questions, woman, but follow me
in silence!” was the official's surly reply;
and it awed her haughty spirit into in
stant compliance, for to refuse or resist
she at once perceived would be totally
unavailing amongst these ruthless bands,
and might subject her to measures com
pulsory and severe.
“Constantia Zauberflod, advance thou
this way!” cried the official who had
‘. . . . . brought
DE WILLENBERG. 207
brought the lamps, and in so chilling and
forbidding a tone, that she ventured not a
word in answer, but followed him up the
same staircase he had just come down by.
They passed through two long galleries,
one above the other, decorated with gloo
my magnificence. Every thing around
wore the stillness and silence of death;
and the unequal light from a large stained
glass window at one end, mingling with
the deep shadows from the other, threw
such a sepulchral gloom over the whole
place, that Constantia almost fancied her
self in a splendid and extensive mauso
leum.
At the dark extremity of the second
gallery was a flight of steps, leading up to
a door of ebony of the deepest black, over
which was inscribed, in large gold letters
—“To the Hall of Judgment!”
Constantia's
208 DE WILLENBERG.
Constantia's heart beat violently; she
regretted what she had done, and would,
at the moment, have cancelled all; but
little time was allowed her for reflection,
which was now too late. Her conductor
uttering some mysterious words, the door
was thrown open by one of the familiars
within, clad in a long black robe, on each
skirt of which was painted a large red
CrOSS. ,
They were admitted into a dark pas
sage, where only a single lamp was burn
ing, and at the farther end of which a
double door opened into a formidable
looking room, of immense height and ex
tent, where sat, in solemn array, the whole
consistorial body. The apartment was an
oblong, and lined throughout with black
cloth. Not a window or aperture was
there to admit the light of day; but a
large chandelier, which was suspended
from the middle of the ceiling, threw a
stream
T)F WILLENBERG. 209
stream of light a few yards round it, while
all the other parts of the room were al
most lost in darkness. -
-
-: *
Within the space to which its rays ex
tended hung several paintings, of the most
hideous objects imagination could give
birth to. Some represented rows of here
tics before the awful tibunal, stretched on
the rack, and other engines of torture,
and suffering agonies that only hell itself
could equal, while their distorted limbs
seemed crashed and mangled in a manner
too horrible for the spectator to look
upon long. In others appeared bloody and
mutilated corpses, bearing hardly a ves.
tige of any thing human—some fed on
by birds of prey, and some in the last stage
of putridity. One picture, larger than
the others, was a terrific representation of
that barbarous ceremony—the act of faith,
the most conspicuous figures in which
were those of the unhappy condemned,
clad
210 DE WILLENBERG.
clad in their peculiar robes, and walking
in procession and barefooted to the stake,
around which stood groups of unconcern
ed beholders, viewing the expiring agonies
of the wretches amidst the flames, which
men for the purpose were busily supply.
ing with faggots. In the back-scene some
fanatics were seen bearing on their shoul
ders the cross, at sight of which the
bigoted multitude prostrated themselves
to the earth.
These however were not the first ob
jects that struck Constantia's eyes—they
wandered for a moment, but were quick
lyrecalled to the great council-table, which
stood in the centre of the room, just under
the chandelier, and was covered with black
cloth. At the head of it, in a heavy chair
of state, exalted above the others by a few
steps, sat a cardinal, in his full official
robes, and on either side of him three
priests. A range of other spiritual officers,
f : . . . ;
of
D]E WILLENBERG. 2II
of various denominations, were seated
along the sides; and at the bottom was a
secretary, with a huge folio volume before
him, and pens and ink for taking notes.
Before each of the others lay ponderous
books of laws and statutes, pains and
penalties; and opposite the cardinal was
one larger than all the rest, and covering
a considerable portion of the table, in
which were registered the names and . .
offences of such unfortunate beings as had
already fallen victims to the barbarous
laws of this tribunal. -
“Constantia Zauberflod, approach,” said
the cardinal, in a hollow tone. Her mind
had now somewhat accommodated itself to.
this terrific scene, and she obeyed, with a
firm and dignified step, after dropping on.
her knees, and making her obeisance to
the reverend assembly. “Art thou called
Constantia Zauberflod?” asked his emi
Ile11Ce. . . . . . . . . . . .”
“I am, most august and holy father.”.
- 66. Is
-
212 IDE WILLENBERG.
“Is this thy writing?” he continued,
producing her letter.
“It is.”
“Thou art a nun of the order of St.
Agnes?”
“Yes, father, I belong to that most
pious community.”
“Knowest thou Stephania Gesnel, ab
bess of the said monastery 2”
“Full well I know her.”
His words now assumed a deeper and
more awful tone.—“Constantia Zauber
flod,” said he, “thou hast in this thine
handwriting alleged against Stephania,
thine abbess, crimes of a most horrible,
black, and damning nature. Are thine
accusations founded upon truth?”
“On truth unimpeachable as the gos
pel!" undauntedly replied this paragon of
iniquity. -
“As unimpeachable as the gospel!” re
peated one of the priests, eyeing her firmly.
“I have said it,” she answered, with an
indignant scowl.
-- “Dost
IDE WILLENBERG. 213
“ Dost thou know the novice Clara,
and her brother Guzman?” demanded
the cardinal.
Her letter had given them no further
InameS.
“I know them both,” said she.
“And the misguided and abandoned
sinner Clara, despising all the tenets of
our holy Catholic religion, cancelling her
sacred vow, and setting all consequences
at open, impious defiance, did sacrilegious
ly and incestuously elope from the afore
said convent, under cover of the night,
with the profligate and unsanctified youth,
her brother?”
“Even with her brother,” replied Con
stantia. -
“Oh, most foul, most detestable en
ormity tº ejaculated the saintly fathers,
each clasping the crucifix that hung from
his girdle, and raising his eyes to heaven.
“And
214 DE WILLENBERG. *
“And to this daring outrage the lady
abbess was privy?”
“She was—she sanctioned it all!”
“ Yet, unsatisfied with the crime of
sacrilege, they dared to heap that of de
liberate murder on their wretched souls—
they assassinated the guard?”
“Even so.”
“Will you swear, Constantia, to the
truth of all you have now deposed?”
“Yes, on yonder missal I will swear to
it this instant " and she attempted to seize
the book from beside the priest who had
before spoken.
“Woman, be less precipitate!” said he,
waving her contemptuously from him,
and putting the book aside. “Wait re
spectfully until we command you to
Swear.” -
“You aver then,” resumed the cardinal,
“that the said Guzman and Clara have
added to the list of their sins the wilful
murder of the guard, thereby rendering
the
DE WILLENBERG. 215
the abbess's offence tenfold more heinous
and unpardonable? You can swear to
this P”
“I can, righteous father. It is all too
true; and there is another who can testify
the veracity of what I have spoken.”
“Who is that other?”
“The portress Garcia. Ifit please your
eminence to have her summoned hither,
her evidence will be material.” -
- The cardinal now addressed the secre
tary, who had been all the time taking
down her statement—“Note down accu
rately all that deponent hath said, of which
she is willing to make oath; and let this
Garcia forthwith be sent for. Meantime,
Constantia Zauberflod, do thou withdraw
until thy further testimony shall be re
quired.”
She burned with impatience to be cer
tain of the fate of De Willenberg and Vic
toria, who, she hoped, had ere this been ar
raigned,
216 DE WILLENBERG,
raigned, and received their condemnation;
but the sternness of every countenance
before her forbad her to hazard an inter
rogatory; and again bending her knee in
profound veneration, she begged a bless
ing of his eminence, and retired. -
The official who had accompanied her
thither waited without in solemn silence,
to conduct her whithersoever she might
be ordered; and ofthis man, though equal
ly repulsive in his appearance with the
rest, yet, being so far inferior in power,
she stood not quite so much in awe. She
knew he could do no more than refuse to
answer her question, and with as much
suavity as might elicit the wished-for in
formation—“Know you aught, my friend,”
said she, “oftwo prisoners of rank, brought
hither this morning, charged with the
crimes of sacrilege and murder 2”
“ They were immediately tried and
sentenced to death " he gloomily replied.
“ All
IdE WILLENBERG. 217
“All will soon be over with them But
you must remain silent. I cannot an
swer questions.”
This injunction was however now un
necessary; her question had been an
swered too satisfactorily to require any
thing further; and her heart bounding
with exultation, which she had no little
difficulty in concealing, she followed him,
without another word, to the gloomy sub
terranean apartment, where she was to
await the anxiously-wished-for arrival of
Garcia, whom two officials were speedily
sent to fetch thither.
Garcia's conscience, not being quite so
clear as to render her fearless of the con
sistorial power, the sight of those two
men was not more welcome to her than
would have been the emissaries of Lucifer,
whom indeed she almost considered them.
Supposing at first that they came for
some of the nuns, for whose safety she
WOL, III. L began
218 DE WILLENBERG.
began to pray aloud to every saint in the
calendar, she opened the gates with reve
rential awe; but when a hoarse voice ad
dressed her—“Garcia Fuescal, we are
hereby commanded (producing a paper)
to carry you before the most holy and re
verend court of the Consistory,” a loud
and discordant exclamation of terror burst
from her. “ Holy Virgin guard us!
bring me before the Consistory! What
can they want with me, that am as pure
and spotless as the driven snow 2 praise
be to me for it!”
“Keep your questions to yourself, most
pure and spotless lady, and prepare your
immaculate old person to accompany us—
we are not come to listen to any of your
foolery. Quick, quick, I say, or, by St.
Agnes, we will drag you off, body and
soul, just as you are, across this mule!”
This menace stimulated her immedi
ately into action, and did not at all serve
to diminish her fears, which took such
- - entire
IDE WILLENBERG. 219
entire possession of her during the jour
ney, that she totally forgot her late inter
view with Constantia; and it never once
occurred to her that the awful hour was
at hand, when she would be called upon
either to annul or corroborate her fatal
oath—either to retract or to plunge into
a still more frightful depth of crime—
either to save her wicked soul from the
blackest perjury, or sink herself to punish
ments eternal.
But far, very far, from a future state
were the thoughts of the wretched Gar
cia. Though long the bigoted inhabitant
of a convent, there was as little true re
ligion in her heart, as when, in her juve
nile years, she had scoffed and derided the
very ceremonies and absurdities she now
most zealously practised herself. She
thought only of the present circumstances.
On arriving at the tribunal, she recollect
ed but her oath to Constantia, and the
menaces of that dreadful woman; and
L 2 while
• 220 * IDE WILLENBERG.
while she feared not to break her allegi
ance to Heaven, she trembled at the idea
of breaking the faith she had sworn to the
InUl Il.
She could not shake off the fears at
tendant on a guilty mind, as she entered
the judgment-hall. It was a place that
innocence itself might have shuddered at.
No wonder then that the wicked Garcia
felt as she did. Still the bold outward
hardihood of guilt forsook her not—with
an unshrinking hand she received the
missal, to swear on it to the truth of what
she should depose. She was then mi
mutely questioned on every particular
Constantia had mentioned, and on all of
which her answers were clear, prompt,
and decisive. Every thing Stephania was
accused of Garcia solemnly swore to, gain
ing additional firmness and effrontery as
she sunk lower and lower in crime; until
at length, having perjured herself until
perjury could do no more, she heard the
- - mandate
DE WILLENBERG. 221
mandate issued for the ill-fated abbess to
be summoned to her trial.
She had hoped, that having given her
evidence, there would be no occasion for
her further detention in a place so preg
nant with horror, and was fully prepared
to take her departure as speedily as pos
sible; but she had deceived herself, and
was very far from feeling either comfortable
or free from apprehension, when informed
that she must remain there, and in solitary
confinement, until the whole of the trial
was over.
A momentary fear of detection seized
her; but knowing Constantia too well to
believe she would retract, it soon vanish
ed, and she went to her cell with reluc
tance, unmingled with a shadow of com
punction for her own enormities, or the
doom to which she had consigned Ste
phania.
L 3 . It
222 DE WILLENBERG.
It was one of the known laws of the
Consistory, though so incompatible with
justice, that the accused, of whatever
rank, should never be confronted with
their accusers, nor told, directly or indi
rectly, who they were. If full confessions
were not voluntarily made by the unfor
tunate culprits, they were extorted from
them by all the tortures of the rack, which
often forced them to avow themselves
guilty of crimes they had never thought
of, much less committed, so utterly in
tolerable were the agonies it inflicted.
Almost bursting with resentment at
the indignity of having been incarcerated
in a dungeon for so many hours, the ab
bess heard her conductor deliver the order
from the council for her appearance, with
out condescending to reply. She fearless
ly traversed the staircase and galleries;
nothing like suspicion for an instant dis
turbed her mind, and on entering the room
where sat her stern judges, her dark and
- y piercing
BE WILLENBERG. 223
piercing eye surveyed every object with
almost perfect indifference. A formal
bow was her only recognition of their dig
nity. Offended pride gave to her features
more than their usual severity, and her
proud unbending carriage looked more
haughty than it had ever been before.
“Take your station yonder,” said the
cardinal, pointing to a high chair, “ and
answer all our interrogatories in an audible
voice.—What is your name?”
“Stephania, baroness Gesnel,” she re
plied, in an imperious tone.
“Stephania, baroness Gesnel, know
you for what purpose we have command
ed you into our presence?”
“Commanded me!” repeated she, with a
look of ineffable scorn. “It is at my own
desire. I am come here to deliver to
your authority two sacrilegious criminals,
and to demand that justice shall be
done.” *
L 4 * You
224 DE WILLENBERG.
“You are yourself a criminal, unhappy
woman!" said the cardinal, impressively.
“Whom do you take me for? I am
the lady abbess of St. Agnes,” returned
Stephania, with increasing hauteur.
“You are not: that is a rank you are
no longer worthy to fill.”
“What means your eminence? Who
has presumed to—”
“Hold, baroness you are presuming,
in talking thus noisily and unbidden. I
command your silence, until it is necessary
for you to speak. Answer our questions,
and say no more.” -
Obedience in this respect cost Stepha
nia a violent exertion of her capability to
dissemble. Harrowing suspicions of Con
stantia's treachery rushed upon her brain,
with which it felt as if burning; but she
forced herself to be silent, even while her
blood was boiling with rage.
“ HoW
DE WILLENBERG. 225
º
“How long have you been in the con
vent of St. Agnes?” asked one of the
priests.
“ I do not know; I have not calcu
lated,” replied Stephania, eyeing him con
temptuously.
“But I insist on knowing !” pursued
the priest.
“Five years then, if you must know,”
said the stubborn abbess, still fearless of
their power.
“Insolent woman' we must and will
be answered P’ cried the cardinal, with a
severe frown. “We have the power to:
curb your audacity, and teach you to re
spect us; therefore, I say, no more of this,
or you shall feel it.”
“Stephania Gesnel,” resumed the priest,
“do you remember 32 .
“I have said, I am the baroness Ges
mel,” she interrupted, determined to take
the utmost latitude of annoying them that
she possibly could, without committing
herself.
I, 5. “Well,
226 IDE WILLENBERG.
“Well, Stephania, baroness Gesnel, do
you remember, during those five years,
any thing very remarkable having hap
pened there?”
“I do not.”
“I allude particularly to the birth of a
child in the convent. Do you remember
that? You are now on your oath—so to
the truth !”
The abbess turned a deadly pale, and
trembled from head to foot, for too well
she did remember this. It was plain to her
that, through some mysterious channel,
they had got intelligence of her counte
nancing the infant's birth; and what had
she not to fear from their knowledge of a
transaction so disgraceful to her sacred
office? Surely her degradation and ruin
would follow.—“This then,” thought she,
“was the cause of their summoning Con
stantia, its unfortunate guilty mother, who,
ere now, may have in their torments ex
piated her crime.”
Seeing
IDE WILLENBERG. 227
Seeing her hesitate, and change colour,
the priest repeated his interrogatory—
“Do you remember that circumstance?”
“I do, most holy father,” she faltered
out, her tone somewhat relaxing from its
loftiness.
“ Note that down, secretary. Who
was the father of that child, baroness?”
“I cannot tell.” -
“ Oh, most abominable !” cried the
priest. “So dissolute hath she been, that
the father of her offspring cannot be spe
cified. Secretary, write that in large let
ters.”
Still thinking they meant Constantia,
she made no observation.
“At what time of the day or night,”
inquired the cardinal, “did the birth of
that child take place?”
“About midnight, if I recollect aright.”
“And at that awful hour of midnight,
you, baroness Gesnel, did deliver the said
L 6 child.
228 DE WILLENBERG,
child to a certain woman, named Garcia
Fuescal, desiring her to dig a grave, and
commit it to the earth, in the garden of
the monastery.”
This had Stephania done; and unable
to offer a denial, which she knew would
be unavailing, she hung her head silent
and abashed.
“ Unnatural monster was not your
child still living when you gave this odi
ous commission?” -
“My child " screamed Stephania, al
most falling from her seat, and at once
comprehending all their ambiguous words
—“my child! merciful Heaven! who dares
to say so?”
“I dare to say it, wretched wanton "
replied the cardinal. “Your child—the
fruit of your infamy and lust.”
Her passion was now too violent for fur
ther control; rage and indignation in
flamed her blood, and the crimson tide
flushed
DE WILLENBERG, 229.
flushed her terrible countenance—“It is.
false! by my soul, it is false !” cried she, as,
spurning all form, she rushed from her seat,
and seized the arm of the secretary, who
was writing down that part of the accusa
tion. “Desist!” said she, half-frantic, “ or
at your periſ write this damning lie!”
“Vile woman, stand off!” said the car
dinal; “do you also disown your child?”
“I tell you again, it is false" roared the
abbess, stamping violently on the floor,
and hurried far beyond moderation. “Ye
are all false, and dearly shall ye repent this
villainous conspiracy.” -
“You shall instantly repent your bare
faced audacity;” and saying this, the car
dinal rang a small bell that stood beside
him, at the sound of which four men issued
from a side-door.
Their persons were completely conceal
ed by long black robes, and their faces by
masks of the same colour; and as they
stood for a moment to receive their orders,
Stephania
230 DE WILLENBERG,
Stephania almost fancied them agents of
the infernal power, obedient to the will of a
set of beings she deemed in league with it.
“Officials, to your duty " said the car.
dinal; “drag your victim to the rack!”
One of the men now drawing up a black
baize curtain at the end of the room,
disclosed a sight truly terrifying—racks,
and various other instruments of inquisi
torial punishment. The three others laid
hold of her to bear her to the torture. A
loud and piteous shriek burst from the un
happy woman.—“Fiends ! unhand me!
What is it ye would do?”
“Punish your temerity, and compel you
to confess,” answered a priest.
“Confess what?”
“The murder of your infant.”
“It was not mine, I repeat—by all that
is sacred, it was not!”
“This deserves no credit; yet if not,
say whose was it?' this instant name the
mother.” -
The
DE WILLENBERG, 23.1
The name of Constantia had nearly es
caped her quivering lips, but she recol
lected her oath in time to save her from
the sin of perjury, which, bad as she was,
her soul shrunk from.—“Again Irepeat, it
was not my child.”
“It is not enough, baroness; we must
know the mother. Who is she 2"
“I cannot—I must not name her.”
“You cannot " reiterated the priest,
with a smile of malignity.
“I will not t now you are answered,”
said she, vehemently, and thrown off her.
guard by their urging her to what she was
– firmly resolved against. -
“She is herself the mother. But we
will hear no more of this daring prevari
cation. To the question with her in
stantly' we will bend her perverse and
'stubborn spirit to a full confession.”
In vain she screamed, implored, resisted.
She was borne, almost senseless, to the
- rack,
232 DE WILLENBERG.
rack, and fastened to it by iron chains:
round her arms, legs, and waist.
The engine on which she was stretched
was composed of two parts, separable by
means of strong ropes and pulleys attached
to each, and in the gradual or forcibly
sudden separation of those, consisted the
degrees of torture it was capable of in
flicting.
The four officials now, by order of the
cardinal, took the ropes in their muscular
hands; and retreating as far as the length
of them would permit, they awaited the
signal, which having received, they pulled
them with Herculean strength, and with
the suddenness and velocity of lightning.
A shriek from Stephania, such as mor
tal had never uttered before, proclaimed its
worse than deathlike agonies, as it echoed
throughout the building. The horrid
- shock.
DE WILLENBERG. 233
shock recalled her senses for a moment,
and a blessing she thought it would have
been, had they fled for ever. All her
limbs seemed dislocated, crashed, and all
her sinews rent asunder. To speak was
an exertion to which her little remaining
strength was quite inadequate, and mur
muring forth a low sound, like an expir
ing groan, nature was wholly overpower
ed, and she fainted.
Not a syllable, not a breath, indicated
the softening of their flinty hearts. Never
had that ornament of human nature, com
passion, found a place in the bosoms of
those merciless wretches; they triumphed
in her sufferings; and whilst she was thus
insensible, they only relaxed the extreme
tension to which they had stretched her
limbs, from the apprehension that death
would, in pity, snatch their victim from
them.
After a long suspension of her faculties,
- - - she
234. DE WILLENBERG.
she opened her eyes; they were dim and
lustreless, and she writhed with pain.
The savage officials were about to pull
the ropes again, when the cardinal de
manded—“Hardened sinner, wilt thou
now confess?”
“What am I to confess?” she languidly
asked.
“That you murdered your child the
moment it visited the light.”
“The infant was still-born ; and as I
hope for Heaven, it was not mine.”
“Hush profane, lost woman call not
so sacred a witness to thine obstimacy and
perjury. Officials, go on 1 let her tor
ments be slow—slow and horrid; they
will so change her, that none of human
kind who shall behold her corpse, will own
her for their species!”
Instantaneously the diabolical order was
obeyed; a second time her every limb and
nerve was strained to the very verge of
death,
DE WILLENBERG. 235
death, which she inwardly supplicated for.
The most hideous contortions disfigured
her face.
“Will you confess?” again demanded
the cardinal.
“I have nothing to confess; I am in
nocent of the charge.”
“Tighter, tighter, officials with one
pull tear every bone from its socket! Go
on, go on strain her eyeballs until they
fly out of her head!”
“In mercy stab me to the heart first!
Have ye not a dagger?”
At this moment ten thousand daggers
would have been welcome to her; the rack
seemed to outdo all its former tortures.
“Will you confess?” repeated the
priest.
“I will—I will!” she screamed, totally
unable to endure for an instant longer
their barbarous cruelties. “Take me but
from
236 DE wit.I.ENBERG.
from hence, or kill me with a blow, and
ere I die I will confess all !”
“Let go the ropes, and suspend the tor
ture for the present,” said the cardinal to
the officials.
“Oh, unbind me! for mercy's sake un
bind me!” implored the abbess.
“No, no; you quit not your present
posture until we have extorted the whole
truth, a single deviation from which
plunges you into pangs a million times
more excruciating than any you have yet
felt. You acknowledge the child in ques
tion was yours.” -
“I do—I do " she replied; and as she
thus was compelled to convict herself, a
shower of tears fell from her. Her judges
fancied them tears of contrition, but they
remained unmoved.
“And that you strangled it, to hide
your disgrace?”
“Yes! Now, now unbind me, I be
seech you!” and again she screamed with
agony.
“Stay
DE WILLENBERG. 237
“Stay this turbulent impatience. I re
peat, you stir not thence until it is our
pleasure that you do—we still have much
and important matter in reserve. Did not
a brother of one of the novices of St. Ag.
nes visit the convent yesterday ?”
-gg Yes.”
“Had you not an interview with him,
when nobody else was present?”
“I confess it, reverend father, but it was
for the purpose » -
“Silence " interrupted the cardinal;
“do you so soon forget yourself again?
We know the purpose of it. It was for
the vile Not a word—it was, I say, for
the vile and scandalous purpose of receiv
ing a bribe, to aid his abandoned sister to
elope with him. Speak to the fact.”
“Oh, Heaven, take pity on me!” she
feebly articulated.
“Answer me,” said the cardinal.
That this was the work of treachery, of
the most determined, the most deep-laid
and atrocious villainy, was now too obvi
OllS
238 DE WILLENBERG.
ous to the horrorized Stephania to be
doubted, and that the author of it was the
terrible Constantia; for none—noneelsehad
she cause to suspect Hitherto suspicion
had slept, but it awoke now with one ef.
fort, and struck upon her heart and soul
with paralysing coldness. She had long
known the baseness of Constantia's dispo
sition; but bad as she was—bad as she her
self was, she had never suspected such a
climax of wickedness in mortal. That this
depraved woman hated her she well knew,
but why she should have proceeded to
such a frightful extremity to accomplish her
destruction, was inexplicable to her. Yet,
however inexplicable, however horrible,
the deed was done. She was hurled into
an abyss of ruin, and her doom, her ap
palling doom, was certain. Suspicion
glanced at no other, else might she still
have saved herself; then one chance of
life had yet remained; but all—all in her
mind was hopeless and dark despair, and
she had nothing left but to submit to her
fate. True, she might, by a word, possi
bly
DE WILLENBERG. 239
bly avert that fate; Constantia's name,
once uttered, would, like a potent spell,
dissolve the whole mystery; but that fell
enchantress had drawn a circle round her,
beyond whose frightful verge she durst
not step. Her oath, her fatal oath, bound
her as firmly in the power of the nun, as
the blackest charms of sorcery could have
done, and perjury was an acme of crime her
soul did not for a moment contemplate.
“I will be answered" furiously vo
ciferated the cardinal. “Were you not
bribed, and did you not, unknown to the
sisterhood, contrive her escape? Deny it
at your peril!”
It was indeed at her peril to deny it, for
the officials were ready at a word to re
sume the work their souls delighted in,
and “tear,” as they had been commanded,
“ her bones from their sockets.” The ut
most strength of human nature would
have sunk under a repetition of such bar
barities.
240 DE WILLENBERG.
barities. Stephania had seldom possessed
much real firmness under sufferings, but
it now completely forsook her, and the de
luded woman sealed the fiat of her doom,
in avowing herself guilty of all she was
charged with, and the principal crime, one
of the most atrocious that it came within
their province to punish.
Nearly an hour had she been extend
ed on the rack, and death appeared
coming with rapid strides to terminate her
misery; but now that they had forced
from her her own conviction, they removed
the chains, and placed her on a seat, where
they were obliged to support her exhaust
ed frame. She would have thrown herself
on her knees, to thank Heaven that she
had been taken from the rack; but the ex
ertion was too much for her, and she fell
back almost insensible.
“Thou shalt have time for prayer, un
fortunate,” said the cardinal; “six hours
yet
DE WILLENBERG. 241
yet are left you, ere you enter on a future
state; for which, in the interval, God grant
you may prepare! Attend now with be
fitting solemnity, while I remind you of
your awful situation, for longer than I have
said, you have not to live. You are, by
your own confession, a disgrace to the sta
tion you filled, to your sex, and to the
whole human race. Hear me, baroness,
your licentious and unbridled passions first
triumphed over your reason, and led you
into a guilty intercourse with man; the
fruit of your infamy you assassinated,
hoping thereby to escape condign punish
ment. True, you did for a while escape
it, but murder cannot long be hidden.
The powerful hand of Providence hath at
length drawn aside the veil that screened
you; still, still after that, repentance was
far from you—you plunged headlong into
a vortex of iniquity, and dragged with
you, into the hideous gulf, two others,
who had elsebeen innocent, crowning your
guilt by leading them on to sacrilege and
VOL. III. M murder.
242 DE WILLENBERG.
murder. Oh, most miserable woman! the
blood of all these be on your head—your
doom is unalterable, but it is just. Hear
now the sentence our laws compel me to
pronounce upon you. You are to be re
conducted to your cell, there to pass the
intermediate time in prayer and penance;
from thence you are to walk barefooted to
the scaffold, where the executioner will be
in readiness to sever your head from your
body, and may Heaven have mercy on
your poor soul! Little more remains for
me to say. The novice Clara, and the un
principled partner of her flight, have al
ready been tried and condemned; their
death-warrant is made out, and I have
only now to send it, with yours, to be
signed by his majesty the king. At
twelve to-night ye die!” -
More than this Stephania could not hear;
nature seemed to have rallied all her pow
ers to hear the sentence out. The last
words of her judgesmote her like the iron
hand
DE WILLENBERG. 243
hand of death; with a fiantic scream she
fell from her chair, devoid of sense and mo
tion, and in that state she was borne to
her cell. -
END OF VOL. III.
J. Darling Printer, Leadenhall-Street, London.
wº-ºº-mas-ºs
-- ~.
NEW PUBLICATIONs
PRINTED FOR
s/M. K. JWJE//JM.A.W. & CO.
AT THE
~/newa-Zºe,
LEADENHALL-STREET, LONDON.
-
Baron of Falconberg, or Childe Harolde in Prose, by
Bridget Bluemantle, 3 vols.......................
Dangerous Secrets, a Scottish Tale, 2 vols. ..........
Theresa, or the Wizard's Fate, 4 vols. ..............
Celebrity, by Mrs. Pilkington, 3 vols. ..............
BorderChieftains, by Miss Houghton, 2d edition, 3 vols.
Barozzi, or the Venetian Sorceress, a Romance, by Mrs.
Smith, Author of the Caledonian Bandit, &c. 2 vols.
Duncan and Peggy, a Scottish Tale, by Mrs. Helme,
new edition, 3 vols. . . . . . . e - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Discontented Man, by A. F. Holstein, 3 vols...........
Waga, or a View of Nature, by Mrs. Peck, 2d edition,
3 vols. . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lady Jane's Pocket, by the Author of Silvanella, 4 vols.
The Bristol Heiress, by Mrs. Sleath, Author of the
Orphan of the Rhine, &c. 5 vols................
Family Estate, or Lost and Won, by Mrs. Ross, Author
of Modern Calypso, &c. &c. 3 vols. ..............
Donald Monteith, the Handsomest Man of the Age, by
Selina Davenport, Author of the Sons of the Wiscount
and the Daughters of the Earl, and the Hypocrite,
5 vols. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Romantic Facts, or Which is his Wife? 4 vols. . . . . . .
Emmeline, or the Orphan of the Castle, by Charlotte
'Smith, new edition, 4 vols.......................
1
—
£
i0
0
1.
–––
DE WILLENBERG;
oR,
THE TALISMAN.
A TA LE OF MYSTER Y.
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
-
BY I. M. H. HALES, ESQ.
AUTHOR OF THE ASTROLOGER.
Such is the weakness of all mortal hope,
So fickle is the state of earthly things,
That ere they come into their aimed scope,
They fall so short of our frail reckonings,
And bring us bale and bitter sorrowings,
Instead of comfort, which we should embrace—
This is the state of Caesars and of Kings.
Let none, therefore, that is in meaner place,
Too greatly grieve at any his unlucky case. SPENSER.
WOL. IV.
->><><–
L ON DO N :
PRINTED For -
A. K. NEW MAN AND CO. L. EA DE N H A LI.-STR F ET',
I821.
•
→
→
.
•
***
***
*£7
,
º
aer
lº
DE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER I.
------
Abash'd the tempter stood,
And felt how awful goodness is, and saw
Virtue in her shape how lovely" MILTON.
FROM the moment of their quitting
the prison until they reached Warsaw,
Theodore and Victoria had very little time
to indulge reflections, but those that did
obtrude were of the most gloomy and
dispiriting nature, and our heroine wept
afresh at the chilling prospect before her.
Immediately after their arrival they were
ordered to their trial, and led by an official
to the hall of judgment: in every objcet
VOL. IV. B that
2 DE WILLENBERG.
that met their view they read their sen
tence, and the countenances of their
judges, as they entered, confirmed it.
On rejoining Theodore, Victoria strove
to rally back her fortitude, in order to in
spire him with such to bear him through
the awful ceremony, for almost every de
gree of it seemed to fail him; and she
well knew that it was seeing her brought
to such a place, and for such a purpose,
that thus unmanned him. He was attired
in deep mourning for his late father, and
Victoria partly in the white dress she had
worn at the altar of St. Agnes on the pre
ceding day; and though sorrow and fret
ting had stolen the roses from their cheeks,
yet in that sorrow there was a something
that interested the heart in their favour,
even more than the full bloom of health
and happiness had done. In the rear came
Conrad, his heart almost bursting with
anguish as he looked round on every thing
portentous of their fate. .
- “Prisoners,
DE WILLENBERG. 3.
“Prisoners, what are your names, ranks,
and places of abode?” was the first ques
tion put to them.
These they were predetermined not to
reveal.—“Your eminence,” said Theodore,
“is already in possession of our names—
our ranks it is but mockery to demand,
and avails us nought that you should know.
You say we are amenable to your laws; if
justice deals out those laws, rank should
not bias you—to justice the meanest and
the highest of his majesty's subjects have
an equal claim, and woe to the state where
it is otherwise !—This is, alas! our present
abode—it matters not whether the palace
or the cottage was our former one.”
“Beware of such temerity, young man;
we can put strong reins here on a haughty
spirit,” was the cardinal's only observation
to him.
De Willenberg had now summoned all -
his fortitude, to go through a scene where
so much was required; he knew he could
B 2 not
4. DE willENBERG.
not refute the charges against him, and
any equivocation, or attempt to do so,
would instantly subject them all to the
torture: but the magnitude of their dan
ger seemed to nerve him with greater
firmness, and there was something so dig
nified and determined in his manner, that
admiration appeared to take place of seve
rity in most of the assembly.
As they were not supposed to be much
acquainted with the abbess, and any know
ledge of her former actions being irrelevant
to the matter in question, the next inter
rogatory was, by whom had they been as
sisted in their escape from the monastery 2
It was impossible that De Willenberg
could for an instant surmise that Stephania
was implicated in this business, nor (alrea
dy informed) did the others think his reply
necessary to convince them. Constantia
had done her worst; he despised her—he
.t
l,
abhorred and shuddered at the recollection
- of
º
IDE WILLENBERG. 5
of her horrible treachery and revenge; but
now, in the midst of the worst dangers she
could possibly menace him with, he no
longer feared her—the fear of a higher
Power was predominant in his bosom—a
Power, compared to which all that is earth
ly sinks into insignificance; he feared not
Constantia, neither did he now feel a wish
to screen her from punishment; but, even
at the moment when his eye turned with
horror from the appalling rack on which
he might possibly be stretched and tor
tured, still what were its worst tortures,
compared to the violation of an oath such .
as his, so solemnly pledged?—the former
could but affect the body—the latter was
a crime against the soul. On the cross,
the semblance of that on which his Savi
our had suffered, he had unequivocally
sworn that no circumstances which chance
or design might ever throw him in the
way of, should compel him to betray the
nun; well did he remember the fatal words
she had extorted from him—that oath was
B 3 sacred
-
6 DE WILLENBERG.
sacred and irrevocable; his resolution was
not to be shaken, and he knew that Vic
toria would spurn life itself, if bought at
the price of perjury and dishonour. His
reply was firm and decisive.—“Cardinal,”
said he, “that we have done that for
which we were brought hither, admits of
no contradiction; that we received assist
ance from another—that, in our flight, we
were opposed—may more, that the one
who ventured to oppose us fell by my
hand, is equally undeniable: with all this
you are already acquainted; for the centi
nel, he rushed upon his own death; of the
one whose proffered aid we fatally accept
ed, I must withhold the name—I dare not
reveal it.” - -
“Dare you refuse to do so?” asked the
cardinal, sternly.
“Yes, father, I do refuse—an oath most
solemn seals my lips on the subject for
ever; nay, your eminence must hear me
further,” continued he, seeing the cardi
nal's features grow darker and darker with
anger,
DE WILLENBERG. 7
anger, “for ye are bound to hear the truth,
let it come to your ears in whatever shape
it may. Ye here profess yourselves the
ministers and teachers of the gospel; ye
visit with unexampled rigour every of.
fence against the tenets of that gospel:
to fit you for the holy office, religion, free
from all dangerous bigotry and sophistry,
must dwell in your hearts. Ask your
heart, cardinal, if religion is its inmate,
would it not shudder to hear me break an
oath made upon the cross—one of the
most enormous sins that man can commit
—that oath voluntarily and deliberately
pledged? would it not shudder, I repeat?
If not, then is your office but a sinecure,
made up of superstition, hypocrisy, false
hood, and cruelty—and religion but a
mask to veil it.” -
“Rash stripling, beware!” muttered the
cardinal, and Victoria trembled with ap
prehension of the consequences of his un
guarded warmth.
“What! does he presume to preach to
B 4 us 2°
8 DE WILLENBERG.
ws 2" exclaimed one of the priests, his little
red face deepening with passion into a
perfect crimson—“Away with him in
stantly to the rack;" and he tried to grasp
the bell, in order to summon the officials.
“Softly, brother,” interposed the cardi
nak–" we must not be precipitate; he
hath but spoken the truth, which is ever
welcome to our ears and our hearts, and
meant not to offend against our dignity;
besides, knowing already this name, we
need not urge him to pronounce it.”
Whenever Theodore was led to reason
or moralize with another, he generally
spoke, not alone to the ear, but to the
heart, and he had done so now; to the
cardinal's heart (for he had one) his words
had brought conviction, and he internally
felt the full force of them, though he
wished not to acknowledge that he did so.
—“Unhappy youth" resumed he, “mis
take not my lenity, for ye have nought
but death to hope for. We know whose
aid
DE WILLENBERG. 9
aid ye had, therefore the name is now of
little moment; the sacrilegious deed is
done for which ye have been brought be
fore us: but that is not all; you have not
only to answer for the crime of stealing a
movice from her convent—of the one you
thus trepanned you were the professed
lover, and, shocking to say, her brother;
as if your guilt or your ruin yet was in
complete, you determined to make it sure,
by steeping your hands in blood, in hu
man blood—by plunging yourself into,
the hideous gulf of sin, until you had
sunk to the bottom, never more to rise,
Young man! young man! these are crimes
of frightful magnitude, and neither from
justice nor religion must either of you.
expect mercy.”
Here he paused a while—a fearful pause
it was to our captives, for the next mo
ment might reveal their fate; and, oh
dreadful confirmation of their worst fears 1
the cardinal, in a tone of deep solemnity,
- B 5. bade
10 DE willeNBERG.
bade them prepare to die that night. For
the first time this obdurate man now seem
ed moved to pity, for, as he slowly pro
nounced the awful sentence, his eye rested
on Victoria, whose lovely features rivetted
his attention. She spoke not, she wept
not, but her head drooped, and the beau
tiful innocence of her countenance spoke
irresistibly for her—she looked like a suf.
fering angel, all heavenly purity and meek
ness; and he passed a handkerchief across
his eyes, to wipe away a tear that, spite of
him, glistened there, while his tongue con
demned to such a doom a being in appear
ance so fascinating, so perfect—even in
her confessed guilt she seemed to him the
loveliest work of nature. Soon, however,
he withdrew his regards from her, for he
was in reality too proud, and too tenacious
of the austere dignity of his high office, to
wish she should observe him thus affected;
he even deemed the transient feeling of
compassion a weakness unworthy of him,
and, as if ashamed of it, the instant he
- took
DE WILLENIBERG. II
took his eyes off her, he desired the secre
tary, in a firm voice, to write out the
death-warrant in proper form, which the
latter instantly set about.
De Willenberg's eyes had not ventured
to encounter Victoria's during the trial;
he heard his own condemnation with a
degree of firmness and composure almost
supernatural, but when her assumed name
was pronounced, when she was included
in the fatal mandate, then indeed every
thing like firmness and composure fled
from him—he rushed towards her, and
clasped her to his bosom, while the tears
he had so long violently laboured to re
press flowed from him uncontrolled. Vic
toria now sobbed audibly—neither could
utter a word, and they felt that but for
their tears their overcharged hearts must
have burst with agony.
One of the priests, more cruel and har
dened than the others, not choosing to
B 6. have
12 DE WILLENBERG.
have it perceived that he possessed no
feeling, rang for the attendant official, and
desired him to reconduct them to their
cells. Still absorbed in their grief, they
saw him not until he came close, and at
tempted to separate them; De Willenberg
seemed chilled with horror at his touch,
and started, as from contagion.—“Avaunt,
wretch!” cried he, furiously pushing him
from him, while his eyes sparkled with
rage at the sight of him; in an instant
they softened into their natural expression,
for before him stood Conrad, patiently ex
pecting to hear himself condemned to a
similar fate.—“ Must you too die, my
faithful fellow P” exclaimed Theodore—
“ no, no.” With a frantic wildness he
addressed the council—“Cardinal, I con
jure you, shed not this man's blood; if he
dies, ye will all have the sin of murder on
your heads, for he is innocent of our of:
fence—Heaven can witness that he is.”
“We have yet to ascertain that,” ob
served the little red-faced dignitary, whom
, De
IOF WILLENBERG. 13
De Willenberg's arguments had so highly
offended; “your asserting that he is in
nocent does not prove him so; he must
remain here and take his trial. Official,
shew these other two prisoners to their
respective cells immediately.” -
“Oh, Heavens ! must we part so?”
cried Theodore, again snatching Victoria
to his breast; “will ye not in pity grant
us, that the few short hours we have to
live we may expend together?”
“No,” roared the same priest, vehe
mently—“we cannot allow it.”
“ Recollect, father Manuel,” said the
cardinal, with haughty coldness—“recol
lect that I am the head of this court, not
you.-Official, I command that the pri
soners be thus indulged.” *
It was an indulgence which would not
have been granted, had not the cardinal's
pride been so roused, that, in malicious
and open opposition to poor father Ma
nuel, he determined to shew his superior
authority;
14 DE WILLENBERG.
authority; De Willenberg was aware of
this, but did not hazard an observation,
and bowing in silence to the decree of
their inflexible judges, he and Victoria
withdrew. -
Never having known or heard of Con
rad, Constantia had, of course, mentioned
nothing of him in her letter; and the only
charge against him now was, his having
been found beside the convent gate along
with his master. It had already been
clearly proved that De Willenberg alone
had attacked the centinel, and though the
affectionate servant, to save him, would
unhesitatingly have submitted to the ac
cusation and the penalty, it was evident
that to eriminate himself, so far from rem
dering his master any service, would de
cidedly frustrate the project he still had
in view to save his life. After a long and
minute investigation, his innocence being
clearly and satisfactorily proved, they could
not do otherwise than acquit him, nor,
with
IDE WILLENBERG. 15
with all their unpitying cruelty, could
they help expressing their admiration of
his attachment and fidelity to his master.
On being liberated, he threw himself
on his knees, fully trusting that the same
Omnipotence who had willed his deliver
ance from that dreadful place, from whose
punishments few ever escaped, would aid
his laudable exertions to preserve De Wil
lenberg. He deemed it better not to see
him at present, nor communicate what he
was about to do, which might be only
raising a hope that would be crushed ere
long, and bring the hour of separation and
death with tenfold agonies.
Our passions, our feelings, our senti
ments, or, in short, any thing, having
reached their height, their further progress
must necessarily be to decline: such was
the case with Theodore and Victoria,
whose anguish, in its excess, had worn it
self out, but was succeeded by that sickly
lassitude
16 DE WILLENIBERG.
lassitude and depression that extreme grief
almost always leaves behind. From this
state, however, a sense of their approach
ing fate, and the necessity of properly pre
paring for it, soon recalled them: for this
De Willenberg would have been better
fitted, had his painful suspense relative to
Conrad been at an end; but it now be
came almost intolerable, for those who had
access to him either could not or would
not give him any intelligence of him what
ever; and he was at length compelled to
believe that the faithful fellow had fallen
a sacrifice to cruelty and injustice.
It was with much difficulty he could
command his fortitude, at seeing the ami
able, the gentle Victoria, wrapped in meek
and religious submission, with all an an
gel's loveliness and piety, awaiting her
deathblow—without a murmur, without
a reproach, by word or look, awaiting that
death which her love for him alone had
brought her to. She had been for some
time.
DE WILLENBER(.. 17
time praying devoutly in a recess at one
end of the cell; as she arose, a beautiful
and seraphic smile of perfect resignation
played over her countenance—there was a
heavenly expression in her eyes, as if futu
rity itself had been revealed to her; never
had she looked so truly lovely as at this
moment. During her aspirations, De Wil
lenberg had been absorbed in thought;
and as she stood thus before him, he gazed
on her for a few minutes with unspeakable
admiration.—“And was such a one as this
to be cut off by untimely and ignominious
death 2 was such a one as this to die on a
scaffold, by the hand of a public execu
tioner? Forbid it, Heaven forbid it, hu
man nature!” suddenly exclaimed De
Willenberg—“it shall never be.”
He started from his seat—a sort of wild
and maddening joy was diffused over his
features, unintelligible to Victoria—some
sudden idea had flashed upon his mind—
he
18 DE WILLENBERG.
he looked as ifit was a divine inspiration.—
“Oh, blessed, blessed thought !” cried he,
with energy and enthusiasm—“it comes
upon my soul like a voice from heaven,
giving me life, hope, and joy. Oh day—oh
deed, never, never more to be forgotten —
Yes, my Victoria, I will yet preserve you
—you shall live—we shall both live; I will
myself write to the king; Augustus is
every thing that becomes a king—he is
just and merciful, and he will pardon us.”
Victoria's face had partaken of his ani
mation for an instant—the hope of life
had warmed her bosom until she heard
his last words, and then, even more quick
ly than it came, it vanished.—“Write to
the king!” she repeated—“alas, Theodore,
it will be totally unavailing: if that is our
only chance, then all is over with us—it is
like the effort of a drowning wretch grasp
ing a straw for safety—the king would
heed it not.”
“By my soul but he shall—he must
- heed
DE WILLENBERG. 19
heed it. I will this very instant call for
paper and ink, and write to him, let the
result be what it may.”
This he was hastening to do, when one
of the officials, a man of conciliating ap
pearance, and in whose bosom humanity
was not yet extinct, entered, to inform
them that his majesty had read and signed
their death-warrants. It was what Victo
ria had expected, and she heard it with
perfect calmness, while De Willenberg
seemed to smile defiance to it.
In direct opposition to the will of the
little priest, the cardinal had ordered this
official to shew the prisoners every atten
tion they required, until their last awful
hour—an order to which he paid the most
scrupulous obedience. Nature had appa
rently not intended him for his present
office, but he was like many other indivi
duals, who are often, by circumstances,
forced into situations in life, high and low,
- which
20 DE WILLENBERG.
which they are either too good or too bad
to fill suitably. He felt, and he expressed
commiseration that so young a couple
should be doomed to a disgraceful death;
but the king had decreed it, and he as
sured them that from the royal word there
was no appeal.
Without making any comment on his
intelligence, De Willenberg merely re
quested to be conducted back to his own
cell for a while, which was in a different
part of the building, and that the official
would attend him there, on some business
of importance. -
When he was gone, our heroine sat in
patient silence, without a hope, and almost
without a wish to live; her only real re
gret now was, that in her last moments
she should not receive the blessing of her
beloved father, and this indeed brought to
her heart one of its bitterest pangs.
She
DE WILLENBERG. 21
-
She had not been many minutes left
alone, when an attendant came in, and an
nounced the arrival of a stranger of high
rank, as his appearance denoted him to be,
who demanded to see her—a privilege
which, consistent with the orders, would
not be refused. She had scarcely breath
to desire that he might be admitted—her
respiration was hurried, and she trembled
with the agitation of mingled hope and
fear: this stranger, as they termed him,
might be her father; and how could she
support an interview with him?
While thus she sat in fearful expecta
tion and suspense, the door was again
slowly opened, and a tall, dignified figure
approached her: it was not her father, but
Leopold, duke of Silesia.
Surprise for a few moments prevented
her from speaking; she knew not how she
ought to receive him, or whether she had
cause to regret or to be glad that it was
InOt
$22 DE WILLENBERG.
mother father; but, in truth, such a visitor
was unwelcome to her, and she could not
wholly prevent her countenance from be
traying her displeasure. He was, however,
too much the courtier to notice this, and
respectfully leading her back to her seat,
he took one himself almost close beside
her.
To a mind of sensibility and refinement,
few things are more truly disgusting than
(however well meant they may be) the
commonplace cant and jargon by which
the vulgarly-goodnatured part of the com
munity express their sorrow and their
sympathy at the sufferings of another—
frequently without any real sentiment of
the sort; nor indeed can we more effectu
ally humble the victim of imprudence or
misfortune, than by an ostentatious display
of pity for his unhappy situation, or an
unfeeling allusion to the circumstances
that brought him to it. -
- Leopold
DE WILLENBERG. 33
Leopold was a completely well-bred
man of the world, and, in point of eti
quette and delicacy, was almost always
fastidiously scrupulous; and he now care
fully avoided adverting to her indiscre
tion, knowing it would give her additional
pain, though he afterwards hesitated not
to inflict that pain in a different shape.—
“Lady,” said he, “my presence here may
excite your amazement—nay, it may be
deemed presumptuous, until you know
the purport of my visit; hear it then at
once: I come to save your life.”
“And De Willenberg's 2" she demand
ed, with a wild cry of joy, while she
blamed herself for harbouring a thought
inimical to him for an instant. “Save my
Theodore—can you do that?”
“Yes, lady Victoria, I can.”
The excess of her joy threw her into a
sort of momentary delirium; she attempt
ed, in the wildness of her gratitude, to
throw herself at his feet, but he upheld
her.—“Art thou indeed,” cried she—“art
thou
24 DE WILLENBERG.
thou an agent from above—the minister
of Heaven, sent to perform its goodly
works on earth? Who-who art thou,
invested with such high authority? art
thou the king himself?”
“I am his brother. Surely lady Victo
ria should know me—I am the duke of
Silesia. A word from me will save you.”
“Then, I beseech your highness, speak
it. What kind power guided your foot
steps hither? what could tempt the bro
ther of our sovereign to a place—a dread
ful place, like this?—I pray you, pardon
my agitation—such an honour I could
not, in such a situation, be prepared for.”
“Talk not of honours at such a mo
ment as this; humanity, pity, the most
powerful feelings of our nature, urged me
to hasten to preserve two precious lives.
The sentence hath been passed, lady, and
the very warrant for your deaths has re
ceived the king's signature; so that the
case admits of little delay—I must be
prompt.”
“Let
IDE WILLENBERG. 25
* Let me recall De Willenberg,” said
she, rushing in ecstacy towards the door
to bid the official summon him—“even
now he left me. Oh, vain, childish hope
in him, to sue for the royal pardon—to
write to the king!”
* He write to the king!” reiterated
Leopold, while a contemptuous smile
curled his lip; and detaining Victoria–
“No, lady, he must not be recalled; when
I do good, it is my glory to do it private
ly: let him not know it till the thing is
done; good fortune unexpected, is the
sweeter, and will the more rejoice him.”
“Nay, I do entreat your highness, let
him come and share my joy—let him
kneel with me to bless and pray for you;
for myself, oh! it is—it is too much.”
“If you insist, it must needs be so.
But hear me yet a moment ere he comes.
We must remain alone while I propose
conditions for your safety—your compli
ance ensures your lives; and mark me,
WOL. IV. C lady
26 DE WILLENBERG.
lady Victoria,” continued he, in an im
pressive voice that almost chilled her,
“your refusal consigns you both to cer
tain death.”
“What are the terms your highness
would propose?” asked Victoria, the ar
dour of her hopes somewhat damped at
the idea of stipulation; “few are the con
ditions, consistent with honour and inte
grity, that, to save his life, I would not
yield to. Say, duke, what would you?”
“Your heart and hand, fair lady. Nay,
why start thus? why that look of displea
sure?—lady Victoria Herman's counte
nance wears it but indifferently. The
terms are easy, and are they not honour
able 2 Promise me but these, and, ere
two hours elapse, ye shall both be free:
wealth, rank, and regal honours, shall be
yours, Victoria, and the king's favour shall
be Theodore's; you shall be duchess of
Silesia—ay, I have said it, and he shall
hold the highest post at court my interest
- - Can
*
-
DE WILLENBERG. 27
can obtain for him. These are the condi
tions, and you cannot hesitate to accept
them.” -
“Pardon me, duke,” said she, colouring
with resentment at such a proposal, and
the confidence with which he urged it,
“wanity has but little ascendancy over
me; and those conditions, however flatter
ing, splendid, or honourable they may be,
I cannot hesitate to reject.”
“Reflect for a moment; assuredly you
are not so blind to your own interest—
you would not rush headlong to death?”
“Let a few words at once undeceive
your highness. I can never be your wife
—nothing can induce me to comply; my
vows are already plighted to another—to
De Willenberg; in return, I received his.
But for our love, sincere and mutual, we
should not now be here; and think you,
after all, I would prove faithless to him?
if you do, you know me not—though
you say, duke, I should know you.”
“Is it the accomplished daughter of
- C 2 count
28 DE WILLENBERG.
count Herman who talks thus fancifully?”
said Leopold, forcing a smile of increduli
ty—“no, no; let fabled lovers, heroines
of romance, talk of the fealty they owe
their lords—yes, let them heroically brave
the direst blows of fate, and all the hor
rors of the poet's brain, mocking such
dangers; but remember, lady,” and again
his voice sunk, “ their dangers are ima
ginary—yours are real.” º
“Think you my sorrows of so light a
nature that they may be sported with ?
or does your highness mean seriously what
you propose?—This is a place, and this
an hour, sir, to me so solemn, that such
conversation is unbecoming—nay more—
it is disgusting, illiberal, and unworthy
the character Silesia's duke should bear.”
The proud dignity of her voice and
manner awed him for a moment, as she
waved her hand to put an end to the sub
ject; but soon recovering his effrontery,
he proceeded—“Most seriously I mean
it; hear me repeat them. Say you will
w’ abandon
DE WILLENBERG. 29
abandon this romantic passion—for, par
don me, lady, I cannot otherwise designate
it—say you will do this, or love De Wil
lenberg as you ought. Regard his life—
still more, his honour; know that it is in
your power to save him from a fate most
ignominious—a terrible fate, that would
overwhelm you both—both, did I say?—
ay, the whole of your noble house, in
endless shame: ye could not brook dis
grace. Here is an alternative, and one
that none but yourself would slight: con
sent to be my wife—to wear the honours
that my wealth and rank will bring you
—to have your brows graced with the
magnificence of a ducal coronet; and, the
instant your lips pronounce that promise,
I depart, to claim his majesty's pardon for
you both.”
Still our heroine continued firm.—
“ Duke,” said she, “let that pardon be
withheld from us—let the next hour see
us, even on a scaffold, breathe our last,
ere I consent to this.”
C 3 “And
30 IDE WILLEN13ERG.
“And would you indeed consign the
one you feign to love forsooth to public
infamy—to a cruel death 2 Is this your
boasted love for him?”
“So well I love him, sir, that I would
not resign the bliss of even in death being
faithful to him for your whole dukedom.
Now, what says your highness?”
“Rather ask yourself, Victoria, what
De Willenberg would say to such a proof
of love for him as this; would he not, for
his own sake, yield you to me?”
“Too well do I know him to think so
for an instant; and were I base enough
to yield myself, Theodore would not live
long to mourn my baseness.” -
“ Use not so harsh a term for it; at
best, it were to exalt yourself—at worst,
it were but a copy of the world, where
such things happen every day. Give up
this Theodore, and receive in return the
fondest heart that ever glowed within the
breast of man; be not ungrateful for my
proffered service.”
“I thank
DE willENBERG. 31
“I thank your highness for so great an
honour, but, on such terms, I must and
do decidedly decline the service. Give up
my Theodore —at such a price I would
reject your brother's wide dominions.
Surely, duke, a noble mind should ever
find its own reward in the consciousness
alone of doing a noble deed. Hear me
now : I will never be your wife.”
“You would marry De Willenberg
then, I suppose—marry a beggar!—truly
a worthy match for the heiress of Herman
Castle!”
Indignation at his contemptuous and
malignant expressions instantly crimsoned
her cheeks.-" Now, duke, know me at
once,” said she, constraining herself to
speak to him through her resentment;
“ though poverty, in all its meagre hor
rors, stood frowning beside De Willenberg,
to warn me from my fixed purpose with
its frightful threats, still I should love him
as I now do. Beside you stands gaudy
splendour, arrayed in power, wealth, the
C 4 pomp
32. DE WILLENBERG,
pomp of royalty, and all that can seduce
mortal vanity, yet do I reject you; again
and again I say it—I reject you.”
“You will not be my wife—will not
wear my coronet?”
“ Never.”
“What would you say suppose I ha
your father's promise for it?” -
“As I have said already—I would re
fuse.”
“What! bid defiance to your father's
will, and brave his anger!—Now then, to
put your courage to the test, know that I
have received a promise from him—ay,
from your father's lips, that you should
wed me. Now to this what say you?”
As he said this emphatically, his face
glowed with exultation at his expected
triumph.
“From my father " she indignantly
repeated—“but no—your words, I think,
are false; and were they not, still would
I spurn your offers—were your love, your
riches, rank, and titles, boundless all, still
would
DE WILLENBERG. 33
would I for ever reject you. Now, duke,
you are answered; and now, knowing me
unalterable, I pray your highness to de
part.”
Leopold rose to go; for a moment he
stood abashed and confounded at her firm
ness—a conduct so wholly unexpected by
him; but the ebullitions of his wounded
pride were not to be controlled.—“Your
wish shall be complied with, haughty
lady,” said he—“I will depart; but, mark
my words, your doom is now decreed—
this very night you and your Theodore
shall die: in the awful moments of death
you will too late repent your romantic.
love and your unwarrantable resentment.
Proud, scornful woman, farewell!”
Unfavourable suspicions relative to the
duke, such as never had dawned upon
her mind till now, were the consequences
of this visit; and, however unpleasant
such a communication might at this time.
be to De Willenberg, she felt it incum
C 5: . bent
34 DE WILLENBERG.
bent on her to make it known, and on
that account the more anxiously wished
for his return.
CHAP
DE WILLENBERG. 35
CHAPTER II.
----------------
In groundless hope and causeless fear,
Unhappy man! behold thy doom;
Still changing with the changing year—
The slave of sunshine and of gloom.
Dr. Johsson.
WE will now, after our long absence, re
visit Herman Castle, to see what has all
this time been going forward there.
Doctor Wernheim's professional aid had
been so eminently beneficial to madame
Bertonville, that she was, in the latter
part of the evening, perfectly composed,
and able to converse with those around
her. The interdict being removed that
excluded all but one attendant, her first
wish was to see the count her brother—a
C 6 wish.
36 DE WILLENBERG.
wish which he had fondly anticipated;
and the moment it was communicated to
him, he hastened, with little Henri, to her
apartment. With transport that recalled
the vivid glow of health to her cheeks,
she folded to her bosom her darling boy,
who, in the fullness of his joy, kissed and
wept over her, until his agitation obliged
him to retire.
When thus left alone together, they en
tered on the subject nearest to their hearts;
and the countess anxiously inquired whe
ther any intelligence of Victoria had yet
arrived? -
Hope still cheered the paternal bosom
—hope that she lived, and would be re
stored to them—the expiring hope that
Leopold had rekindled; and he informed
his sister of the duke's visit, with the con
versation that had passed between his
highness and himself, leaving out all that
related to the king. There were an energy
and
IDE WILLENBERG. 37
and confidence in his manner of relating
it, that implied a full reliance on Leopold's
plausible and specious professions, and he
could not help largely expatiating on the
charms and the virtues of that beloved
daughter, who had captivated the proud
heart of Silesia's royal duke; in the en
thusiasm of his love for her, he forgot all
the pangs, forgave all the miseries her
flight had caused him, and in happy anti
cipation spoke of her return. Widely dif.
ferent was the strain in which he expressed
himself towards the calumniated De Wil
lenberg: he believed him false, dishonour
able, ungrateful—believed that he had me
ditated an insult towards his illustrious
house; and he spoke of him with the bit
terest asperity, representing his supposed
unworthiness in the clearest and the strong
est light.
Madame Bertonville had more narrowly
than her brother observed Leopold's cha
racter; she possessed a sound discriminat
ing
r
38 IDE WILLENBERG.
ing judgment not easily biassed, and an
accurate talent of developing the human
disposition. She had seldom been more
correct in her estimation of any one than
of the duke, and with the view of him she
had taken, she was far from being favour
ably disposed to receive his promises or
assertions as founded on sincerity or truth;
she had never much liked him, and she
now liked him still less, for his having,
however false or true his statement might
be, prejudiced her brother against one who
had appeared, and whom she had known
to be in reality, amiable, generous, and de
serving. She was, however, too tenacious
of the count's happiness to throw out a
word that might damp his hopes of having
his daughter restored, and in truth she
participated too much herself in those
hopes to allow her to do so; but she ne
vertheless forbore to stimulate his expec
tations by mentioning how sanguine were
her own; for those hopes, should they not
be fulfilled, would, like a watch too highly
wound.
IDE WILLENBERG. 39
wound up, in a moment fall from their
height, and sink him into the extreme
depth of despair. Victoria's marriage with
Leopold, exalted as was his rank, was the
last thing she would have consented to;
but it was yet only a conditional agree
ment; and she trusted that, should her
niece indeed return, it might be, with
little difficulty, avoided altogether.
The evening was now rapidly closing,
and none of those who had been sent in
quest of De Willenberg had yet returned.
This excited fresh alarm at the castle, and
for some hours the count continued at a
window that overlooked part of the road,
from which he every moment expected to
behold the corpse of him who was once so
dear to him, and whose memory, in spite
of himself, he still loved and cherished.
A train of recollections ensued, at once
pleasing and painful—recollections of De
Willenberg's days of youth, innocence,
and happiness, when, with the lovely little
Victoria,
40 DE WILLENBERG.
Victoria, he had frisked about, in sportive
merriment and delight, beneath those
beautiful plantations his eye now wan
dered over: their shades, alas! would be
hold such scenes of happiness no more.
At length a body of men appeared in
the distant perspective: he watched them
with intense steadiness, until they had al
most reached the gates; in vain had his -
eye sought the body of Theodore, in vain
looked for Conrad amongst them, and he
hurried down to demand the cause from
the others. Horror and consternation in
their blanched features foretold that some
thing disastrous and uncommon had oc
curred; they all seemed labouring to speak,
and full of awful intelligence; and one of
them at length gaining utterance, detailed
elaborately the events of their journey.
Superstition, and an implicit belief in
the marvellous, had ever held an unlimit
ed ascendancy over their uncultivated
minds,
DE WILLENBERG. 41
minds, and never had superstition a more
ample theme than the sudden and myste
rious disappearance of Conrad. They had
proceeded far beyond the wood into which
he had turned with his master ere they
missed him, and even then the remainder
of their way was so interspersed with trees,
that it occasioned little alarm until they
reached the forest; on the borders of it
they stopped for a while, not one of them
having in reality the slightest wish to en
ter it—it was thought wholly improbable
that Conrad would have ventured into
such a place unaccompanied, even in the
broad light of day; and some of them,
glad of any excuse to delay proceeding,
rode up and down, calling on their lost
companion for a considerable time; but
the echo of their own hoarse voices was
the only answer they received.
Wearied by this fruitless exertion, they
at length made up their minds to explore
the forest—an undertaking which, in their
OWn
42 DE WILLENBERG.
own opinions, was no trifling proof of
their courage, leaving duty out of the
question, though the latter was in fact by
much the more powerful stimulant, as
their loud ejaculations to Heaven for its
protection, and exhortations to their com
rades to stay by them, if any thing should
happen, or they should meet any of the
banditti, bore testimony to; but vain was
the search—no Conrad—and, almost to
their joy, no corpse was to be found; and,
still better, they had not yet encoun
tered a bandit, or a human being of any
description.
They were now unanimously of opinion
that Conrad had disappeared by some
means not quite natural, and that the in
fernal power whom they fully believed to
be the deity of the forest, had borne away
the body of De Willenberg from mortal
view for ever, This opinion was strength
ened yet more as they penetrated the in
terior, where they found themselves en
veloped
IDE WILLENBERG. - 43
veloped in clouds of smoke, which almost
obscured the sky, whenever an opening
amongst the trees gave them a partial
glimpse of it.
Panic-struck, they remained for some
time stationary, until a huge volume of
fire, illuminating the whole surrounding
atmosphere, drew their attention towards
the castle, which the raging element had
by this time more than half destroyed.
Ascending a steep acclivity, they had a
full view of the magnificent and awful
scene; the fire burned with uncommon
clearness and brilliancy—its blazes some
times appeared to reach the very heavens;
and the expanse of heat, glowing and in
sufferable, forbade the idea of a nearer
approach.
How to account for the tremendous
conflagration they knew not; and having
seen the castle sink in a few hours beneath
its fate, they turned towards home, giving
up.
44 DE WILLENBERG.
up every idea of beholding Conrad in this
world again.
The count was far from concurring in
any of their extravagant opinions on the
subject, though at the same time he could
not but be seriously alarmed about Con
rad, who, it seemed most reasonable to
conclude, had entered the forest alone,
and at a great distance from the others;
and being attacked by banditti, had im
mediately fallen a victim to his temerity.
The night was, however, now so far ad
vanced that nothing further could be done
at present, and the count withdrew for a
few hours to his uneasy cough, to water
it again with his tears.
With the impression of so many dread
ful events on his mind, it was impossible
that he could easily sink into repose; his
mind was a wild chaos of horror, hope,
and apprehension—and hope was by much
the least prevalent. What had he to hope
from
IDE WILLENBERG. 45
from his interview with Leopold, more
than the mere possibility that Victoria
lived 2 and, if so, why had he not set out
himself in search of her, instead of leaving
to a stranger the task that best befitted a
father ? Yet how could he have left his
sister in so precarious a state as she had
been in during the day?—A certain air
of incredulity in madame Bertonville,
when he had informed her of the duke's
visit and the purport of it, and which he
had not noticed at the time, now that he
gave way to reflection, forcibly struck
him, and for a while inclined him some
what unfavourably towards his highness;
but there had been an apparent sincerity
about him, the recollection of which re
pelled suspicion; and believing him to be
the amiable and disinterested friend he
appeared, sleep at length stole impercep
tibly over his senses, and wrapped him in
dreams pregnant with events as happy as
those of life had ever been.
Languid
46 DE WILLENBERG.
Languid and unwell, he awoke at an
early hour. It was his intention to set
out this morning in quest of Victoria, yet
where he ought to seek her with any
chance of success, he knew not; this inten
tion he communicated to the countess,
who could suggest nothing satisfactory;
and while they were thus deliberating, the
return of Conrad was announced to them
by one of the wondering domestics.
The first person whom Conrad met in
the castle was Barbara, to whom, in a few
words, he hastily related all that had hap
pened during their separation. She was
ready to assail him with a torrent of ques
tions, for the sight of her lover returned
in safety, after escaping from such dangers,
gave a fresh stimulus to her tongue, which
indeed seldom required any excitement
from art. No pencil but the masterly one
of Hogarth could accurately describe the
expression of her features on her hearing
that De Willenberg was alive—she utter
ed
DE WILLENBERG. 47
ed her astonishment in loud exclamations'
of thanks to Heaven; but the recollection
of what a situation he was now in, along
with her dear young lady, soon acted as a
check upon her wild joy—in the prisons
of the consistory, from whence their de
parture would probably be to the scaffold;
for, however sanguine Conrad was, she
saw no chance of their being saved. She
asked him innumerable questions relative
to them, their trial, the forms of the con
sistory, and all the horrors of that for
midable court; but such interrogatories
being now ill-timed, he waited not to re
ply to them, but hastened to make known
the whole affair to count Herman. He
found his lordship waiting in the saloon
to receive him, but without the slightest
expectation of what he was to hear.
“My good Conrad,” said he, “I am in
deed rejoiced at your return, for I have
passed a night of agonizing suspense,
thinking you devoted to some terrible
- fate
48 DE WILLENBERG.
fate in your search after your poor mas
ter's body. Tell me, tell me, have you
found it? have you conveyed it hither?”
“Yes, my lord count, I have found my
dear master, and Heaven permitted too
that I should find him alive.”
“What say you, Conrad?” demanded
the count, starting from his seat, as if
electrified by the sound—“ your master
living !—Heard I aright? Answer me
again.”
“It is the truth, my lord—he does live;
and so also does your noble daughter, the
lady Victoria.” - -
For the last few hours every hope of
this had again abandoned the desponding
bosom of the count, though he had been
on the point of proceeding to traverse the
surrounding country in search of her; and,
unprepared as he was for the intelligence,
excess of sudden joy at the certainty that
she lived, almost deprived him, at the mo
ment, of reason.—“You have seen my
child then—the darling idol of my soul.
She
DE WILLENIBERG. 49
She lives!—Where—oh, where is she 2–
where is De Willenberg” Regardless
of the disparity of their ranks, in the ar
dour of his gratitude to the one who had
told him this, he threw himself on Con
rad's neck and wept abundantly, sobbing
as if his full heart was ready to bound
from the place that nature had assigned
it.—“But where are they 2” he again de
manded; “say, thou messenger ofjoy and
gladness, say where are my children—my
Victoria, my Theodore? for still, still I
will call him mine.”
What a blow was there in reserve for
his highly-wrought feelings, to whirl them
at once from the summit to which the first
few words had wound them!—what a task
was Conrad's, to inflict that blow—to stun
him with the intelligence that those two
beloved children were imprisoned in the
consistory—capitally convicted, and under
sentence of death! yet he must be told;
better surely that he should know it now,
VOL. IV, D than
50 DE WILLENBERG.
than when it would be too late for human
means to save them. Conrad had not
been brought up in a court—he was igno
rant of its hypocritical mummeries and
formalities; true to nature, nature alone
was his guide. He related every circum
stance from the moment of meeting his
master; he varnished not his detail, but
told it with the honest simplicity and pa
thos of a kind, good, and affectionate heart.
The count heard him to the end with
extraordinary firmness; tears rolled rapid
ly down his cheeks, but he did not sink
beneath the blow—his presence of mind
forsook him not, and here indeed it was
necessary. Ordering his carriage to be
instantly got ready to convey him to
Warsaw, he hastened to inform madame
Bertonville, and then prepared to go in
person to the king, to have repealed, if
possible, the dreadful sentence passed on
De Willenberg and Victoria.
CHAP.
IDE WILLENBERG. 51
CHAPTER III.
*-*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.***
Had we never lov'd sae kindly,
Had we never lov'd sae blindly,
Never met, or never parted,
We had ne'er been broken-hearted. BURNs.
IN proportion as De Willenberg's hopes
had been sanguine as to the probability of
obtaining the royal pardon, so was he now
depressed on returning to Victoria; disap
pointment weighed heavily upon his mind,
and once more he began to despair.
Victoria read in his looks what he tried
to say, but had not courage to question
him; she had foreseen disappointment,
and thought it sufficiently painful, with
out aggravating it by inquiries.
D 2 “Nothing
52 DE WILLENBERG.
“Nothing but sorrow waits upon my
steps, Victoria,” said he, mournfully;
“ hope hitherto, like a meteor, with its
delusive glare, led me through all the la
byrinths of adverse fortune; and, alas! at
what a crisis hath it deserted me!—But I
will trust to it no more.”
“Has your application to the king then
been in vain?” she asked.
“To the king I have made no applica
tion—it is not permitted me. True, I
wrote my letter; but it were the same
had 'I never written it—never thought of
writing it—none would be the bearer of
it; I begged—entreated, on my knees
entreated the official to have it conveyed
to his majesty; but all was in vain—not
even the offer of money could tempt him;
he is resolute in his duty.”
* Term him not resolute—he is obdu
rate; he hath no heart—although he wears
the outward form of man, he is not such,
but some pitiless monster of another spe
cies, to whom nature, in one of her capri
… • * cious
DE WILLENBERG. 53
cious moods, gave human shape. Why
refused he to convey it?”
“ Nay, do not thus censure him, my
love—he but acts in strict conformity with
his duty; it was the stern command of
the king himself, when he gave his royal
sanction for our deaths, that no further
communication to him on the subject
should be allowed—that none should pre
sume to seek forgiveness for us, saying
our crimes deserved no thought of par
don.”
“Cruel, cruel tyrant!” exclaimed Vic
toria; “can he hope that, on the last aw
ful day, when, in rank no higher then
than ourselves, he shall rise with us from
the tomb to hear the last sentence passed
on all—can he expect that mercy from his
Judge which he denies to us?—Is there
no possibility of access to him 2" --
“None whatever; he quitted Warsaw
about an hour ago—it is supposed, for his
summer palace, and returns not until near
midnight. Where may we be then?”
D 3 “If
54 DE WILLENBERG.
“If not on earth, in heaven, I trust,”
said Victoria, calmly, as she raised her
beautiful eyes towards the bourne of her
soul's expectations.
“Surely you are destined for heaven,
if ever mortal was,” observed Theodore,
gazing on the majesty of her figure—
“yes, my Victoria, that hope—a blissful
one it is—is all that is now left us; and
all this world seems as nothing to it. We
will prepare to die as becomes us, for God
is merciful, though man dares to be other
wise.”
In how short a space of time had these
unhappy events followed each other —
how mysterious were the links that suc
cessively connected them —But a few
short days ago, pleasure and joy had ho
vered round them in their most inviting
forms, “adding to mutual love their love
liness”—the goddess of felicity appeared
to have taken up her abode in Herman
Castle; but soon had she passed away,
and
DE WILLENBERG. 55
and with her the shades that danced in
her airy train—reversed and dismal was
the scene now. All had originated from
madame De Willenberg's letter, and the
forgery which it alluded to.
In the midst of these sufferings Theo
.dore could not forget the cause—he could
not forget the misfortunes which his flight
from the castle had been productive of,
for those misfortunes were now before his
eyes; neither could he forget the wrongs
that had been heaped upon him. He now
unbosomed himself to Victoria (for an ex
planation, even thus late, was a duty he
owed her); he stated to her the nature of
those wrongs—detailed the contents of his
mother's letter, with his own subsequent
proceedings respecting the one written in
his name, that had destroyed all his bright
prospects, and the almost-fatal consequen
ces by which they had been followed.
Victoria was shocked and terrified at
D 4 the
w
56 IDE WILLENBERG.
the recital of the perils he had encounter
ed. All these circumstances, when con
sidered, served to render her unfavourable
impressions of the duke of Silesia still
more firm; and, however absurd such an
idea might have hitherto appeared, she
now could not help thinking that he was,
in some way or another, though remotely,
the author of all that had befallen them;
and this opinion she did not hesitate to
impart to De Willenberg. The latter only
required such a suggestion to strengthen
a similar opinion of his own: from vari
ous causes he had long suspected, if not,
in some instances, clearly known, Leopold
to be his bitter enemy; but if hitherto he
had suspected him on strong and palpable
grounds, his thoughts of him were now
no longer mere suspicions—all was plain
and undeniable certainty, for Victoria had
informed him of his highness's visit, the
proposals he had made her, and the deter
mined repulse she had given him. The
graceful modesty in which her words were
- - veiled
DE WILLENBERG. 57
veiled could not conceal the magnanimity
of her soul, or the unshaken sincerity of
her affection for De Willenberg.
The delightful consciousness of being
so beloved by the only woman on earth
he thought worthy of loving, at first stayed
the torrent of resentment against the duke;
but when it found way, it was truly loud
and awful to behold.—“At length,” cried
he—“at length the mystery is solved, and
thus the truth bursts through the clouds
of dark and vague conjecture that so long
obscured it. This then is the man—ay,
this the brother of our sovereign, who
would rival me—this is the base villain
who falsely, and for his treacherous pur
poses, proclaimed my death; he wrote the
fatal letter that led us to our ruin—he is
the cause of our guilt, and on his devoted
head be the full weight of it! Oh! must
we suffer for what his arts have occasion
ed?—Call they this justice?—no, no—it
D 5 - is
58 DE WILLENBERG,
is cruelty, inhumanity. They dare not
put us to death. The king shall know it
all; I will demand our pardon; he shall
know our wrongs—from my own lips he
shall know them, and justice shall be
done.”
“But a few minutes ago, my Theodore,
said you not that access to the king was
impossible? and how, when things are
come to such a desperate pitch, and he
even far from Warsaw—how could you
gain admittance to his presence? Has he
not forbidden the approach of any one
who would dare to mention us?”
“Oh, Victorial he knows not who we
are—he is ignorant of the real names of
those he has condemned; but he shall
know them. About twelve to-night he
returns to the palace; he must, in his way,
pass the place of execution, and see us
mount the scaffold—a lesson fit for royalty
itself; then shall he hear me—then I will
tell aloud his brother's baseness—then the
* general
DE WILLENIBERG. 59.
general voice, as loud, will call for justice;
that will be the time to prove him just,
by proving him impartial.”
“Yet what if our conjectures should
be wrong, and Leopold not be, as we
suspect, the author of that letter?”
“Conjectures! I tell you we have con
firmations ‘strong as proofs of holy writ”
—doubt it not; the one who would take
advantage of my fall to crush me farther'
—to wrest from me your love, that love
which constitutes the last spark of life—
he who would rob me, who would thus
degrade me, would go still farther, and
degrade himself.”
“But what certain proof have we that
he wrote it?—on mere suspicion we dare
not allege so foul a crime against him.
This is a slender hope.” -
“Oh, hope, once more come to my
soul,” exclaimed De Willenberg—“come,
and uphold my drooping spirit!” Sudden
joy animated his features—“If that should
fail, still have I a resource—a potent charm.
D 6 —a little
60 DE WILLENBERG,
—a little talisman, which will throw wide
open to us the gates of mercy, and shew
the nearest passage to his heart: it shall
so touch every spring of that heart, that
he will bid us live.”
“Alas, Theodore what fresh fantasies
are these that thus unfit you for death?—
Do not, do not yield to them.”
“ They are no fantasies, believe me.
Think, if you will, that I deal in mystery
or magic, but of this at least be assured—
if common means procure not our pardon,
and all else should fail to save our lives,
then, quick as lightning, and with magic
power, the talisman shall do it.”
His voice, his manner, his words, all
indeed were mystery deep and unfathom
able to Victoria, who fixed on him for a
moment the sort of doubtful look of
amazement and inquiry, with which she
would have regarded the agent of some
unearthly dealer in sorcery and witchcraft.
—“ What mean these strange expres
sions, De Willenberg?” said she. . . .
- “They
10 E WILLENBERG. 61
“They mean much, but to explain
them now were to dissolve the charm;
let it work this miracle and explain itself.”
He would unveil his obscure purposes
no farther; and an official now came in, to
announce to them that, in two hours
hence, a confessor would attend, to pre
pare them with his holy counsel for the
last journey of mortal—to the tomb.
The clanging of a clock at a distance
informed them that the day was rapidly
on the decline, for they had no other
means of knowing the hour; thick walls,
without any sort of division or opening
but the door, rendered their cell totally
impervious to the light of the sun, which
was by this time sinking from the horizon,
and the waning of a solitary lamp that
glittered in a corner told that several
hours had elapsed since their trial, and
but a few more were to intervene until
they would be summoned to the block.
- De
62 DE WILLENBERG,
De Willenberg sat for some time in
pensive silence, with his eyes fixed on the
quivering light, while the dismal retro
spect of the last few days was present to
his mind. He had nearly forgotten the
important packet, which he now recollect
ed, and the words of the mask forcibly
recurred to him; he had strictly obeyed.
the injunctions of that mysterious being
—no curiosity had tempted him to open
it; he had been solemnly charged never
to do so, unless circumstances should ren
der it necessary—unless his life should be
again attempted; and, wonderful coinci
dence! as if such an event had been anti
cipated, his life was now endangered: the
momentous time was arrived when the
interdict was removed—its contents must
be unfolded to his knowledge, and the
veil beneath which circumstances had
wrapped themselves, must now be drawn
aside; this, therefore, was the hour for
him to inspect it, for his very life perhaps
depended on what he was to read within.
- He
DE WILLENBERG. 63.
He had drawn it from its concealment,
and seated himself with Victoria beside
the lamp, in order to peruse it, when his
hand was arrested by the sound of ap
proaching footsteps. Hastily replacing it,
he sat in expectation of the entrance of
somebody, and presently afterwards Con
rad made his appearance. This was one
whom he had almost despaired of ever,
seeing again, and he shook his hand with
affectionatejoy—nay, he was even inclined
to think favourably of his judges for hav
ing acquitted him.
Conrad, in the honest enthusiasm of his
heart, told them that he had done much
towards saving their lives; he took it for
granted that the king would not utter a
refusal to count Herman's petition to have
them spared. In a few words, he related
his having, innmediately on being libe
rated, hastened to the castle, and told the
whole affair circumstantially to the count,
considering that it would be criminal to
keep
64 DE WILLENBERG.
keep it longer a secret from any motive
whatever; that his lordship had repaired
directly afterwards to Warsaw, to demand
an interview with the king, and would
very soon arrive at the prison to see them
selves. From this, however, his majesty's
absence from the capital left nothing to
hope for, and on one other resource alone
Theodore now relied—their fate depended.
on the power of the talisman.
Conrad had obtained the cardinal's per
mission to be near his master for the re
mainder of the time, and for that purpose
had been accommodated in an apartment
belonging to one of the officials, whither
he withdrew to await the arrival of count
Herman.
Victoria was so agitated on bearing that
her father was about to visit them there,
that, for a considerable time after Conrad
was gone, neither of them had courage to
attempt the perusal of the packet. It
º contained
DE WILLENBERG. 65
contained a brief summary of some of the
principal events which we shall, in our
own words, detail at large in the following
chapter.
! - CHAP
66 DE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER IV.
-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º
Take physic, pomp—
Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel,
That thou may'st shake the superflux to them,
And shew the Heavens more just. — —
He is a great Observer, and he looks
Quite through the deeds of men, SHAKESPEARE.
ERNESTINE, prince of Gallicia, was the
only son of one of the kings of Poland
before the subjugation of that country,
and, of course, heir-apparent to the crown.
Early in life his disposition developed it
self: he was a young man of uncommon
and brilliant talents, full of the follies, the
weaknesses, and many of the vices that
have characterized princes of more modern
times; and his rank and vast wealth en
* abled
DE WILLENBERG. 67
abled him to indulge in all the luxuries,
dissipations, and sensualities, which he was
by nature prone to the enjoyment of His
manners were graceful, elegant, and highly
polished, insomuch that he was universally
acknowledged to be the most accomplished
gentleman in the kingdom. His person
was, in his younger years, remarkably
handsome and dignified, though, in after
times, its beauty degenerated too much
into the embonpoint to be admired; and
his vanity—a failing which he possessed
to a most unreasonable degree, was flatter
ed by cringing courtiers and sycophant
ministers, eager, for their own interest, to
ingratiate themselves with the royal per
sonage who was one day to be their sove
reign. With the other sex he was already
the reigning favourite, and gallantries in
numerous quarters, though with little dis
tinction of rank, very soon added to the
attractions and the eclat of his character,
of which it may easily be concluded that
morality formed, if any, but a very small
- portion,
68 IDE WILLENBERG,
portion, though it seemed some consola
tion to him that he was surrounded by
those who possessed quite as little, if not
less, than himself. Upon his inclinations
he put no restraint—his every passion, no
matter what, was indulged, no matter
how; all that nature and art could supply
was at his command, to gratify his most
inordinate and extravagant wishes. Such
was the consequence of his evil genius,
leading him early into corrupt society,
disgraceful and far beneath him.
But this only lasted a few years, while
his income was ample and adequate to it,
and while the whole nation groaned under
the taxations that supplied him. Un
bounded prodigality, and the infatuating
pleasures of the gaming-table, at length
exhausted his stores, the people would
submit to no further oppressions, and his
propensities being yet unconquered, the
accumulation of debts to an enormous
amount was the result. -
His
DE WILLENBERG. 69
His affairs wearing so serious an aspect,
and his father being unable to liquidate
those debts from his private purse, it was
suggested to him by the friends of the
crown, that to unite himself in marriage
to some wealthy princess was the most
politic step he could take, and the only
thing that could furnish him with the
means of refunding the vast sums he had
borrowed from the neighbouring nobility
and others. Wedlock he had ever consi
dered as a galling chain, and he recoiled
from the proposal, because it must in some
measure act as a check upon his wild and
libertine passions, which had hitherto
known no control; but matters were now
come to a desperate pitch—his debts were
daily increasing, and, urged by the abso
lute necessity of the measure, he yielded
to their arguments, and consented to re
ceive, as his wife, whomsoever they should
fix upon.
The heiresses of several foreign courts
Were
70 DE WILLENBERG.
were named, and amongst those whom
Ernestine had never yet seen, was the
princess Seraphina, daughter of the grand
duke of Tuscany—a young lady amiable
and accomplished, though not at all hand
some. Seraphina was the object of their
unanimous choice, for her dowry was said
to exceed that of any other princess in
Europe; and proposals for her union with
the prince royal of Poland were forthwith
sent to the court of Tuscany, and finally
acceded to.
It was the wish of the duke her father,
that the nuptials should be celebrated at
his own palace, and this being respectfully
signified to the illustrious suitor, he re
paired thither, and received his bride from
the grand duke's hand.
To this union political motives had in
fluenced each party; her immense fortune
was the great inducement to Ernestine,
and the necessity of love and affection to
constitute
DE WILLENBERG. 71
constitute his happiness in the marriage
state, he had not once thought of From
a match thus formed little domestic felicity
was to be expected; Ernestine had been
accustomed to revel in the society of the
most beautiful, and many too of the most
profligate women of the age; he was him
self a profligate, and the modest, unassum
ing virtues of Seraphina, were ill suited to
his depraved taste. A thousand times he
execrated his past follies, that had com
pelled him to enter into this state of bon
dage; but it was a state within the limits
of which he did not long confine himself.
Having brought her over to visit the
country of which she was to be queen,
they returned, after a short stay, to Flo
rence, where one of the duke's magnificent
palaces was ready for their reception, they
having promised, in compliance with his
wish, to fix their principal residence in
that city, until Ernestine should be called
to the throne. There temptation again
assailed
72 DE WILLENBERG.
assailed him in all its former shapes, and
this weak, undisciplined prince, unable to
resist it, was once more borne down the
stream of vice and libertinism. Home
was a desert to him, for there he dared
not introduce his licentious companions;
the society of the princess was irksome,
for she was sensible, prudent, and religi
ous. In the absence of the grand duke
he neglected his amiable and uncomplain
ing wife, and twice she became a mother,
whilst the unnatural father of her offspring
was feasting in the wanton embraces of a
mistress. The halls of that stately edifice,
which had hitherto heard only the sounds
of festivity and joy, now witnessed no
thing but the secret sorrows and tears of
Seraphina. Such, after the splendid for
tune she had brought him, was the return
of a worthless man to an exemplary and
affectionate wife: a case, alas! not unpa
ralleled. -
Whilst Seraphina was engaged in the
early
DE WILLENBERG. 73
early education of her two sons, Augus
tus and Leopold—a task to which her
great acquirements rendered her fully
competent, her royal husband was devot
ing his hours to the company of his fair
courtezan, the signora Velasco—a woman
devoid of every honourable principle—
proud, wicked, and ambitious, and vain
of the complete ascendancy she had gain
ed over her high-born lover. The fruit of
this illicit intercourse was a son, the copy
of his mother in features and in mind.
His birth was a source of infinite joy to
the signora, but Ernestine trembled lest
by any chance it should come to the
knowledge of the grand duke, who would
not fail to resent such an insult and an
injury to his daughter as it deserved. *
These apprehensions, however, very soon
gave umbrage to the haughty frail one,
who, with pride and indignation swelling
her bosom, insisted at first, that as her son
was a prince, he should enjoy the privi
VOL. IV. E leges
74 DE WILLENBERG.
leges of his rank, and as such be brought
up. º -
Alarmed at thinking what the conse
'quences of her ambition might be, should
she persist in a claim of so dangerous a
tendency, the only chance he saw of evad
ing it was in contributing, as liberally as
an overflowing purse would allow, to her
own support, and the splendid adornment
of her beautiful person, besides promising
that the little Ferdinand should receive a
first-rate education, and a fortune equal to
his wants, -
The offer of a sumptuous establishment,
and a large independent income for life,
was indeed a tempting one; yet her aspir
ing soul panted to behold the child she
had given existence to nursed in the lap
of rank, and honoured with the titles and
the homage due to royalty. Self was, how
ever, always predominant in her thoughts,
which banqueted on the glowing picture
- Ernestine
3DE WILLENBERG. 75
Ernestine drew of the consequence she
would derive from such an accession of
fortune, the triumph it would afford her,
the envy and jealousy it would infallibly
excite in her own sex, and the admiration
it would give rise to in the other.
Anxiety for the aggrandizement of her
son was for a while the ruling passion, but
the selfish vanity of her heart triumphed
over it, and she consented to receive the
means of gratifying that vanity, and to
let Ferdinand be sent to a distant school;
with this stipulation on the part of the
prince, that when his father's death should
summon him to wield the sceptre of Po
land, and he must consequently separate
from her altogether, neither she nor her
son should ever seek any further recogni
tion or advancement.
This arrangement having been made,
Ferdinand, to whom the title of count.
Velasco was granted, commenced his stu
, E 2 dies.
76 DE WILLENBERG.
dies. Nature had bestowed on him many
of her choicest gifts; but when she is thus
lavish of her favours; she generally throws
a shade over their vivid colouring, as if
fearful of bringing mortal too near perfec
tion. He was in person dignified and
manly; his handsome and expressive fea
tures bespoke an innate consciousness of
those exterior qualifications that gained
him the admiration of his companions,
over whom he had acquired a superiority
that he took care to preserve: haughty
and arrogant, he could brook no opposi
tion to his will; but he was withal brave,
enterprising, and courageous: the trifling
-and frivolous amusements by which youth
is generally fascinated seemed far beneath
his talents, and he viewed the childish
occupations of some of his schoolfellows
with sovereign contempt; even in his in
fancy he manifested a spirit valorous and
heroic; his chief delight, after the lessons
of the day were over, was to range his
little companions into bands to represent
soldiers,
DE WILLENBERG. 77
soldiers, of which he was always the head
commander, in their playful battles the
conqueror, and in their civil and military
disputes the arbiter. The mystery of his
birth, which was a secret to all but his
preceptor, excited various surmises; but
even his most intimate associates held him
in too much awe to venture an inquiry on
the subject, and his title of count Velasco,
though never before heard of, still remain
'ed undisputed; but many guessed him to
be the illegitimate offspring of some per
son of high rank. He prosecuted his stu
dies with the utmost assiduity and atten
tion, and his attainments in literature were
fully commensurate to his extraordinary
thirst for knowledge.
Hitherto he had never been permitted
to see his royal brothers, Augustus or
Leopold; but about the time that he had
completed his education, a casual circum
stance happened, which introduced him to
the latter, who had heard the whole story
--- E 3 - of
78 DE WILLENIBERG.
of his father's infidelity to his nuptial
WOWS. "
**
Arnold, the son of the woman who had
been Ferdinand's nurse, wishing to better
his condition, and, as he termed it, to see
the world, entered the service of prince
Leopold as his personal attendant, having
heard of the situation by chance. Neither
I.eopold nor he had ever seen each other
before, but both this prince and his ser
vant, though so widely different in their
stations, were perfect counterparts in dis
position; Leopold was almost a copy of
his father, dissipated, licentious, and un
governable—and Arnold was entirely the
creature of his vices and caprices. He
was rather habitually than naturally vici
ous; gratitude bound him to Leopold, if
that sentiment may be termed such, which
attaches even the most depraved to a be
nefactor, though he be a villain; for the
latter, to secure his attachment and faith
ful services, supplied all his necessities
* - with
DE WILLENBERG. 79
with a liberal hand, and settled on him
a handsome salary. The man was thus
taught not merely to countenance, but to
admire and imitate the bad qualities of
his master. Whose is the breast so base,
in which an obligation conferred, by even
an enemy, will not engender some portion
of gratitude, though his very favours and
benefits wear the darkest stamp of vice?
Arnold afforded a striking instance of the
ascendancy of that powerful feeling over
minds otherwise the most perverted, for,
notwithstanding his faults, he was sin
cerely devoted to him.
The first proof of the confidence that
subsisted between them, was Arnold's dis
closure of prince Ernestine's amour with
the signora Velasco, and the existence of
their son Ferdinand. Leopold, fired at
the indignity offered to his illustrious mo
ther, would at first have sought some
means of resenting it, but policy forbade
this idea, and he abandoned it. He soon
- E 4 expressed
80 DE WILLENBERG.
expressed a wish to be introduced to the
young count Velasco, and to cultivate an
acquaintance with him—an introduction:
which Arnold readily undertook to bring
about, and shortly afterwards accomplished.
The brothers were mutually pleased.
with each other—they met privately at
every opportunity—their tastes and incli
nations were similar; and a lasting friend
ship was cemented between them, which
was carefully preserved from the know
ledge of all except Arnold.
The decease of the king of Poland now
called Ernestine to the enjoyment of so
vereign dignities; as the monarch of that
kingdom, it was wholly disallowable that
he should reside in another; accordingly
he prepared to bid farewell to Florence,
and, with his long-neglected consort, to
mount the throne of his ancestors—an
honour which he would rather have shared
with any other woman than Seraphina.
- The
DE WILLENBERG. 81
The artful blandishments of the signora
Velasco had so completely ensnared his
affections, that any thing short of the
splendour of such an elevation would.
hardly have induced him to abandon her
—may, such was their reluctance to sepa
rate, that he was on the point of proposing
to her to accompany him secretly into
Poland—a proposal which she would un
hesitatingly have taken advantage of
Love and prudence were long at variance
in his bosom, but the latter happily gain
ed the victory; he was now about to be
exalted to a height where the eyes of a
whole nation would be fixed upon him—
the most conspicuous individual in the
realm, he could not expect that his actions,
of whatever nature, could escape general
observation, and wisely sacrificing his af.
fection to the necessity of decorum, he
resigned his fascinating mistress for ever.
He left her not, however, without making
an ample settlement on her, and furnish
ing Ferdinand with a large supply of mo
E 5 ney,
82 DE WILLENBERG.
mey, but on the again-specified proviso,
that he must never expect to be recog
nised, and that all claims between them
were to be totally at an end.
To this Ferdinand readily agreed, for
the voluptuous pleasures and gaieties of
Florence had attached him to that city,
where he determined to remain amongst
his dissolute companions, while he possess
ed the means of mingling in the vortex of
dissipation in which he saw all around
him plunged.
Very different were the conditions on
which Leopold took leave of him. It was
fixed that they should keep up a clandes
tine correspondence at regular intervals,
which would be the more practicable, as
he (Leopold) was, instead of going with
the king to Poland, about to be sent into
Germany, for the purpose of finishing his
education there, under the superintend
ence of a father of the church, of eminent
- literary
DE willENBERG. 83
literary attainments and abilities. Thither
he soon commenced his journey, and at
the same time the king, the queen, and
prince Augustus, who was now next heir
to the crown, departed for their dominions.
To the young and inexperienced, the
absolute command of money is always
dangerous, and often fatal, more especially
if to inexperience is added either a weak
or a vicious principle. This was exempli
fied in Ferdinand, who had now emerged,
into the world of folly and depravity,
without restraint, without fear either of
God or man; his partial mother indulged
him in every thing—she laughed at his
indiscretions, feigned blindness to his
vices, and, in short, might be said to have
thus completed his ruin. The consequence
was, not, that he loved her, for he had
withal sense enough to perceive that she
was a worthless and bad-hearted woman,
but that she forfeited every portion of re
spect from him; and giving up his whole
E 6 time
84 DE WILLENBERG.
time to the society of the most abandoned
of both sexes, he became at length equally
abandoned himself.
Too late the signora repented her con
duct: she beheld her son on the verge of
poverty and starvation—in the giddy hey
day and thoughtlessness of her vain career,
she had neglected to make any provision
for him—she had brought him up to no
profession, and she dared not think of en
croaching further on the bounty of the
king, who would doubtless spurn an ap
plication so unreasonable, and which she
might have so easily avoided, if guided
by common sense, prudence, or foresight.
Whilst contemplating the wreck she
was partly the cause of, she was suddenly
seized with a fever, whose progress was so
rapid and malignant, as to leave no hope
whatever of her recovery; the predictions
of her medical attendants were verified,
and in three days from the commence
ment
D1E WILLENBERG. 85
ment of the attack, she was no more.—
Before she expired, Ferdinand was sum
moned to her deathbed; the scene was
truly an affecting one, and such as might
have drawn tears from a stoic; hardened
indeed must he be who can, without emo
tions of pity, behold the deathbed of a
penitent—that penitent a parent!—Fer
dinand was not so entirely lost to huma
nity as to regard her unmoved, for sincere
and fervent was her repentance, and acute
her sufferings. She extended her hand
—the clammy moisture of death was on
it, and taking that of Ferdinand, she drew
him towards her, and feebly embraced
him.—“Here, my child,” said she, “is a
lesson for the wisest ; where is the one
who may not gain instruction from a
scene like this? whose is the bosom that
it may not fill with awe?—Listen to me
with attention, and let the last words of
your dying mother be indelibly impressed
on your memory for the remainder of
your life. I am now quitting for ever
this
86 DE WILLENBERG.
this sinful world—bidding farewell to all
its pomps and vanities, those baneful se
ducers that first misled me—a world
where, like yourself, my son, I had my
foibles and my vices flattered, cherished,
and indulged, instead of being combatted,
until they fastened upon my heart, and
became almost the very essence of my ex
istence; I revelled in a round of luxury
and delight, at the end of each day look
ing forward for the next, only that it
might bring me new pleasures, new temp
tations: all these, alas! it brought; I
grew enamoured of this world—it was
the only heaven of my wishes, and I
thought not of another. But soon or late,
I trust, repentance comes to all—to me it
comes in the solemn hour of dissolution,
blotting out my sins, and divesting death
of its terrors. I have made my peace
above—I have entreated the pardon of
my God, and I can die happy. Oh, Fer
dinand! think of this—think of thy mo
ther's deathbed; repent thou likewise,
and
DE will ENBERG. 87
and may thy last moments be as tranquil
as mine !” This was the last effort of ex
piring nature—she sank back on her pil
low, and almost in the next instant ceased
to live.
Ferdinand was visibly much affected—
his heart, hitherto so obdurate, was soften
ed by remorse, and he promised the weep
ing Jacintha (his nurse, and the signora's
only domestic and friend during her ill
ness), that the rest of his life should, by
his amendment, atone for the errors and
the irregularities of that which was past—
a promise in which he was at the time
sincere.
The proud count Velasco was now
placed in very different circumstances—
he had not even money sufficient for the
interment of his unfortunate mother, and
the kind-hearted Jacintha not only gave
him all the assistance in her power to
accomplish this, but drew from her little
store
88. DE will,ENBERG. *
store to supply his necessities; these in
deed were numerous and urgent, inso
much that, beholding him thus reduced,
his affectionate nurse carried her genero.
sity still farther, and insisted on his par
taking of the comforts of her homely
dwelling, and residing with her altoge
ther.
Such an offer was too consonant with
his own wishes to be rejected; he divested
himself of the gaudy exterior of rank
which he could no longer keep up, and
leaving off the title of count, under the
plain name of Ferdinand Velasco he took
up his abode with her, professing what he
then really felt, a deep sense of her kind
ness. Beyond the reach of former temp
tations, in this humble seclusion he gave
himself up for some time alternately to
study and to the management of Jacin
tha's little garden, and other domestic
concerns; but the weeds that are not
plucked by the root from the soil, they
infest,
DE WILLENBERG. 89.
infest, but merely severed by the stem,
ever regenerate with redoubled vigour.
and venom; so also the evil propensities
of the human heart, if not eradicated, and
that heart strictly disciplined, are ever
sure to baffle each weak attempt to nip
them in the growth.
The temper of the young recluse was
by no means fitted for a life of solitude,
nor had it vanquished his naturally-buoy
ant spirits; he again sighed for the com
pany of his old associates, again sighed to
participate in their diversions. Jacintha
was no longer an object of his gratitude—
he no longer thanked her with his accus
tomed sincerity for the kindnesses she
daily heaped upon him—his deportment
to her was sullen and morose—he looked
on her as a being so vastly inferior to him,
that his subsisting on her bounty amply
repaid the obligation by the honour he
conferred in doing so; all his mother's ex
hortations were forgotten, and he became
• every
90 T}E WILLENBERG.
every day more and more discontented
with his lot.
Jacintha noticed this, and well she knew
what to attribute it to; but, aware how
dreary were his prospects, and hoping still
that time and his own reflections would
reconcile him to the privations his mis
conduct had occasioned, she forbore to
comment on it, or even to reprove him
for the contemptuous treatment she daily
experienced from him. But the master
piece of his ingratitude was yet to come.
At Jacintha's request he repaired to Flo
rence, to receive a considerable sum of
money that was due to her there, having
made up his mind as to the purpose he
should apply it to. In a fatal hour the
whole sum was paid into his hands—two
hundred ducats was the amount; he view
ed it with rapacious delight—it was the
first time, for nearly a year, that so much
money was in his possession, and, now
that he had it, he determined to make
the
DF: WILLENBERG. 91
the most ofit. Instead of returning home,
it was his intention to spend the night at
his former place ofrendezvous, the gaming
table, whither he presently bent his steps.
As he walked slowly along a dark and
unfrequented street that led to it, he was
accosted by a voice familiar to him, and
looking round, he instantly recognized
the signor Maratti—a character with
whom he had some months before become
acquainted, at the very place to which he
was now going. With all the unceremo
nious freedom ofan old friend, Maratti took
his arm and accompanied him, for his des
tination was the same.
There was a mystery about this man
which none could penetrate; and Ferdi
nand was wholly ignorant who he was,
how he lived, or where he had a home.
The gambling-house seemed to be his
principal resort in Florence: like the owl,
he sallied forth at night, to mingle in its
noisy revels, and through the day his,
- haunts
92 DE WILLEN1BERG.
haunts were obscure and unsearchable.
A few, with whom he appeared to be most
intimate at this general rendezvous, had
once or twice ventured to question him
on the subject; but the displeasure he
evinced at such questions completely awed
them from a repetition of them. All in
quiries about him seemed as if baffled by
some superior and invisible power, and
they were at length abandoned asfruitless.
But notwithstanding these suspicious cir
cumstances, he was there the life of the
society, and found none scrupulous or
virtuous enough to shrink from the ac
quaintance of a being who was either
afraid or ashamed to declare who he was.
His mind was enriched by a knowledge
of almost every science that man is capable
of attaining, and his extensive informa
tion rendered him a lively and intelligent
companion. His gaiety appeared spon
taneous and unforced—his wit, brilliant
and inexhaustible—his penetration, skilful.
and profound—he read, with one deep.
glance,
IDE WILLENBERG. 93
glance, every passion, every movement of
the heart; but his inward heart was
hidden from all—his thoughts none could
dive into. His manners were of that
specious and conciliating cast that fasci
nated all—and amongst his most devoted
admirers, the infatuated Velasco ranked
one of the first—and he felt not a little
flattered on perceiving that this sentiment
of admiration was reciprocal.
From their first meeting, the signor had
always regarded him with peculiar atten
tion. In Ferdinand's deportment there
was certainly something noble and en
gaging; and to this was Maratti's partiality
to him attributed by the rest. The signor,
however, seemed to think it his privilege
to ask those questions of others, which he
refused to answer of himself. .
On the way he interrogated Ferdinand
as to his present pursuits, and the manner
in which he had passed his time since they
SaW
94 DE WILLENBERG.
saw each other before. These inquiries
were suggested, apparently, more by
friendship than mere curiosity, and they
were ingenuously replied to. Velasco
told him of his mother's death, and the
humble and dependent state to which his
own extravagance had subsequently re
duced him—that he now lived at a short
distance from Florence, in the cottage of
his nurse, who, possessing a little money,
was enabled to support him without injury
to herself; and crowned his indiscretion,
by letting him know what use he was
about to make of the ducats he had just
received in her name.
In the most imposing tone of kindness,
Maratti expressed his regret and surprise
that one so young, and so highly gifted
by nature, should have doomed himself
to a life of obscurity—buried in a lonely
cottage, with his old nurse—to solitude
that befitted but a hermit, or misanthrope
—and occupations ignoble and unmanly.
—“You
DE WILLENBERG. 95 -
—“You were not born to live unknown,
my friend,” said he “your very personal
endowments alone entitle you to mingle
in the society of the world. Nature has
done much for you—she has given you a
prepossessing face, a figure noble and
commanding, a mind towering and lofty
—far, far superior to the generality of
men: and for what, forsooth, has she given
you all these?—surely not merely to ex
hibit them to a jabbering old woman—
not to employ your splendid talents on
pursuits frivolous, and almost menial—not
to spend your days amongst woods and
purling streams.-No, Ferdinand 1 she has
gifted you thus that you may be a hero!
that you may earn renown and honours
immortal—that you may do such deeds
as magnanimity alone can perform—that
you may live and die a hero! and deserve
those laurels which, waving around your
grave, shall tell the world in after days,
* Here lies Velasco "
This was a strain of encomium that
Ferdinand
96 IDE WILLENBERG.
Ferdinand was unaccustomed to—vanity
and heroism already inflated his bosom;
yet there was something in Maratti's
manner that almost alarmed while it
flattered him.—“But how, signor,” asked
he, smiling at his enthusiasm, “how are
all these great intentions of nature to be
accomplished?—by what means am I to
become the hero, and earn the laurels you
speak of 2"
“How " repeated Maratti; “easily
enough : there are many ways of obtaining
fame, count; but we will talk farther on
this subject to-morrow.—Now for the
chance of a few pistoles.”
They entered the room together, and
were welcomed, after their long absence,
by expressions of cordiality and friendship
on all sides. The games, however, suffer
ed only a momentary interruption—all
was again a scene of deafening clamour,
bustle, and confusion; even the din of
rattling dice was drowned in the loud
incongruity
DE WILLENBERG. 97
incongruity of contending voices—the ex
ulting shouts of the winners at one mo
ment thundered upon the air; and in the
next, the whole place was converted into
ahell, by the horrible rage and vociferations
of the losers.
Ferdinand was but an indifferent player,
which all around him were aware of, es
pecially Maratti, who eagerly watched
him.
A young cavalier, flushed with wine,
and displaying a profusion of gold, pre
sently entered, and staking a hundred and
fifty ducats, challenged any one to lay
down a similar sum. This appeared fair
game for Velasco, who had determined to
run every risk, and instantly rushing for
ward, he flung down two hundred, desiring
the other to produce fifty more, which
was accordingly done.
The cavalier threw with apparent indif.
VOL. IV. F ference;
98 DE WILLENBERG.
ference; and in a moment bets were
doubled in favour of Ferdinand, who, in
a transport of joy almost convulsive,
grasped the dice-box, and whirled out its
contents.-‘‘Victory, victory ! they are
mine, by Heaven " exclaimed he, with a
triumphant laugh, as he snatched up the
glittering prize.
“We will double it, Velasco,” said his
disappointed adversary, putting down
four hundred ducats, which was readily
agreed to.
They threw again, and Ferdinand lost.
A tremendous imprecation burst from him
—not a single ducat now remained in his
possession Almost frantic at his loss, he
was hurrying away, when, seizing his arm,
Maratti withheld him—“Eh, Velasco P’
said he, laughing sportively, as he forced
him back, “would you act the baby thus,
and fly off half-crying, at having lost a
few paltry ducats. Come, come, my boy,
cheer up, and prepare to play something
like.
DE WILLENBERG. 99
like a manly game—here is a loan of four
hundred for you, which will get you your
own back again in the twinkling of an
eye; or, if you lose, why, confound it, let
the loss be mine.”
Without hesitating to consider what
might be the motives of such extraordi
nary generosity, or how it was to be re
paid, Ferdinand instantly took the proffer
ed sum, and scarcely knowing what he did,
dashed it on the table.—“ Down with four
hundred, if you are a man!” he passionately
exclaimed, addressing the cavalier, who,
with a haughty grin of satisfaction at his
own success, complied.
Again and again fortune befriended
Velasco, until, with a loud and harrowing
curse, his antagonist declared he had lost
five thousand ducats, and would play no
more.
Ferdinand's heart beat with violent
emotions of rapture, as he heard the vast
F 2 amount
100 I).E WILLENBERG.
amount of his luck, and saw his opponent
quit the table completely stripped. In
this wild tumult of joy he forgot his debt
to Maratti, who, without alluding to it,
now stepped forward, demanding if he
would venture again for one thousand.—
He paused in momentary fear and irreso
lution—how terrible, should he lose ! but
then the idea of winning was Heaven
itself—he would in that case have six
thousand two hundred ducats—the im
pulse was irresistible; and inwardly ejacu
lating a prayer for success, of which he
had not a doubt, he exultingly counted
out the sum.
Every passion of his soul might be read
in his countenance, as with one great.
sweep he cleared the board ; and this was
a subject of wonder to the by-standers,
as the signor Maratti was known to be a
first-rate player, and almost invariably a
winner.
Six
DE WILLENBERG I01
Six thousand two hundred were now
staked by each—doubled—and all fell to
Ferdinand, whose ecstasy broke out in
several wild and incoherent expressions.
“Velasco, you are a lucky fellow to
night,” observed one of the lookers-on.
“Psha! a mere bagatelle,” said Maratti
—“mere children's play: come now, Ve
lasco, we will play like men, and set
others an example. Let me see, there are
just forty-nine thousand six hundred du
cats between us—not one more or less—
it is a trifle to be sure, compared to what
we have played for ere now; but let us
have a trial for it.” -
“By the mass this night will make
your fortune,” was the general buz in
the ears of the half-hoping, half-fearing
Ferdinand : “Maratti is no match for
you; you will pluck his wings while there
is a feather in them.”
Velasco thought it a dreadful and im
F 3 prudent
I02 IDE WILLENBERG.
prudent hazard, notwithstanding all their
flattering anticipations; but should he
refuse, he would be scoffed at, and perhaps
expelled ! Encouraged by their loudly
expressed hopes, and the probability of
his winning, he could no longer hesitate
—more than forty-nine thousand ducats
sparkled on the board ' What a sight for
the rapacious eye of a gamester! Ferdi
nand's eyes seemed ready to devour the
golden treasure—they were fastened on it
as if it was the god of his adoration; his
life, his soul, his all on earth and heaven,
seemed to depend upon one single throw
—one eventful cast of the dice; on the
deed of a moment hung his fate—that
moment came—with dreadful impatience
he threw the dice, and lost
Instantaneously his colour changed to
the livid hue of death.-‘‘Powers infernal
all is gone, and I am undone!” he franticly
screamed, and snatching a stiletto from
beneath his mantle, he plunged it in his
side,
DE WILLENBERG. 103
side, and fell to the ground in strong
convulsions. -
Just then a summons, evidently pre
concerted, called Maratti away, and amidst
the confusion that ensued, he triumphantly
bore off his valuable booty.
Meantime a surgeon had been sent for,
to examine Ferdinand's wound, which
was found to be only superficial, the
weapon having met some opposition from
a belt round his waist, and was easily
closed by the application ofproper dressing
and bandages. It had, however, bled
profusely, and for many hours he continued
relapsing from one fainting fit into another,
occasioned less by consequent debility
than his yet-unsubdued rage. He raved
incessantly on his loss, during his short
intervals of animation, vowing the direst
vengeance on Maratti, and accusing those
around him of having been all colleagued
to ruin him. With much difficulty his
F 4 Sel]SeS
104 DE WILLENBERG.
senses were restored to a state of compo
sure, and at his own desire a temporary
lodging was procured for him in the
neighbourhood, whither he was carefully
conveyed; and the surgeon having pre
vailed on him to take a powerful opiate,
he soon sunk into a profound sleep, which
lasted until late on the following day.
On awakening from this transient ob
livion, a thousand terrible thoughts assailed
him : he had never been sunk so deep in
'guilt before, nor ever had his situation
been so utterly hopeless—without friends!
without a home !—for after his villainy he
dared not think of returning to Jacintha,
and he had nothing to expect from Ma
ratti—nay, he was already indebted to
him four hundred ducats; and surely the
best he had to hope was, that he would
not demand the payment of them, for
to pay such a debt was impossible: but
how little did he know of Maratti!—how
greatly did he deceive himself by such a
hope
DE WILLENBERG. 105
hope Deeply, bitterly, he cursed the
hand that had reduced him to beggary;
and long he prayed that he might never
behold that mysterious and awful being
again—a wish that seemed likely to be
gratified, as he had neither seen nor heard
any thing of him since his sudden disap
pearance on the preceding night, laden
with his ill-gotten gold.
Thus did he pass this day of horror—
the horror of conscious guilt. Early on
the next he was able to quit his bed, and
shortly afterwards Maratti appeared before
him. He blamed him for the rash act he
had committed, but congratulated him on
his recovery, saying he should have come
to see him sooner, but had been prevented
by unavoidable business.
The sight of him was now hateful to
Ferdinand, who trembled with the appre
hension of hearing his debt mentioned,
F 5 and
106 DE WILLENBERG.
and in part anticipated what he was about
to say. -
- “You have been a loser to a great ex
tent, I presume,” observed the signor.
“I have indeed,” replied the terrified
Velasco: “I have turned the two hundred
ducats to bad account.”
“And the four hundred I lent you to
no better,” said the other, emphatically.
Ferdinand could put no favourable
construction on this.—“Would to Heaven
you had not lent them to me!” said he.
“ It is certainly unfortunate, count,
especially as I am at present in need of
money, and a large sum too: pressing
exigencies compel me to mention this—
of course, signor, you understand me—
money must be had—and you will oblige
me by procuring for me the amount of
your debt against this time to-morrow.”
Horror-struck at the demand, after the
money had been voluntarily tendered to
º him,
DE WILLENBERG, 107
him, without any condition of payment—
a demand too which he was so totally
unable to answer, Ferdinand looked in
credulously at him for a moment, but his
stern aspect for ade a doubt.—“ Good
God!” he wildly cried, “in what way am
I to procure it for you—what would you
have me do?” -
“Do ! why cajole your indulgent old
nurse for it, to be sure—you have not
scrupled to borrow two hundred ducats of
her money already, and surely the kind,
good-hearted soul will not refuse to ac
commodate you with a few hundreds
more.”
“Absurd monstrous! you know well,
signor, that I dare not make such an
application—you do but banter with me.”
“Count Velasco, you mistake me,”
said Maratti, with a severe frown; “I am
in no bantering humour—your reply is
ridiculous. Recollect that this business
is of a serious nature, and admits of no
trifling: I repeat that I am urged by
F 6 - necessity,
I08 DE WILLENBERG.
necessity, and the money I must have by
to-morrow morning, get it how you will.”
Any means of obtaining it Ferdinand
would have seized, but there were none.
—“Can you, signor, thus cruelly insist
on an impossibility? know you not that
it is entirely out of my power to pay you
at present?—will you not pity me?” con
tinued he, falling on his knees at the feet
of this deep-designing and inexorable vil
laim—so abject does a consciousness of
guilt render us—“will you not compas
sionate me for the consequences I have
suffered? I cannot, indeed I cannot, refund
the sum at present, but 22
“Pity you!” reiterated Maratti, turning
from him with a contemptuous smile;
“will pity restore my money, which you
sacrificed to your demoniac passions at
the gaming-table?—will pity, forsooth !
put four hundred ducats in my pocket,
or will pity save you from myjust revenge?
Count Velasco, do you take me for a fool?
—k pity you indeed, but what of that?—
think
DE willeNBERG. 109
think you that so childish a sentiment will
prevent me from asserting my right, or
enforcing the money you have robbed me
of?—think you that I fear to do so?
No, no—well might you then laugh at
me, and pity me as a fool in earnest. But
this is mere drivelling—I am not one who
will be sported with. Mark me, now
yonder sun reaches not its meridian to
morrow, ere every ducat of it shall be
returned to me, or tremble at the storm
of vengeance I will hurl upon your head.”
“What vengeance?" cried the shudder
ing Ferdinand—“Say, signor Maratti,
what is it you would do?”
“Deliver you into the hands of justice
—ay, gasp and stareif you will, until you
turn to a statue! To justice, I repeat—
you shall dearly pay for boy rowing your
nurse's property without her permission,
and I need not tell you how they punish
rogues in Florence.”
“ Wretch " vociferated Ferdinand,
starting
I 10 DE WILLENBERG.
starting indignantly from his kneeling
posture, no longer able to contain himself,
and grasping the arm that Maratti ex
tended to wave him off, “dare you thus
mock the miseries you yourself have
caused—condemn the vices yourself have
led me into? Oh, no, it surely cannot
be—this indeed is burlesquing hypocrisy
—human nature cannot possibly be so
base! you would not thus requite my
former friendship and favours to you?”
“Poor worthless insect' is it you who
dares talk to me in this presumptuous
strain 2—Favours! beware, stripling, of
forgetting yourself too far. I say, again,
my money I will have; or by this hand
that lent it to you, I will deliver you to
death " - -
“Then begone, ingrate! vilest of hypo
crites and to your worst I dare you!”
exclaimed Velasco, his heart torn with
rage, and his eyes flashing indignation
and horror—“Begone! or I shall forget
myself—
DE WILLENBERG, 111
myself—forget every thing, until the sight
of my dagger, plunged to the hilt in your
blood, shall recall me!”
“Count,” said the signor, coolly, “you
have now sealed the fiat of your doom—I
have a remedy, and I go to employ it—
I will hear no more of your canting.”
The idea of a prison and a public exe
cution almost froze Velasco's blood.—
“Stay, stay, signor, hear me for an instant,
I conjure you—say, is there no alternative?
—if not, in mercy take this poniard, and
let your heaviest blow sink it deep in my
heart: I would bless the hand that would
strike me dead at once, rather than consign
me to such a fate as that!”
“Alas, poor whining youth! I would
not quell this fit of heroism by any sug
gestion of mine—your haughty soul would
spurn an alternative.—Farewell "
“Great God, pity me!—anything, any
thing, signor, will I agree to ; but, oh,
do not blast my honour in this world!”
“Your honour!” reechoed Maratti,
laughing
112 DE WILLENBERG.
laughing aloud; “a gamester's honour!—
well, be it so—there is but one thing, and
that compassion alone suggests—all rests
on a moment, on your answer to me—on
the single monosyllable, yes, or no, de
pends the decision—will you take an oath
of secrecy?"
Ferdinand shuddered.—“I will,” he
at length articulated. * -
“Swear to me then,” pursued Maratti,
“by your soul's immortality, you will
never disclose what I shall impart, or what
I shall require ofyou.” Almost overcome
with horror, Velasco took the oath.
“Do you further promise,” asked Ma
ratti, “to do whatever I shall demand of
you?”
“Most solemnly I do,” was the almost
inaudible reply.
46 Enough, count; I am satisfied, and
you are safe.” With stern dignity he
reseated himself, desiring Velasco to do
the same.—“You have sworn secrecy and
obedience, count Velasco,” said he, “and
* * , you
DE WILLENBERG. 113
you shall now know me—I will now tell
you who and what I am, and whence I
came—My name is Gonsalvo Maratti,
and I am a bandit chief: for a few years
my brave men and I found a refuge in
this country; in one of the largest forests
of Tuscany we discovered a rude cavern,
which being on the borders of the Medi
terranean, had formerly served as a retreat
for a gang of African pirates, who had
for a long time carried on their depreda
tions in perfect security from justice—
there we also succeeded for a while in
eluding pursuit. At length an individual
in this city, who was high in power, got
some intelligence of our abode, and pre
pared himself with a host of armed men
to seize upon us, which luckily reaching
my ears in time, compelled us to fly at
half an hour's notice, in order to save our
lives. Part of our band were for awaiting
the attack, and putting them all to the
sword; but I represented to them that
the cavern, having once become known,
WaS
114 DE WILLENBERG.
was no longer a place of safety for us;
and my advice being the more prudent,
we at once took our departure, and emi
grated to Poland. The extensive woods
with which that country abounds, afforded
every facility we could desire of securely
following the profession by which we
lived. Chance or fate very soon favoured
us altogether—in the interior of one of
the largest forests in the kingdom, and
one of the gloomiest and most thickly
planted, stood an ancient castle, falling
rapidly to decay, but on every side strongly
bulwarked by nature and art. It had been
built by a Polish nobleman in one of the
civil wars, for the safety of himself and
his family; and truly, unless he could
have erected a retreat beneath the ocean
itself, he could not have more effectually
baffled the hand of war and rapine. The
family after a while became extinct; from
some unknown cause the place was en
tirely deserted; and not long afterwards a
few straggling marauders took possession
... . . of
DE WILLENBERG. 115
of it, and by their exertions rendered it
again habitable. In our search we disco
vered it, and soon came on friendly terms
with its inmates, who, perceiving that we
were of the same description as themselves,
proposed that we should join them, and
become one united band, of which I was
to be the leader. Such an offer was ex
actly what we wished for. It was unani
mously agreed to, and the next day the
whole troop was marshalled in the castle;
ever since which time I have held the
distinguished office of their chief.
“Many are the exploits we have there
performed—many are the deeds of valour
and of death that forest has witnessed;
nay, so formidable did our arms render it,
that its name terrified the whole surround
ing country. We ever eluded pursuit;
and justice, wearied with fruitless efforts
to take us, at length left us in quiet, un
disputed possession of it.
“Having
116 DE WILLENBERG.
“Having at intervals some relaxation
from my duties, I occasionally took a
journey into other countries, assuming,
for safety, different names. Amongst
many cities which I visited, Florence at
tracted me most; and amongst my occu
pations, the gaming-table: there, signor,
I first beheld you, and struck with your
personal dignity and courage, I immedi
ately determined to enlist you under my
banners, if possible: to that end, I set my
self to ascertain who you were—with one
deep and unerring glance I read your
heart, and found you well suited to my
purpose; that purpose became the exclu
sive object of my exertions, and I have at
length accomplished it; for never yet has
any enterprise, however arduous, in my
hands failed.”
His meaning was too plain to be mis
understood, and Ferdinand saw himself
completely ensnared—“You would have
me join your troop, then, and become a
bandit?” said he,
“I would,
IDE WILLENBERG. 117
“I would, signor,” replied Maratti,
resolutely: “you are now my man—your
allegiance and services now are mine—we
want one to make up our usual number,
and you are just the man that will suit
us.”
“And would you indeed compel me to
a life so ºx
“Compel you!” interrupted the other,
passionately: “talk not to me in this
strain. Hell and furies' think you, sir,
that I gave you four hundred ducats for
nothing 2—think you that I would tamely
submit to be swindled—robbed 2 I tell
you coolly, signor Velasco, I have bought
you—mine you are, and ever shall be—
and, by Heaven ' I will compel you to
your duty, if obstinacy on your part
renders compulsion necessary.”
“I see I am yours, wholly yours,” said
Ferdinand, fearful that he might yet be
tray him to justice.
This was uttered in a tone of submission
that somewhat appeased the chief, who,
- taking
I 18 IDE WILLENBERG.
taking his hand, resumed—“Forgive me,
my friend, for speaking thus harshly; it
is not natural to me, though I am some
times too easily provoked: compulsion I
am sure is needless, so we will now look
at the bright side of the picture. You
will have no cause to regret this business,
or quarrel with a bandit's life; for from
me and from the rest you will ever meet
with brotherly kindness and affection:
nay, our profession holds out every in
ducement to you in particular. Contem
plate for a moment your present situation
—nothing can be more desperate; in Flo
rence you have no home whatever; and
to return to the cottage of the woman
whose property you have converted to a
dishonest use, would be the act of a mad
man, unless indeed you were tired of this
world, and wished to run the shortest
road to the next, which that would be.
Recollect, Velasco, the ignominious sta
tion you lately stooped to fill. Ere now
I have told you that you were born for
greater
DE WILLENBERG. 119
greater things—do you not feel that you
were 2—full of life, health, and vigour,
do you not instinctively know this?—
Does not nature spur you on to the deeds
of bravery and valour you were born for 2
Assuredly it does; and with us you will
have a wide field for the display of your
prowess: ours, signor, is a life of inde
pendence, happiness, and festivity—free
and unbridled, the laws of honour amongst
ourselves are the only laws we recognize
—all others we spurn—no puny power
holds us in subjection—no preposterous
formalities shackle our inclinations—we
are free—free as the air around us—wealth
and the world's luxuries are at our com
mand—at the termination of one day we
dream but of the pleasures that are to
come on the next. This, Velasco, is real
happiness—what more can mortal wish
for, or what more can mortal have 2"
Ferdinand was himself an enthusiast;
and so glowing a description could not fail
to
I20 IDE WILLENBERG.
to make a strong impression on him: his
warm imagination feasted on the prospect
of a life of independence—unfettered, un
controlled; and it required but little more
of Maratti's eloquence to gain his entire
acquiescence.
But this was not all he required of his
dupe, who was hurried too far to be able
to retract.—“One thing more must be
done,” said he, “and then we bid farewell
to Tuscany: we are in want of somebody
to manage our household affairs at the
castle; it is a situation easy and comfort
able, and one precisely suited to the con
dition and the years of Jacintha, your
nurse.”
“You surely cannot be serious, signor!
As reasonably might you expect the sun
to appear to your call at the hour of mid
night, as hope that Jacintha would ever
comply with such a wish.”
“Ay, ay,” said the chief, with a face
tious grin: “but I have more ways than
One
DE WILLENBERG. 121
one of obtaining what I wish for—I gene
rally find force a sovereign remedy when
others fail.”
“ Force " reiterated Velasco, almost
shocked at the thought. -
“Ay, force 1–I believe I said the word
plainly enough—force —if that is not
intelligible to you, I will tell you in other
words what I mean: that you and I shall
go to-night, seize her and carry her off,
bag and baggage, money and jewels—
now do you comprehend me?”
The idea of such an act of horrible and
lawless violence was yet appalling to Ve
lasco; but he was so entirely in the ban
dit's power now, that, in spite of all the
‘compunctious visitings of nature, he
could not choose but comply. As a more
powerful inducement, Marattirepresented
to him the absolute necessity of such a
measure, to put an end at once to the
danger he would otherwise be always .
liable to, of being apprehended for the fraud
vol. Iv. G he
122 DE WILLENBERG.
he had committed, and brought to condign
punishment; for it did not appear at all
likely that love, or partiality, would so far.
counterbalance her resentment at the dis
covery of it, as to prevent her from making
it public, and taking proper steps to bring
him to justice, Convinced of this, the
infatuated Ferdinand assented to his plan;
and every thing being arranged for it,
they sallied forth on a ramble through the
city, to pass away the intervening hours.
During the day Maratti quitted him not
for a moment; artful and treacherous
himself, he suspected others of being
equally so, and determined not to lose
sight ofhim, or leave it in his power to
betray him.
They returned not until the dusk of the
evening, and Maratti having furnished
him with money to discharge the lodging,
they set out for the cottage of Jacintha,
to execute the iniquitous project of car
rying her off. Resistance and entreaties
Were
DE WILLENBERG. 123
were alike unavailing to the unhappy
woman; in vain she reminded Ferdinand
of his obligations to her—in vain did she
weep and implore, from whose breast he
had drawn his first nourishment. Marat
ti's doctrines now appeared to have blunted
all humanity in him; and while the latter
plundered the cottage of the money, and
every portable article it contained, Ferdi
nand unfeelingly dragged her out, and
placing her in a sort of carriage they had
hired for the purpose, he seated himself
beside her. Maratti presently afterwards
jumping in, they drove off, and the fol
lowing morning beheld them, far beyond
the Italian territories.
G 2 CHAP
I24 DE WILLENBERG."
CHAPTER V.
---------------
Seldom he smiles, and smiles in such a sort,
As if he mocked himself, and scorned his spirit,
That could be moved to smile at any thing.
Sii A RESPEAEE.
A LoNG familiarity with vice had at
length totally seared Velasco's heartagainst
every inroad of virtue; remorseless and
unpitying, he beheld Jacintha's tears—un
moved, heard her bitter reproaches—re
proaches which he well deserved; without
a blush he communicated to her the
whole transaction at the gaming-table, tell
ing her, to add to the miseries of her si
tuation, that they were entirely the con
sequences of his villainy. Of this it was
needless to inform her, for she well knew
what he was capable of, and seeing that
* * * ** - * * he
DE WILLENBERG. 125
he was hardened against all remonstrance,
she at length silently resigned herself to
her inevitable fate, ignorant yet what it
might be, for they had not even told her
whither they were conveying her.
Their former confidence was fully re
stored between Maratti and Velasco on
the journey, which they found as pleasant
as expeditious travelling and good living .
could render it.
. In a few days they reached the forest,
whose frightful gloom was well calculated
to excite the superstitious fears of Jacin
tha, whom they now informed of the pur
pose for which they had brought her, and
the office she was destined to fill.
This was a lot comparatively happy to
what she had dreaded; she had, ere their
arrival, given herself up for lost, and pre
pared for death, for from the conversa
tion, she was at no loss to know what the
G 3 signor
126 DE WILLENBERG,
signor Maratti was; and having her life
spared almost reconciled her to the con
viction, that she must spend it in the
service of a set of outlawed banditti, who,
if ever they came to punishment, would
probably involve her in their fate.
In the whole gang there was something
terrifie and horrible to her; the savage
manners and features of some, and the
coarse and brutal jests of others, were
equally formidable to her, and her terrors
soon made her an object of malignant de
rision to all of them—terrors which met
nothing that could diminish them; on the
contrary, every part of this extensive old
ruin, which she had occasion to venture
into, presented something to augment
them: beyond the inhabited part of the
castle nothing could induce her to go,
notwithstanding her curiosity to explore
the long picture galleries and dark cham
bers, where dwelt such solemn silence,
mystery, and death.
- Her
DE WILLENBERG. 127
Her life there seldom afforded her an
hour's tranquillity; when the banditti were
out on their lawless excursions, she was
left completely alone in those late haunts
of dissipation and guilt, the mementoes of
which the courage of the most dauntless
might have shrunk from beholding; and
when they were at home, she was exposed
to horrors still more appalling—their lan
guage and their deeds.
The return of their chief with Velasco
was greeted with carousals of every de
cription; they had apparently been in ex
pectation of the latter, from which circum
stance it was obvious that Maratti had
long had in view this acquisition to their
strength and formidable numbers.
The exercise of travelling had opened
Ferdinand's wound afresh, and soon after
his arrival at the castle, an unrestrained
indulgence in wine and feasting threw
him into a serious fit of illness, which ex
G 4 cited
128 DE WILLENBERG.
cited apprehensions of its terminating fa
tally. -
Jacintha, now more strongly than ever,
evinced the real goodness of her heart, in
her unwearied attention to her patient;
with all the care and assiduity of a fond
mother, she watched over him through the
whole progress of his disorder, and at the
expiration of a week, she thought herself
amply rewarded by his recovery.
The ungrateful Velasco was of the same
opinion, and offered her no other; when
he was able to quit his bed, he forgot all
her kindnesses, and treated her in the same
unfeeling manner that the others did.
Ferdinand's present life was exactly
congenial to his taste and his capacity;
scenes of profane and boisterous revelry at
home, and rapine and bloodshed abroad,
marked every alternate day, and in such
scenes he was always a distinguished per
- former;
DE WILLENEER G. 129
former; in deeds of personal courage, how
ever desperate, his heart panted for cele
brity, for his arm was strong and his spirit
dauntless, and that celebrity he was not
long in obtaining: in all their undertak
ings he signalized himself by his extraor
dinary powers; in their attacks he was ever
the first to advance, and the last to retreat,
and generally bore off the valuable booty
in complete triumph; rising daily in the
estimation of his dreadful and sanguinary
associates, he was soon at the pinnacle of
all that desperation and wickedness in
mortal can arrive at; the bravest amongst
them, he was also the object of their most.
enthusiastic praises and admiration; to his
highest advancement there was but one
step remaining. Now then was he the
hero he had been designed for—this was
the renown Maratti had foretold—these
praises were the laurels with which he was
to be crowned—these murderous achieve
ments the ones that were to render his
G 5. Ilame
130 DE WILLENBERG.
name immortal—higher than this ambition
scarce could soar.
Jealous of his superiority, Maratti at
length perceiving himself thus eclipsed,
conceived an implacable enmity towards
him, which grew to such a height in the
venom of his black heart, that but for the
dread of suspicion and detection from the
band, he would, by poison or the dagger,
have cut off the one he had himself seduced
thither; but he foresaw not how soon they
were to part for ever.
A party of them, headed by the signor,
having one day attacked some wealthy
travellers, Maratti, stimulated by madden
ing envy towards Velasco, and eager for
a speedy victory, rushed on his opponents
precipitately and without discretion; im
petuosity defeated the aim of his random
blows, the assaulted party became the
victors, and he fell and expired covered
with wounds.
Warned
DE WILLENBERG. 131
Warned by his fate, and seeing that
they would otherwise be inevitably over
powered, the “better part of valour" seem
ed the wiser; and the rest, whom Velasco
had not this day accompanied to rouse
them to fresh exertions, made a precipitate
retreat into the depths of the forest, just
time enough to evade the pursuit of an
armed force that had rushed after them :
from the most imminent danger of being
taken, they at length completely effected
their escape, but in doing so they were
obliged to leave behind them the body of
their unfortunate chief, as any attempt to
gain possession of it would have been
fatal to them. On the succeeding day it
was gone, and what became of it they
never afterwards learned. -
Piqued at their partiality to Velasco,
Maratti had lately betrayed so much ill
humour as to render himself obnoxious to
several of the gang, who would willingly
have removed him, and elected Ferdinand
G 6 in
I32 DE WILLENBERG.
in his place; that wish, however, they had
not until now ventured to express; but
the opportunity they had so long desired
was arrived, and they lost no time ere they
took advantage of it.
As soon as it was announced to them
all that Maratti was no more, their choice
was unanimously fixed upon Velasco—a
choice which he had for some time secret
ly aspired to. Being all assembled in the
hall, the oaths of fidelity were mutually
taken, and Ferdinand was duly appointed
to be their chief. Maratti had been a man
of undoubted bravery, but none regretted
his death, and he was very soon forgotten .
altogether.
Under the command of their new leader,
their exploits became daily more bloody,
and their attacks more numerous, more,
successful, and at a greater distance from
the castle; they seemed indeed not only
to set justice totally at defiance, but to,
- OVeraWQ
DE WILLENBERG, 133
overawe it from further attempts upon
them; insomuch that Velasco at length.
feared not to ride through parts of the
neighbourhood in the open day, and unac
companied.
In one of those excursions he met the
companion of his youth, Arnold, his foster
brother; he was still in the service of
prince Leopold, who had returned from
Germany to his father's court, and they
recognized each other with mutual satis
faction; Arnold, because he was really at
tached to Ferdinand, and the latter, be
cause it afforded him an opportunity of
making some communications to Leopold,
whom he had not seen for many months.
The passion for gaming was still a ruling
one with Ferdinand, who made it his
principal domestic amusement; he had at
various times lost considerable sums of
money amongst the gang, by which his
debts of honour accumulated to such a
- - height,
134, DE WILLENBERG,
height, that even the fruits of his daily
expeditions abroad kept not pace with
them. The one who recoiled not from
guilt of the most atrocious nature, dreaded
the odium that he should incur from leav
ing such debts as these unpaid ; and how
to avoid it he knew not, until it occurred
to him that Leopold, who had professed
the warmest friendship for him, and on
whom he thought consanguinity gave him
a claim, would generously assist him, from
the ample fortune he possessed; he was no
stranger to the vices or the weaknesses of
the duke's character, and he fancied, if
friendship should not, that the latter would
lead him to do this much for one still more
nearly allied to him in principle than in
birth.
Taking the astonished Arnold aside,
he, after some hesitation, informed him.
what was his present mode of life, but
carefully concealed the guilty circumstan
ces that had brought him to it.
The
DE WILLENBERG. 135
The first question that suggested itself
to Arnold was relative to his mother, from
whom he had, of course, never heard since
his arrival at Warsaw, although he had
addressed several letters to Tuscany.
Alarmed at not having received an answer
to any of them, he had obtained the duke's
permission to visit his native country, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether this
beloved parent was still in existence; for,
with all his faults, he affectionately loved
his mother, who indeed had well deserved
that affection, and was on the eve of de
parture thither, when he thus unexpected
ly encountered Velasco.
Rejoiced at an opportunity of hearing
something of her, he demanded of the
chief, how, and in what circumstances, he
had left her, and whether she yet lived in
her usual cottage near Florence? Ferdi
nand was vexed at his interrogatories, for
they were such as he durst not answer
with truth. He who would undauntedly
have
136. DE WILLENBERG, .
have faced a legion of armed men, now
shrunk from the idea of the furious glance.
of a son, on hearing of the cruelty and
outrage that had been practised towards
his mother; even from this lowly-born.
peasant, the proud Velasco feared the
power that ever nerves the arm in a just
cause, and he did not venture to brave it.
A wish to explain to him at once the
business for which he had detained him,.
afforded him a plea for answering those
questions evasively.—“I saw your mother
not long since,” said he; “she was then.
living and well: but we will talk of her
some other time—I have now a few im
portant inquiries to make of you; and first
tell me, has the prince, your master, lately
mentioned my name, or anywhere ad
dressed a letter to me? My quitting Tus
cany necessarily interrupted our corres
pondence, though I have twice visited
that country since, and each time found
, some intelligence from him.” -
- “Frequently,
DE WILLENBERG. 137
“Frequently, count, he has spoken of
you: surprised at receiving no reply to his
numerous letters, since our quitting Ger
many he has given up writing to you,
thinking you had gone abroad, or were
perhaps no more; his attention is now prin
cipally engrossed by the lingering illness
of the king, his father, whose complaint,
a consumption, it is feared, will very
shortly terminate his reign; the hopes of
the nation are centered in the prince royal,
the amiable Augustus, who must, of
course, soon ascend the throne, and from
whom much is expected. Prince Leopold
has also experienced the royal favour in
being created duke of Silesia, and appoint
ed commander of the guards—an office at
tended with equal dignity and emolu
ment: the king too has lately—”
“A truce with the king!” interrupted
the impatient Ferdinand; “Leopold, duke
of Silesia, you say, possesses an ample for
tune?”
“Ay, count Velasco, a fortune well
suited
138 DE WILLENBERG.
suited to a prince, and one who knows
how to spend it generously.” -
“He is liberal in the disposal of it
then 2° e
“Never was man more so—I am fed,
clothed,and paid sumptuously—my trifling
services are well rewarded.”
This promised fair to the wily chief, who
smilingly observed—“ I wish somebody
would pay me for my services, Arnold, or
that his highness had any thing to do in
my way; for, to speak the truth, I am just
about as poor as he is rich: you say he is
commander of the guards, and, in faith, if
he wants one who can fire the harquebuss,
or wield the sword to perfection, I am his
man.”
“Good, my lord,” replied Arnold, smil
ing equally, “I could get a job, as it is,
for any man whose conscience was as
scarce a commodity with him as his
money.”
“Name it,” cried Ferdinand eagerly. .
“Nay, count Velasco, I was not seri
ous,”
DE WILLENBERG. 139
ous,” said Arnold, his features assuming a
profound gravity, and angry with himself
for having even appeared to jest.—“You
say, it is true, you are a bandit chief, and
I little thought it would come to this with
you; but I trust you are not yet a villain.”
“Psha! away with your starched mora
lity,” answered Velasco, still forcing him
self to smile, “and tell me at once what
you meant by this job, as you term it; it
must truly be a desperate one, if I cannot
undertake it.”
“It would be a desperate one, count,
for this is the sum-total of the business;
the duke has taken a mortal hatred to a
young officer named De Willenberg, and
no longer ago than yesterday, he swore
he would give any man ten thousand
crowns who would shoot the said De Wil
lenberg through the head.”
Much less than the half of ten thousand
crowns would have tempted Velasco to
commit this horrible deed, but Arnold, he
SaWa
140 DE WILLENBERG.
f
saw, had still sufficient principle to make
him revolt from the thought of murder;
and though he did not despair of winning
him at last to his purpose, he thought it
best to dissemble for the present.
In Arnold's composition, principle was
indeed ever a flexible material; Leopold
had twisted it, and made it subservient to
all his ends, good and bad, and it requir
ed now but one effort to break it altoge
ther. -
“I was no more serious than yourself,
my friend,” said Velasco, trying to con
ciliate him, “and am as little in need of
money as the duke—let this prove it to
you; nevertheless I wish to see his high
ness after so long a separation, and if that
wish is reciprocal, tell him to meet me
here, on the borders of the forest, this day
week, and at the same hour, unattended.
I need, hardly caution you, Arnold, to
breathe nothing of this interview to mor,
tal.
* *
DE WILLENBERG. 141
tal else; accept some slight remuneration
for your trouble—farewell!”
As he said this, he put some pieces of
gold into his hand, and motioning to him
to be gone, he returned to the castle, to
consider at his leisure by what means he
could best take advantage of the genero
sity or the weakness of Leopold.
Arnold deliverd his message to the duke,
and related the whole conversation that
had passed between them, not aware of
the fatal impression it would make upon
his highness, who had too deep a part to
play, to neglect obeying Velasco's wish.
About this time De Willenberg was
getting into high favour with the neigh
bouring nobility, and as we have before
shewn, according as he rose in theirs, he
sunk in that of the duke, who would
really, as Arnold said, have well rewarded
any one for putting an end to him, so
powerful
I42 DE WILLENBERG.
powerful was the ascendancy that envy
and malignity had gained over his vitiated
mind; his disgrace and ruin he had in
contemplation, cost what it might, or how
ever difficult might be its accomplishment.
One project at length occurred, to which
he exclusively directed his thoughts, and
which he believed, now that he might
gain the co-operation of Velasco, bid fair
to crown his devilish wishes with perfect
SūCCCSS,
He was punctual to the appointed time
and place of meeting his colleague, and
found the latter equally so; at the first in
terview he knew it would be indiscreet, if
not dangerous, to throw out a hint of the
heinous object he had in view, lest it
might not meet with Velasco's entire con
currence; a doubt of this nature, however,
was too favourable to Ferdinand's charae
ter to last long. The duke, even by his
cautious observations, easily perceived that
he was not one to be startled at the men
tion
DE WILLENBERG. 143
tion of a crime, nor awed from the per
petration of it, when urged on by any
thing in guilt that could gratify his pas
sions.
Of those passions he had long ere now
discovered the master-spring; it was a
spring that required to be skilfully touch
ed, and Leopold happily possessed the
knack of doing so.
Money was the god of Ferdinand's ido
latry; to it he had sacrificed almost all the
noblest attributes of man; his soul alone
yet remained unsold, and even that was
the depraved wretch ready to dispose of
to the first who should propose conditions
for it.
But the sacrifice of Velasco's body and
soul was immaterial to Leopold, when by
that he could compass his own wicked
ends. Of friendship for this unfortunate
dupe he was incapable; he viewed him but
aS
144 DE WILLENBERG,
as the one doomed to execute his dreadful
schemes, and consequences to him he
totally disregarded; gratitude was alike
blotted out, as superfluous and unmerited,
when gold could purchase his services,
however diabolical the purpose to which
they were to be perverted.
At parting, he presented him with a
large sum, with these memorable words—
“Receive this, Velasco, not as a boon to
your necessities, but as a pledge of my
friendship for you—as a proof of what I
would do for you; should I ever stand in
need of your assistance, I know it will be
as liberally tendered, and your friendship
as unequivocally proved.”
“Doubt it not,” said Ferdinand, per
fectly comprehending the drift of his libe
rality: those good offices were now be
spoke, and he anticipated what they were
to be, while he prepared for a visit to one
of his old haunts in Tuscany, where he
told Leopold it was probable he should
remain
DE WILLENIBERG. I45
remain for three or four months, after
which they promised to see each other
again.
Shortly after this period, the lingering
malady of the sovereign wore itself out,
and he fell a victim, in the prime of life,
to that most baneful of all human dis
orders, consumption.
The crown necessarily devolved to his
elder son, Augustus, who was one of the
most popular princes of the age. He en
tered on his reign at a time that would
have been to many the most inauspicious,
for his dominions throughout were in a
state of warfare and distraction; invasion
and hostility daily poured their numbers
into his unfortunate kingdom, whose fate
seemed to hang on the policy and clever
ness of an individual.
Augustus had been schooled in the arts
of war, and his abilities justified the san
WOL. IV. H guine
146 DE WILLENBERG.
guine hopes of his people, in wresting once
more their rights and liberties from usur
pation. -
The struggle was of long continuance,
bravely and victoriously maintained, and
at its cessation the monarch resumed the
other duties of his royal station, amidst
their fervent plaudits and their love.
Leopold had not yet stripped the well
earned laurels from his brow, when thorns
more sharp than the dagger's point, the
thorns of jealousy and envy, more venom
ous than the serpent's sting, began to rankle
in his bosom afresh; his thoughts again
were anarchy, war and bloodshed were at
his heart, not against the usurpers of a
nation's rights, but against an innocent
individual, whom he deemed an invader
on his own, De Willenberg, whose visit
to Herman Castle took place about this
period, and increased Leopold's rancour
into actual hatred, terrible and implacable.
The
DE WILLENBERG. 147
The reader is aware of the passion with
which our heroine inspired this unprin
cipled man, who, to gratify any passion,
left no means untried; he became a slave
to the fascinations of Victoria—fascinations
which had enthralled so many others, and
he vowed to make her his wife, if mortal
means could do so. But ere he could ac
complish this, De Willenberg, he knew,
must be removed; on him her affections
were firmly fixed, and while he lived, he
would be an insuperable barrier to his
hopes. In this dilemma the promised aid
of Ferdinand the bandit occurred to him,
and he no sooner thought of it, than he
resolved to take advantage of it, for no
thing could be more suitable.
Velasco must now have returned from
Tuscany, and accordingly he repaired to
the edge of the forest, in search of him,
on the ensuing day. Another week, how
ever, passed over before he saw him, and
then the whole tremendous plot was ar.
- H 2 ranged
-
148 DE WILLENBERG.
ranged between them; the chief end of it
was De Willenberg's death, for there was
no other way of getting completely rid of
him; and neither the one shuddered at
proposing, nor the other at agreeing to it;
the name of murder was a sound too fa
miliar to the duke's ear to shock him, and
the deed itself too much so to Velasco, to
be viewed but with indifference.
The first part of this horribly-nefarious
business was forthwith begun; to bring
about a lasting breach between Theodore
and his father was to be the prelude, and
this a letter which, Leopold wrote to the
latter in his son's name effectually did; its
consequences we have already detailed—
the unhappy victim of it was disinherited;
wrapt, as he hoped, in perfect security
from suspicion, the duke foresaw what
would follow, and hastened to prepare his
coadjutor for it, and fix with him all that
was to be done.
- It
IXE WILLENBERG, 149
It was now necessary to purchase Ar
nold entirely over to their plot, if ample
bribery and a great man's favour could do
it; and what will such things not do?—
bribery and the favour of greatness!—we
are daily witnesses how few withstand
these temptations, and Arnold possessed
as much frailty, and as little virtue and
integrity, as many of his betters.
As he was to be an actor in the in
tended tragedy, it was no less necessary
to introduce him to the scene of action—
the bandit's castle. The requisite precau
tions being taken to ensure secrecy on his
part, he was brought thither, and there
beheld his mother—there heard the story
of Ferdinand's villainy and ingratitude to
the one who had nursed him, and whose
friendly and hospitable roof had sheltered
him from poverty.
With equal horror Jacintha heard of the
conspiracy against De Willenberg, and as
H 3 she
150 DE WILLENBERG.
she hung in tears upon her son's neck, she
implored him to abjure a deed so foul, so
damning—and she implored not in vain.
The voice of a mother found its way to his
heart amidst all its depravity—the voice
of that mother, whose injuries demanded
atonement, roused all his indignation
against Velasco, and he vowed that the
blow should revert upon him which was
intended for another; he had ever been
partial to De Willenberg, and even though
he had gone thus far in guilt, yet it was
not too late to retract.
His mother's tears had reclaimed him—
had recalled humanity and religion to his
bosom; Virtue, after being so long de
throned, resumed her empire there, and
he promised to save the unconscious Theo
dore from the machinations that were in
preparation against him: to do this, how
ever, required the deepest policy, for
should he now betray even the mere sha
dow of compunction, all would be hopeless;
it
DE WILLENBERG. 151
it was therefore expedient to play almost
to the end the character allotted to him;
his office was to remain stationed in the
forest with the banditti, in order to point
out their victim to them, when unlucky
fate should guide him towards them.
As failure was still possible, it was sug
gested, that to prevent the chance of a
consequent discovery, Arnold should con
ceal his features by a mask, and wear it
till all was over. Thus prepared, Velasco
and his confederates awaited the event,
which Leopold's letter accelerated. De
Willenberg'sjourney home gave the wish
ed-for opportunity, and it was not ne
glected.
On the evening of the party at Zersk,
when the duke had withdrawn after din
ner, he wrote the warning letter, whose
alarming contents deceived Theodore, and
betrayed him into the hands of the ban
ditti; this letter Arnold, with whom he
H 4 (the
152 DE WILLENBERG.
* (the duke) had constant communication,
got conveyed to him; and to prevent any
unfavourable surmises afterwards, Leopold
regarding Theodore's death as now certain,
ordered him to hire somebody in the
neighbourhood of the forest, to proclaim
that he had been assassinated there by the
banditti.
So far Arnold had faithfully performed
the duties for which he had been paid,
but more important ones yet remained—
to save De Willenberg's life, and avenge
his mother's wrongs.
Heaven's awful judgment on the guilty
Pierre, and the effects of the lightning upon
himself, suspended for a while his laudable
purposes; but on recovering from the in
sensibility into which it had thrown him,
his first inquiry was for De Willenberg,
apprehensive that he might have already
fallen; he was yet in such a state of debi
lity as to be unable to quit his bed, and
1 In
DE WILLENBERG. 153
in no condition to oppose their murderous
plans at present, he almost despaired of
being able to do so at all, and gave De
Willenberg up for lost.
Jacintha was now as much interested for
the latter as her son was, and quitting her
patient for a while, when he had revived,
she hastened to see what was passing
below; as she descended, she overheard the
voice of Lodovico in the hall; this was a
wretch who, if it was possible to detest
one of the gang more than the rest, was
an object of the most deep-rooted aversion
and disgust to her; he was a villain by na
ture, cruel, vindictive, diabolically wicked,
and withal of a cowardly dastard spirit,
which shrunk from every thing like dan
ger to himself—weak and fearful even to
the most absurd degree of superstition;
and well may a guilty conscience ever be
so—a breath which he considered super
natural would have shaken his soul from
the most determined purpose, while the
H 5 awful
154 DE WILLENBERG.
awful impression remained. Jacintha be
ing aware of this, now took advantage of
it, and listening to the conversation be
tween him and De Willenberg, it occurred
to her that by alarming him, she might at
the same time partly convey a warning to
the latter.
A recess at one end of the hall contained
a door of painted canvas, through which
every sound was swelled into the most
dismal echo; stationing herself there, she
could distinguish all that was said within,
and hers was the voice that had so appal
led them when speaking of the bed in the
turret, the bed that was to have been fatal
to Theodore.
As she entered the hall, she discovered
that the work of death was commencing;
Lodovico at that moment held to De
Willenberg's lips a cup of wine, which
contained a powerful narcotic; he was to
be thus rendered insensible, incapable of
resistance,
IDE WILLENBERG. 155
resistance, borne to the turret, and mur
dered.
With extraordinary promptitude and
presence of mind she rushed forward, for
she was well acquainted with all their
hellish schemes; it seemed as if Heaven
had directed her thither to baffle that one,
and by an apparent accident she effectually
did so.
Having taken the first step towards his
preservation, she returned to Arnold's
apartment, considering, as she slowly bent
her steps thither, what else could be done
to save him, for he had now, by order of
Velasco, been conducted to the turret.
Ere she reached it, her attention was ar
rested by a loud and furious quarrel in the
room where the banditti were carousing;
the most horrible oaths and execrations
every moment burst from the outrageous
opponents, whose voices she recognized as
H 6 those
156 DE WILLENBERG.
those of Velasco and Lodovico; but what
the subject of their dispute was, she could
not ascertain; the storm grew more and .
more frightful and boisterous, till, with a
dreadful curse, Lodovico dashed open the
door, and deadly pale with passion, flew
down a staircase at one end of the gallery
in which Jacintha stood, vowing venge
ance as he precipitately rushed along.
Terrified, she entered Arnold's chamber,
and told him what she had seen and heard.
Things now were desperate; Theodore
was enclosed in the very room where they
knew no assistance, by common means,
could possibly reach him. One terrible
alternative alone remained, and even that
might fail; but terrible as it was, it must
be resorted to, as the sole chance of saving
him; it was to set fire to the castle in one
of the uninhabited parts of it, and by
alarming the banditti for their own lives,
give him an opportunity of escaping in the
general confusion that would ensue. Of
this
DE WILLENBERG. 157
this plan he informed his mother, and she
was reluctantly compelled to assent to it.
He had, in the interim, committed to
paper many of the particulars of this atro
cious conspiracy, thinking it might be es
sential hereafter to De Willenberg to know
them. He had scarcely finished, when
Lodovico rushed in—exultation was in his
wild countenance and in his voice—his
mouth was distended with demoniac
laughter.—“Now, now!” he roared, “now
for the vengeance of death and destruc
tion now to sink them all to perdition!
I have set fire to the whole building, and
every soul of them falls; not one—not a
single one can escape the fate that I have
doomed them to—not even their victim,
for they are with him: hah, hah revenge
is mine! I will fly and tell it through the
world !”
Like a maniac he darted out, or rather
like the arch fiend, Lucifer, shouting, in
horrid
158 DE WILLENBERG.
horrid triumph, “revenge!” as he flung
open, with the noise of thunder, every
door that opposed him, and effected his
escape into the forest.
a
A flash of lightning in the late storm
had struck one of the turrets, and Lodo
vico having placed some burning faggots
against the wood-work of the other, both
were by this time in a blaze too violent
for any exertions to extinguish.
At this frightful and alarming crisis, it
seemed as if Heaven had armed Arnold
with superhuman strength and resolu
tion; he rushed from his bed, and implor
ing his mother instantly to fly and save
herself, he hastened to the vault under De
Willenberg's chamber, directed to it by
the loud clashing of arms and the ferocious
voices of the murderers, and providentially
arrived in time to rescue their intended
victim.
Aware
DE WILLENBETRG. 159
Aware that to remain in Poland after
this would be to risk his own life, Arnold
had previously arranged with his mother,
that in case of escape they should return
to their native country; for it was too
much to be feared, that should the duke
hear of one of the witnesses of his guilt
being thus at large, he would, for his secu
rity, take the most effectual means of si
lencing him for ever.
He had, in Leopold's service, accumu
lated a sum fully adequate to their future
support, and with gratitude to Heaven for
being allowed to return to spend the rest
of their days in the place that gave them
birth, after parting from De Willenberg,
they repaired to an inn at some leagues
distance, whence, on the following day,
they departed for Tuscany.
CHAP
160 DE WILLENBERG.
CHAPTER VI.
-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º-º
Et si le sort contre elle à ma haine se joint,
Je saurai profiter de cette intelligence,
Pour ne pas pleurer seule, et mourir sans vengeance.
Racise.
- - - - - -- - - - - - -
Bloody instructions, which being taught, return,
To plague th' inventor. SHAKESPEAR E.
THE triumph of the wicked Constantia
was now almost complete; the cruel sen
tence passed on the abbess was communi
cated to her, and she was told at the same
time that she and Garcia were at liberty
to return to the convent. Her revenge,
however, had not yet quite satiated itself,
which she determined it should do, ere her
departure, in an interview with Stephania.
Under pretence of bidding that unhappy
WOIYlan
DE WILLENBERG. 161
woman farewell, she obtained the cardi
mal's permission to visit her in her cell,
where she found her on her knees, pre
paring in the most solemn manner for
death.
At sight of her, the horrorized abbess
shrank back, as she would have recoiled
from Satan, had he come to claim her.—
“Hence hence thou fell destroyer"
said she, waving her from her. “Art thou
come, like the serpent who first robbed
mankind of innocence, to poison my last
moments by thy detested presence?—
Away! away ! I dare not pronounce the
name of the Divinity whilst thou art here
—it is hell to be near thee; go! go from
my sight for ever!”
For a few minutes Constantia neither
spoke nor moved, but stood indeed like
the great enemy of mankind, glutting her
thoughts on crime, desolation, and de
struction; her eyes, which looked like
- balls
162 DE WILLENBERG.
balls of fire, were intently fastened on her,
and, as if she would have destroyed her
soul as well as her body, she mocked her
devotion with a loud and horrid laugh.
“At prayers, deluded fool!” said she,
“ and what would you pray for?—for
heaven, forsooth !—go to, go to; let those
who have served Heaven hope reward
from it—you will have yours elsewhere.”
“Begone!” again said the abbess, shud
dering as she shrunk still farther from
her.
“Ay, canting hypocrite!” resumed the
nun, “tremble at the sight of me; for
though I am not Lucifer, you shall know
who I am ere yet we part—you shall know
who and what brought you to this. My
name is Maddeline de Klopstock; disho
nour made me assume,another—dishonour
drove me from the world, and robbed me
of all life's enjoyments. Mark me, wo
man; that dishonour was heaped upon
me by your brother—ay, by Eugene, your
infamous, perjured, self-damned brother.
From
DE WILLENBERG. 163
From that hour, the hour that spread hor
ror and desolation round me, my soul
within me thirsted for revenge, great and
ample as his crime, direful as hell could
wish—and it is mine; to Heaven and to
hell I sent my daily prayer for this, and,
pitying my wrongs, they heard me—may,
look not thus incredulous or astounded;
full well I know you, Stephania Gesnel–
full well I knew your father, mother, bro
ther. Accursed for ever be the day that
first I saw Eugene! He it was who made
me what I am—a wretch; his arts lured
me to disgrace—he tempted, ruined, and
fled me. But this is not all. I had prof.
fered my hand to another; that other
spurned me—ay, like a noxious weed, he
spurned me—left me to be pitied by my
friends, to be sneered at by the world, or
to be the prey of some vile seducer—he
abandoned me to ruin, and soon it over
took me. The serpent Eugene wound
round me—wound himself to my very
heart; there he planted his deadliest sting;
then,
164 DE WILLENBERG,
then, darting for ever from the power of
the one whose happiness he had poisoned,
whose fair fame he had blasted, he left me
even to die, should death in pity come to
close my woes. Oh! think you all these
were to be borne unrevenged?—No; if
they thought so, they knew not Madde
line. I have said the villain Eugene fled;
the baron and baroness too escaped my
fury; but Heaven in recompence left you,
Stephania—full exposed, head and front, to
the frightful storm; raging, terrible, it fell
upon you. But still there is another—
Theodore de Willenberg, the one who re
jected me; and another—the one for whom
he did so—the sorceress Victoria; she
was the pretended Clara de Manzilla—his
sister, forsooth !—Fatal was the hour that
brought them to my sight! They suspected
me not, but I knew them, and what they
had done to me. I have destroyed them.
Sweet, sweet and glorious is my revenge!
Fiend! image of the demon who brought
destruction, shame, and ignominy upon
me!
DF: WILLENBERG. 165
º
me! I have hurled ruin and death upon
your head; and now vengeance is satisfied
–glutted even to satiety; the block, in
the black trappings of death, is ready to
drink your blood, and the executioner
with a single blow to send you to the
grave, a headless trunk. Thus then I
leave you,” and with another peal of laugh
ter more awfully horrid than the first, she
vanished. -
Father Raymond the confessor had just
quitted the penitent Stephania, and left
her in that tranquil state when the linger
ing soul has made its peace with Heaven,
and waits but for its summons. To the
ear of that holy man she had poured out
all her faults, and repentance and prayer
had prepared her to die with Christian
firmness, which not even the inhuman
exultation of Constantia could shake; she
desired now but death, to transfer her spi
rit from a world she despised, and anxious
ly she counted the tedious hours that
brought
I66 DE WILLENBERG.
brought it nearer to her. But it was now
at hand; she had petitioned that her ex
ecution might take place three hours be
fore the first-mentioned time, and nine
o'clock was therefore the hour appointed
by the cardinal for her to suffer.
A little after Constantia left her, the
clock sounded a quarter before nine, and,
presently the door of her cell was thrown
open to admit the officials, the harbingers
of her fate, who came to conduct her to
the block. The dismal sound of a bell
echoed sullenly through the prison, which,
together with the hollow voices of those
that were preparing to attend the awful
ceremony, terrified her for a moment, but
quickly recovering, she accompanied them
with a firm step. The whole face of the
heavens was enveloped in darkness, but
around the place of execution innumerable
torches threw a glare so powerful, that it
was with difficulty the eye could support
it. A long arcade brought them to the
- street,
.*
DE WILLENBERG. 167
street, where stood the platform, arrayed
in solemn and funereal hues. With un
shrinking fortitude the abbess viewed the
preparations, and then her eye ran for an
instant over the immense multitude out
side the railings, assembled to witness her
decapitation: nothing like fear seemed to
agitate her.
The voices of two of the priests chanting
the execution anthem immediately recalled
her attention, and, preceded by the con
fessor, she ascended the scaffold. Her
countenance was perfectly serene—her
thoughts appeared to rest on Heaven
alone, and she joined with profound devo
tion in the conclusion of the anthem. As
it ceased, the clock struck nine—it was
the signal for death. She breathed forth
a short prayer, then baring her neck, she
meekly inclined her head, and with one
sure blow the executioner severed it from
her body. -
Meantime
168 DE WILLENBERG.
Meantime the punishment due to the
crimes of the ill-starred Constantia was
rapidly approaching; unconscious of its
being so near, she had unwarily lingered
to hear that Stephania was no more; of
this she was informed by one of the offi
cials. Not a shadow of remorse was vi
sible in her demoniac visage, but again
shrieking out a wild laugh—“My soul,
my frantic soul, be satisfied " she ex
claimed. “Let me now depart,” conti
nued she, addressing the official beside
her.
“It is forbidden,” cried one of the fa
miliars, just then emerging from an oppo
site door; “you go not hence.”
“Who dares forbid it?” she imperiously
demanded.
“The cardinal Willeimar,” replied the
familiar. “His eminence has commanded
that this woman,” pointing to Garcia,
“ and you, be instantly brought before
their holy court.”
Her
DE WILLENBERG. 169
Her mind misgave her that she was not
yet quite safe, though what to fear she
knew not; treachery it could not be, for
the only one likely to betray her was
Garcia, her accomplice, and she was by
her side. Trembling with suspense, she
attended the familiar to the hall of judg
ment, followed by Garcia, and there found
that she was indeed betrayed. Two sol
diers stood at the foot of the table—they
were the sentinels she had bribed at the
convent, and one of them, to her amaze
ment and horror, whom she had supposed
killed by De Willenberg. She stood aghast,
conscious that her guilt was divulged and
her doom certain, and fixed on the senti
nels a look of burning rage, as if with the
fire that flashed from her eyes she would
have consumed them.
“Know ye these men, perjured crimi.
nals?” asked the cardinal. -
“Execrable devils' ye have betrayed .
me!” she furiously screamed: her figure
WOL. IV. I and
170 DE WILLENBERG.
and face were those of a fiend. She flew
towards them, and drawing a stiletto from
the scabbard of one of them, she would
have sheathed it in both their hearts, had
not her arm been seized. -
“Now, thrice perjured, thrice accursed”
cried the cardinal, “there is nought but
hell awaits you—you are self-condemned:
a few words, and you shall know your
fate. And you, most abominable reptile
in human shape!” said he, turning to the
half-senseless Garcia—“ you who have
joined with that abandoned wretch in
murdering the superior of your convent—
as you have lived with her in iniquity, so
shall you die with her in torments.”
“ Confess your crimes, woman,” said
one of the priests, addressing Constantia.
“To you, ye mumbling hypocrites, I
will confess nothing,” she scornfully re
plied. “Ye have pronounced me guilty;
more ye cannot do than burn or behead
me; so to your worst.”
“Your daring will soon meet its re
- ward,”
DE WILLENBERG. 171
ward,” said the priest. “Are you willing
to confess?” he demanded of Garcia.
“I am not,” resolutely returned the
other, following the example of the hard
ened nun—“I have nothing to confess.”
“Away with them both to the rack in
stantly " said the cardinal to one of the
officials.
They heard the order, and, with looks
of contemptuous defiance, suffered them
selves to be led to it, while the sentinels
repeated the charges against them. .
The one whom De Willenberg had
wounded was carried, apparently lifeless,
to a sort of hospital in the village, where,
on examination, the medical attendant
found that animation was not wholly ex
tinct; but, from his exhausted state, little
hope could be entertained of his recovery.
He had bled profusely, but some powerful
stimulants being poured into his mouth,
the symptoms of life became less and less
I 2 equivocal;
I72 DE WILLENBERG.
equivocal; his respiration gradually grew
stronger, and at length he was able to
speak. A haggard wildness was in his
countenance, and it was some time ere he
recollected what had reduced him to such
a situation; but Constantia and her plot
had made too forcible an impression on
him to be long forgotten—he remembered
her with horror, both at her own wicked
ness, and the almost fatal effect of it upon
himself; his life had nearly been, nay,
still might be, a sacrifice to her iniquitous
thirst for vengeance.
This consideration roused him almost
to madness; the agony of his wound was
excruciating, and he heaped upon her, and
upon the one who had inflicted it, the
direst maledictions his bad heart prompt
ed. Excessive rage would have hurried
him to an end, had not those about him,
taking all possible precautions for his re
covery, recommended every restraint up
on his passions, and administered a strong
anodyne,
DE WILLENEERG. 173
*
anodyne, to aid their counsel in tranquil
lizing him; but the subject of his ravings
had not passed unnoticed; he had impli
cated one of the nuns in the dreadful
transaction at the monastery; this could
not be the fantasy of a disordered imagi
nation, and they therefore thought it right
to have it strictly investigated.
Apprehensive that all their exertions
could not save him, they sent, while he
slept, for a monk, to be ready to receive
his confession when he should awake, and
to give him absolution ere his departure
from earth. The pious father was seated
by his bedside when he opened his eyes;
he felt somewhat better, but that feeling,
he fancied, was the sure precursor of his
dissolution. Under this impression, he
was in some measure converted, by the
monk’s exhortations, to a sense of the
solemnity of approaching death; and be
lieving that his moments were now nearly
I 3 numbered,
174 DE WILLENBERG.
numbered, he fully unburdened his con
science of its weight, and revealed all that
had passed between Constantia and him
self, not excepting his oath: he next di- .
vulged her having tampered with the
other guard, and, in fine, so deeply cri
minated the guilty nun, that her death
now appeared even more certain than his
own. Shocked at such a disclosure, the
monk had hardly sufficient command of
himself to be able to commit it all to
paper; but having taken a brief sketch of
it, he was hastening to send it to the
Consistory, when the guard, not aware of
the frightful extent of Constantia's plot,
entreated him to postpone it until the
evening—“Through Heaven's will I may
possibly survive,” said he: “ some secret
inspiration whispers that I shall live to
witness myself against this wicked woman:
if life so long is spared me, I will do so—
yes, I will go to the Consistory, and my
self confound her—at every risk I will go.
The
DE WILLENBERG. 175
The sight of me will at once convict her:
I can then die in peace—let death come
then when it will.”
It was in vain that they opposed this
resolution, and represented the impru
dence and the danger to himself of such a
journey, should he ever recover so far,
which they had no hope of Firm in his
determination, he listened to their argu
ments unmoved. Heaven did indeed seem
to inspire him; from that hour he rapidly
grew better, and his request to have a
carriage to remove him to Warsaw in the
evening,was at length reluctantly complied
with. Struck by the danger and the re
morse of his companion, the other sentinel
had voluntarily come forward, and corro
borated in everything whathe haddeposed:
he necessarily accompanied him to the
Consistory, where their testimony was re
ceived, but unfortunately too late to be of
any service to the abbess.
I 4 In
176 DE wrūLENBERG.
In consideration of this confession, the
cardinal granted them a free pardon, and
they were dismissed. The exertion un
happily proved too much for the wounded
man. After his return, a fresh attack of
fever came on immediately, and in the
course of a few hours brought him to the
grave; but he had fulfilled a duty which
he deemed essential to his salvation, and,
as he had said, he died in peace.
With stoical and almost unnatural for
titude the two culprits bore for a while
the torture of the rack; but, totally over
come with agony, Garcia at length uttered
a piercing shriek, and fainted the next
moment. The cruel wretches, whose
office it was to inflict those tortures, still
continued their exertions, until, being
ordered to take her from the rack, they
found that death had anticipated their
bloody intentions, and unfastening the
chains that bound her, they laid her on a
bench—a corpse !
Lest
DE WILLENBERG. 177
Lest Constantia should also thus escape
the doom intended forher, they commanded
that she should be taken down, and the
cardinal proceeded then to pass sentence
on her. After summing up the evidence
of her enormous guilt, and forbidding the
slightest hope of mercy, he ordered her to
be beheaded early on the ensuing morn
ing, and then her body and head to be
burned to ashes at the stake.
The same convulsive and appalling
laugh shook her frame as she heard it,
and horribly distorted her features. The
violent exertion appeared to have torn her
heart from its place, and sent to her face
its torrents of blood: she reeled into the
arms of one of the officials, and, with a
chilling scream, bade them conduct her
to her cell.—“Now, ye ministers of hell
incarnate, I defy you all !” cried she, as
they enclosed her in the frightful dungeon.
Taking from her bosom a phial, contain
ing a powerful mineral poison (which, as
- I 5 if
178 DE WILLENBERG.
if anticipating the end of her wicked ca
reer, she had always carried about her),
she viewed it for a moment with exulta
tion—“Come,” said she, “ thou sweet,
delicious draught—thou little magic dose,
that can baffle even the malice of these
fiends, and disappoint them of their prey
—come, give wings to my soul at once,
that it may fly to Heaven, or to 22
She finished not the sentence—her
tongue seemed paralysed for a moment,
and she swallowed the fatal drug. She
lay for a long time almost stupified by its
effects: they were like the violent and
benumbing powers of opium; but when
they wore off, its succeeding ones were
yet more formidable to behold. The
most frightful delirium seized her—she
felt as if her brain was on fire, her eyes
rolled like flaming meteors, the deadly
venom preyed upon her vitals, drying up
the current of life—she felt as if it was
parching the very marrow in her bones,
- and
*
t
DE WILLENBERG. 179
and turning them all to cinders—her
hideous yells filled the prison; and tearing
her hairin frenzied desperation, she dashed
herself on the ground, writhing in agonies
too horrible to be described. Its violence,
however, did not last very long—her pain
gradually subsided, and she got ease; but
it was that treacherous respite, the surest
harbinger of death, when mortification
has commenced within, and she was fully
conscious of it. **
To the best of the human race the hour
of dissolution is an awful one; what then
must it be to the sinner, who even unto
that hour has pursued his wicked course?
Those alone—and the world contains ma
my—whose consciences are loaded with
crimes equal to Constantia's, can conceive
what she now felt; for no pangs could
shut out the retrospection of her past life
—no pangs of the body could equal those
of the mind, as she reviewed it—as she
looked back upon the black terrific cata
I 6 logue
I80 DE WILLENBERG.
logue of her offences. But Heaven is all
merciful, and even to the expiring sinner
denies not its forgiveness, if repentance,
sincere and fervent, urges our supplication
for it. Such. was Constantia's—she felt
that life was fleeting fast, and she employ.
ed her few short moments in meek and
pious aspirations to the Divinity, depre
cating his wrath, and beseeching his for
giveness.
“How striking a lesson is here to the
perfidy of man what an awful example
of its effects —of him whom Heaven, in
its care, created to be the defender and
protector of that sex on whom he dares
bring shame and ruin—whose weakness
he dares basely take advantage ..
falling he upholds not, but, with the iro
hand of seduction and disgrace, weighs
her down, till she has sunk to rise no
more—till fallen to the lowest and most
abject state of degradation humanity can
fall to, she riots in her guilt, exults in her
shame,
DE WILLENBERG. 181
shame, and lives but in sin and infamy!—
then, oh, then, on his head be her sins
visited
“Tremble, seducer, at the fabric thou
hast thus destroyed—at the wreck of in
nocence once so fair and lovely Oh,
cruel, unfeeling monster, man that with
thy smooth, seductive blandishments, canst
steal into the heart of woman, to rob her
of virtue—of honour; and rifling these,
art the more merciless villain to leave life
behind –worse than the serpent whose
wiles seduced our first parents even from
the shield of heaven-born innocence—steal
ing to her heart, to revel and glut thyself
in momentary sweets, and leave the venom
of thy sting behind I Like the flower
plucked from the stem that gives it life
and beauty, so, woman, the hapless, fragile
victim of seduction, then withers, droops,
and dies!”
Such was the soliloquy of the penitent
- Illlll.
I82 DE WILLENBERG.
nun. At the last words her voice grew
faint, then wholly inaudible; her hands,
which she had folded on her bosom,
dropped powerless beside-her, and a deep
drawn sigh terminated her mortal career
for ever.
CHAP
DE WILLENEERG 183
CHAPTER VII.
-->4-º'--------->47
At every step I tread, methinks some fiend
Knocks at my breast, and bids it not be quiet.
Otway.
SANGUINE in the hope ofsuccess, the duke
of Silesia had commenced his intended
journey in search of our heroine, deter
mined, should he find her, to obtain her
hand at any price. He had taken, he
trusted, the most effectual measures to
remove De Willenberg; and having now
no candidate to oppose him, he also hoped
that his love could set aside all other ob
stacles, and give him Victoria's pure and
undivided affection. Ere he left Warsaw,
he had anxiously sought intelligence of
her amongst her numerous friends in that
city; but all were ignorant of her flight,
and wholly unable to direct him whither
- to
184 pe willeNaeng.
to proceed. Wearied with their conjec
tures, he took the road to Zersk, where
he believed it most likely he should find
her; but there, after several hours inquiry,
she was not to be heard of.
While deliberating as to whither he
should next bend his course, the report of
a murder near the convent of St. Agnes
reached him, and the elopement of one of
the novices of that order, with a young
and handsome cavalier, both of whom had
been committed to prison. A confusion
of ideas, with which Victoria was nearly
associated, passed through his mind; that
novice might indeed be Victoria herself:
yet the murder!—how could it be con
nected with her—in what way could it
relate to her?—and the cavalier, too—oh,
no; it was altogether improbable—it sure
ly could not have been Victoria!
. The very name of murder now made a
coward of him; his terrified imagination
WàS
DE WILLENBERG. 185
was haunted by the bleeding form of De
Willenberg, whom he had delivered to
so shocking a death: he was himself to all
intents a murderer, liable every moment
to detection and punishment—horrible but
to think of . Until now, the magnitude
of his guilt had never been so apparent,
or so terrible to him; and now that the
deed was done, he would have given
worlds to have it undone. Conscience
rose up in formidable array, picturing a
murderer's fate both here and hereafter:
his soul grew sick with agony, and had
any one been present, he would inevitably
have been betrayed. The infatuation that
had urged him on was past, and to hear
that De Willenberg lived would have
been such bliss as even the hand, the heart,
and the fortune of the lovely Victoria
could not bestow. The very wish seemed
to render his existence still possible, and
he clung again to the hope that this cava
lier was no other than Theodore De Wil
lenberg.
Full
186 IDE WILLENBERG.
Full of the idea, he hastened to the
convent, where he was admitted to the
presence of one of the elder nuns. This
woman was far from believing that the
one with whom our heroine had eloped
was her brother. During her residence in
the world, her knowledge and skill in
intrigues and love-affairs was by no means
limited; nor had age nor monastic seclu
sion weaned her mind from the observa
tions of her youth. She told him all she
knew relative to the lover's being sum
moned, with the superior and sister Con
stantia, before the Consistory, where she
had no doubt of what the sentence of the
two former would be—still ignorant of
the nun's plot against Stephania.
There remained but one step now to
take to put an end to his doubts; and he
proceeded thence to Warsaw, knowing
that his rank would readily gain him ad
mittance to the Consistory, and procure
him an interview with Victoria. As he
rode
DE WILLENBERG. 187
*
rode along the vicinity of the forest, the
-volumes of smoke that darkened the air
informed him of the tremendous confla
gration within. This left little doubt of
what had happened; but whatever might
have occasioned the fire, that De Willen
berg should have effected his escape, was
now a cause of alternate and different
emotions to him. Should it be the case,
he was freed from the crime of murder;
but when his intention should be known
—when De Willenberg should blazon
forth the horrid conspiracy to the world,
and that he would do so it was natural to
conclude, what was to save him from
eternal infamy 2 what was to avert the
overwhelming torrent of ignominy and
disgrace that would blast his hitherto un
sullied fame for ever?—“Yet, better, far
better,” said he, “ to live amidst the
world’s odium and bitterest scorn, than die
beneath the weight of sin, and the aven
ging hand of Omnipotence: what is the
odium of this world—what are all its pu
nishments?—
T88 DE WILLENBERG,
nishments?—I will spurn them! They
are but the agents of Satan, to appal de
luded man—to scare him from repentance
—to frighten him from the path that leads
to heaven | Yes, I will meet the storm
at once—their scoffs, their censures, all
will H bear with fortitude, and rid me of
this load of guilt that weighs so heavy on
my conscience. They will tell me I have
played the villain unsuccessfully—they
will fling into my very teeth my baffled
schemes, and say, had they succeeded,
they had never been revealed—they will
tell me, now I make a virtue of necessity:
but let them say their worst—I heed
them not—I have here a little monitor
within, that whispers more than all their
tongues can say. Oh I have been the
fatal cause of this night's dreadful doings,
and on my head the blood of Theodore
and Victoria would cry for vengeance,
should they suffer death! While it is yet
in human power to snatch them from the
verge of the grave, let me, by one great
act
DE WILLENBERG. 189
act of justice, try to expiate my guilt
towards Heaven, and towards them.”
Such were Leopold's reflections on
leaving Victoria, after his unsuccessful
suit in the prison. Her condemnation
was one of the first things that reached his
ear on his arrival in Warsaw, and pro
ceeding to the palace, he heard his ma
jesty's lips confirm it. Still hoping to be
able to induce Victoria to promise him
her hand, and at the same time to save
De Willenberg, he had immediately re
paired to the Consistory. Of the result of
his visit we have already informed the
reader.
There is a grandeur and loveliness in
Virtue, when she stands forth.jn her native
purity, that involuntarily coſhmands our
homage and veneration—a majesty akin
to Divinity, that shews her superior to all
else on earth—that dazzles by its lustre
the eye of the most upright, and strikes.
aWe
190 DE WILLENBERG.
awe to the heart of the most profligate.
Her very name—every thing pertaining
to her, carry with it a charm undefinable
—depravity itself assumes her form, that
it may deceive our weak senses, and stalk
amongst us in security.
Never is her power or loveliness so pre
eminent as when Vice shrinks appalled
from her gaze, like the fallen angel be
fore the majesty of Heaven. Never had
Leopold beheld virtue in a more beautiful
form than that of Victoria—never till now
had her power reached his heart, Struck
by the magnanimity she displayed, never
before had he half so much admired her;
and feeling the influence of goodness, he ,
wondered how the deformities of vice
could have ever been otherwise than hor
rible and disgusting to him. From that
moment he felt as it were a new being—
all within him seemed newly organized—
repentance came to his inward heart,
bringing with it sensations infinitely
SWeeter
DE WILLENBERG. 191
sweeter than all the luxury of guilt had
ever imparted, gladdening as the angel of
mercy that descends to the despairing
wretch.
Thus influenced, as the first step towards
atonement, he proceeded to an immediate
interview with the king, at one of his
country palaces, whither he was gone for
the day. It required no ordinary degree
of courage and resolution to make such a
disclosure, to criminate himself thus deep
ly, and by confessions of a nature so re
volting, to a king and a brother, who had
ever held his honour and integrity unim
peachable. To offend the ear of royalty
by such a detail of iniquity—to avow to
his brother, his friend and his sovereign,
the base outrage on fraternal love, on the
purity of friendship, on a subject's reve
rence, and on honour's laws, he had been
guilty of and by such a confession to
cover himself at once with endless oblo
quy
192 DE WILLENBERG.
quy What a picture was this!, it might
have shaken the fortitude of a stronger
mind than his, had not the contrast been
still more frightful in its colouring, dyed
deep with the blood of De Willenberg
and Victorial
On reaching the palace he found the
king alone, and dejectedly pacing one of
the apartments, his arms, folded across,
and his eyes bent to the floor, while heavy
ighs at intervals escaped him. For a few
moments, he lingered at the threshold,
almost irresolute; but the door being affar,
the king observed the shadow of his fi
gure, and he was obliged to enter. His
majesty welcomed him courteously, but
with something in his manner that seemed
as if he would have asked a reason for
this unexpected visit. Leopold under
stood it, and knew not at first what to
say: never had he felt so much embarass
ment—reddening with confusion, he turn
ed
DE WILLENBERG. 193
ed for a moment towards the window to
hide it, but recovering himself, he took a
seat at the king's request.
Augustus still walked to and fro, evi
dently labouring under some mental de
pression.
“Your majesty seems unlike yourself
to-day,” observed Leopold, in a half-playful,
half-serious tone: “it is not usual to see
your brow thus overcast with clouds of
gloomy thought; but mists and vapours
sometimes will arise and shadethe brightest
sun. I prayyour majesty,are younot well?”
“I am well, Leopold, as far as regards
the body, it is true; but what is corporeal
health when the mind is out of order?—
a mere bauble—it is as a handsome watch,
beautiful to the eye without, but inter
mally deranged.” -
“What is it disturbs you?—surely, if
one so good can be unhappy, the guilty
mind should be most miserable.”
VoI, IV. K “To
I94 DE WILLENBERG.
“To condemn my fellow-beings and
my subjects to death ever disturbs me.
Know you not that I this day signed the
death-warrant for two prisoners of the
consistorial court, who have forfeited their
lives to the outraged laws of that tribunal?
Through me, Justice demands her due,
however severe; yet, while my hand
signed the mandate for their fate, my
heart recoiled, and would not sanction it.”
“I have ever known you just and mer
ciful, kind and compassionate; I also
know that those unhappy culprits have
been sentenced to die to-night—this then,
my brother, is the cause of your sadness?”
“Is it not a sufficient cause, duke 2 I
feel for them almost a father's agonies.
It is said they are some high-born pair,
whose love being crossed, led them to the
rash act—that one of them, endued with
more than all her sex’s beauty, and more
than manly courage, had not been many
hours in the noviciate of St. Agnes, when
her lover appeared before her: for his sake
she
DE WILLENBERG. 195
she boldly risked the danger of escape,
violated her vow, and by what ensued,
braved certain death.”
“And is there no appeal for them 2"
asked the duke; “ is there no chance of
their being spared? Oh, Augustus, you
are full of tenderest sympathy—will you
not pardon them?—all depends on you.”
“I cannot do so—there is no hope for
them. Did their offence affect myself
individually, I would forgive them ; but
it is a public cause—the crimes of sacri
lege and murder are alleged against them,
and they must publicly suffer for them—
my commiseration can avail them nothing
—justice shall be done.”
The firmness with which he said this
would have deterred any one but Leopold
from importuning farther, and even he
almost gave up the cause as hopeless; but
its being thus desperate stimulated him
still more.—“Nay, my liege,” cried he,
“ they must not die—it were murder in
- K 2 deed
I96 DE WILLENBERG.
deed if they did. I beseech you, Augus
tus, for my sake save them!”
“Why for your sake, Leopold 2" asked
the monarch, struck by the demand :
“say what mean these frantic tones—
whence is your agitation—know you the
prisoners ?”
“Yes, yes, my liege, I know them
both.”
“Who are they 2—speak—your words
are full of mystery—why would their
deaths be murder 2" -
“Were it not murder to shed innocent.
blood 2 would not that blood, as it
poured forth from them, soak in and ani
mate the earth itself to cry for retribution?”
“For Heaven's sake, speak more plainly!
—say, who they are—can you prove them
innocent?—can you prove that they have
not done what they are charged with ?”
“Not that, my sovereign—they have, I
own, offended against the laws that now
would have redress; but let those laws
seek that redress from me !”
“From
DE WILLENBERG. 197
“From you!" cried the king, regarding
him with a look of astonishment: “what!
make the duke of Silesia amenable for the
offences of two criminals 2–Is your high
ness connected with their crimes, that you
must answer for them 2–let me under
stand you.” As he said this, he frowned
for a moment with peculiar and chilling
severity.
“Oh, would to God,” faltered the
trembling Leopold, “that I could convince
you of their crimes being mine, and yet
conceal the rest! How shall I tell the
iniquitous tale to ears of purity—to you,
my liege, my brother, who have never
done me wrong in word or deed? in what
way can I quickest tell how I have de
ceived you, and debased myself?” His
voice sunk, and he could hardly go on.
“Speak to the purpose, duke,” said the
king; “ if you have deceived me, and
that my wrongs are of a private nature,
withhold your confession for the present;
K 3 but
198 DE WILLENBERG.
but declare how you are concerned in this
awful business, and do it briefly.”
Had he not previously fortified himself
against every discouragement, he would
now have been intimidated from going
on; but nerved with more than ordinary
resolution, he proceeded: his voice was
hurried and confused, as if he would have
told all, if possible, in a single syllable.— .
“Oh, my liege " said he, “summon all
the nobleness of your nature, while in a
few words I tell it: yes, I will do so,
though at each word I utter your curse
should fall on me. One of those convicts
is De Willenberg—one whose very life I
sought, but the hand of Heaven baffled
me: the other is Victoria, Herman's lovely
heiress.-Start not thus, sire, nor hinder
me from telling, in one breath, all I have
done, lest so much horror seize me that
I stop short.—I saw Victoria, and seeing,
loved her—knew I had a rival; that rival
Theodore—heard you too declare your
honourable
DE WILLENBERG. 199
honourable passion, and resolved to mar
you both, and gain her to myself. I
wrote to Theodore's father in his name—
that letter proved his ruin—then hastened
to the castle, not to demand her for you,
but for myself: ere I arrived she had
eloped Thinking De Willenberg dead
(for he had fled the castle on receipt of a
letter from home), Victoria sought to con
ceal her grief in the convent of St. Agnes,
while I endeavoured to soothe her father's
sorrow at the flight of his darling child,
he knew not whither. I vowed to find
her, if yet she lived. Overjoyed, he pro
mised me her hand; it was all I wished
for: lest he should hear of your majesty's
intentions, or the mission on which you
had sent me, I spoke of you—how shall
I tell it?—I dare not ask your pardon—
I belied you—foully misrepresented your
pure love, and called it what suited my
purpose: yes, told him—told Victoria's
father, the king had proposed to make her
bis concubine !”
K 4 “No
200 DE WILLENBERG,
“No more, no more of this,” cried Au
gustus, gasping with horror, and as he
retreated, spreading his hands over his
eyes, to shut him from his sight.—“I can
conceive the rest—her lover then returned,
found her immured in a monastery, self.
exiled through your treachery, and des
perate, he released her.” -
“Yes, it would have made Heaven's
angels desperate. Will you not then ex
tend your forgiveness to erring mortals 2
—visit their guilt on me—pour on me
your heaviest displeasure for my baseness
—proclaim it to the world—do any thing
to cover me with shame; but do not—do
not load me with such addition to my
crimes, as to have caused their deaths.”
“Wretched, wretched Leopold ! do I
live to see you so sunk, so degraded, so
covered with wickedness? Oh! what a
night of agony to me is this—what a state
for Silesia's duke, prostrated in guilt”
“How can I expiate it, sire? Will
you
IDE WILLEN13ERG, 201
you not, in mercy to me, to your brother,
spare them?”
“Expiate it !” repeated the king, with
a groan of anguish, as if his heart would
break: “nothing can do so—it can never
be expiated. What! talk of atonement
and to whom, forsooth 2 To me you have
been a traitor—but what of that? Look
to count Herman—who dares mention
atonement to him 2 Have you not robbed
him of his daughter?—have you not con
signed her to death by your enormities?
—have you not robbed the world of its
richest ornament?—have you not destroy
ed Victoria? Who-who but a madman
talks of atonement after this? Go-go
hence, and leave me to my grief: I dare
not say my brother has done this.” Over
come with emotion, he sunk upon a seat,
and hid his face with his hands, while the
, names of count Herman and Victoria al
ternately broke from him.
“Oh, no, Augustus, send me not from
- K 5 your
202 DE WILLENBERG.
your presence until you have promised to
pardon them.”
“I tell you, sir, I will not pardon them,”
cried the king, passionately starting up:
“mistake not my regret for weakness,
nor hope through me to make your atone
ment—justice, I repeat, knows no distinc
tion of persons; they have outraged the
laws, and they must suffer. Go and atone
to Heaven for your crimes, if possible;
but to a heart-broken father you cannot.”
“Now am I truly a wretch—a guilty,
and forsaken outcast, when my brother,
even in my penitence, casts me from him:
my misery is complete, and when I die
myself matters not to me, nor to the bro
ther who once so loved me.” -
A tear rolled down his cheek, and he
could hardly prevent himselffrom sobbing
aloud. The monarch's countenance soft
ened intosomething likepity for the fallen
Leopold, and every other feeling giving
way to fraternal affection, he tried to raise
him.
DE WILLENBERG. 203
him up, for he had bent on one knee
before him.—“Do not humble yourself
thus to me, Leopold,” said he; “this
posture best becomes you in addressing a
higher Power—I pray that Power to grant
you his forgiveness, as I do mine.” -
“Do you—do you indeed, magnani
mous being P” exclaimed the duke, press
ing his hand in rapture and gratitude;
taking advantage of the moment—“Oh,
my gracious sovereign!” said he, “you
have opened unto me the gates of mercy
and forgiveness; close them not, I beseech
you, until you have admitted to that
mercy and forgiveness the two you have
condemned to die.” -
The king's answer was interrupted by
the entrance of one of the pages, saying
that count Herman had arrived at the
palace, and was waiting in the audience
chamber, where he requested the honour
of an immediate interview with his ma
jesty.
K 6 - “ Will
204 IDE WILLENBERG.
“Will you not grant their lives?” again
implored the duke, seizing hold of his
brother's robe, as he moved towards the
door: “if they die, I will not outlive them.
Alas, sire! is it not enough, too much,
that you know my guilt, and would you
really blazon it forth to the universe?
would you make me the scoff, the scorn,
the horror of the whole world? If not—
if you would not see your brother carried
to the grave of those he had sacrificed,
then I conjure you spare them.”
“In vain you urge me, Leopold—such
glaring partiality would bring disgrace
upon the crown itself: to any thing else
you may command me, but this I cannot—
will not do. Sad and heart-rending is the
task now before me: to see Victoria's fa
ther—to hear the sorrows, to behold the
tears, the scalding tears, of shame, stream
ing down the cheeks of that good old.
man—to hear his petition for the life of
his adored child, and to refuse it!—yet it
must be done.”
- Repressing
DE WILLENBERG. 205
Repressing the tears that were almost
bursting from himself, the king hurried
from the room, leaving Leopold in a state
of indescribable agitation, expecting every
instant to see the count enter, with looks
of indignation and horror, to thunder his
malediction on him.
CHAP
206 DE WILLENBERG.
*
CHAPTER VII.
****-*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*.*
My task is done my theme
Has died into an echo-it is fit
The spell should break of this protracted dream;
Would it were worthier | *
CIIILDE HARold, Canto IV.
THE awful situation in which our captives
were placed, standing on the very verge
of eternity—a scene on which so few of
our mortal race are prepared to enter, re
quired that their last hours should be
tranquil and undisturbed by any occur
rences of the world they seemed likely so
soon to quit for ever; very different from
tranquillizing were the effects of the packet
De Willenberg had just perused. Such
a detail of wickedness had, even in those
solemn moments, overthrown the firmness
- of
DE WIT,1,12]NBERG. 207
of both, and, with an expression of deep
horror, he flung the packet from him.
Of mankind he had until now ever held
too favourable an opinion, for he had yet
seen but little of the world; never before
had he believed any of his species capable
of such monstrous depravity, much less
the haughty insolent duke of Silesia, who,
shielded beneath the pageantry of rank,
and the veil from which common mortals
dared not unmask him, had thus securely,
thus long unsuspected, brought his rival
almost to the last extremity of destruc
tion.
“Oh, wonderful, adorable woman º' he
exclaimed, regarding Victoria with admi
ration and almost with awe, “surely thy
loveliness, thy perfections, are more than
human surely some immortal fascination
throws its charms around thee, when to
possess thee, man deemed his very soul
too poor a sacrifice Art thou a second
Helena?
208 IDE WILLENBERG.
Helena?—No, no, ten thousand times more
terrible are the effects of thy beauty than
were all the horrors of the Trojan war.
Is he a second Paris who would have
wrested thee from me?—No; it was but the
siege of Troy followed the rape of Helena
—the miseries of a few short years; had
Leopold robbed me of thee, Victoria, him
self, and the country that gave him birth,
would have been overwhelmed with dis
grace for ever.”
“Still am I all your own, my Theo
dore,” said she, smiling beneficently on
him; “even in death shall I be yours—all
his machinations we may now laugh to
scorn.” * -
“Oh, do not recall them name not
again that destroying fiend! but he has
fallen, thank God, thank God! Like the
arch demon, he has fallen from his lofty
height, to rise no more—ay, the proud,
ambitious, scornful villain, at whose frown
or nod so many thousands have trembled,
dug a pit to hurl me into, and sunk in it
himself.
DE WILLENBERG. 209
himself. Oh, great Providence, for this
once more I thank thee!”
“Be those thanks, my love, for your
own deliverance—not for his degradation;
you would not trample on a fallen foe.”
Fixing a look of unspeakable delight on
the ever-amiable Victoria, he again took
up the packet, and replaced it in his
bosom.—“We may yet have need of this,”
said he; “if not, let it perish for ever.
More degraded than he is already, Leo
pold cannot be—lower than he has plunged
himself, he cannot sink.” -
As if fate had marked out this day to
be one of uninterrupted horror to them,
they now heard of what was echoed
throughout the prison—the trial and exe
cution of the unfortunate abbess of St.
Agnes, and the subsequent conviction and
death of the perjured Constantia, and her
accomplice, Garcia. Enormous as even
Leopold's guilt had been, that of the nun
far surpassed it in its own atrocity, and its
infinitely
-
210 DE WILLENBERG.
infinitely more terrible consequences—to
such events memory furnished not a pa
rallel.
They were now roused from their re
flections by the sudden appearance of count
Herman, not with the resentful frown of
an offended father, not with the severity
of one come to reproach them ; but with
love, tenderness, and grief, mingled in his
features, he presented himself before them.
Victoria thought she had prepared her
self for this meeting, but the sudden sight
of him was too much for her, and she fell
almost senseless into his arms; a long time
elapsed ere she recovered herself. What an
agonizing scene for those so dear to each
other, to meet under such circumstances!
“Oh, my father, my beloved father!”
said Victoria, concealing her face in his
bosom, while the tears poured from her,
“it were better surely had we never met
again,
10E WII,LENBERG. 2II
again, than part as we must part to
night.”
“No, my child,” replied the afflicted
parent, straining her closer to him, and as
little able to control his grief, “death will
not long divide us: if you die, I cannot
survive you; soon—soon shall I be laid in
the tomb beside you. Theodore, my dear
boy, come hither,” said he, stretching forth
his hand, and taking De Willenberg's;
“who, in our days of happiness, could
have foreseen all this? who, when you
and my Victoria, but a week ago, smiled
in all the felicity of your mutual love, be
neath the splendid roofof Herman Castle—
who then durst have predicted, that in the
next a prison's walls should behold your
tears—that, like the felons who deal but in
the profits of their vices, ye should be
doomed to an untimely death?”
“And comes not one breath of censure
from your lips to me? Oh, my lord,
know you the share that I have had in
bringing your child to this, and yet,
- noblest
212 DE WILLENBERG.
noblest of men! you do not execrate me in
the hour of sorrow P”
“No, Heaven forbid I should ! I have
heard all, Theodore, and all do I now for
give you.” -
“My lord, I deserve not this from you,
but yet you shall not think me more
culpable than I am—here—no tongue can
speak my wrongs like these few pages
22
“There needs not this, my friend, to
reconcile us,” said the count, giving back
the packet which Theodore had put into
his hand; “my friendship, I repeat, still is
yours, warm and unshaken as on the day
I promised you my daughter—promised
to myself that your wedded love should
give joy and blessings to my declining
years. Oh, my children! is it thus all my
hopes, all my plans, for your happiness
must end? is the cold grave to be your
bridal bed—a father's lamentation your
nuptial song? is my benediction to be be
stowed on your lifeless remains? are the
. - tears
DE willENBERG. 213
tears ofjoy to be turned to those ofmourn
ing and affliction? is there nobody, is
there no power, earthly or unearthly, to
save you?”
“There is, my lord,” said Theodore, in
the same mysterious voice; “I have that
power.” t -
“What mean you?” asked the count,
regarding him steadfastly, as if awe-struck
at his manner; “ are you endued with
more than mortal power? speak, wonder
ful being!”
A peculiar brightness danced over De
Willenberg's features; there was an un
definable something about him, that look
ed as if he was really going to employ
some supernatural means.
“A charmed gift, my lord, was long
since presented to me,” said he; “the donor
was one whose power none may question;
ere I received it, it was invested with this
peculiar property, that it should obtain
for
214 DE WILLENBERG.
for its possessor the immediate grant of
any request worthy of so great a privilege;
that request I have reserved to make of
his majesty the king.”
“Explain, De Willenberg—charm or
spell, say what it is. I will myself in
stantly to the king—what is the gift you
speak of2"
“It is a talisman, but at present I must
reveal no more; it can but act in the pre
sence of him from whom I demand the
boon, and to you, count, I will entrust the
precious charge; take this, fly speedily
with it to the king—its contents once dis
closed, we are safe.”
“Let me not lose a moment,” cried the
count, eagerly seizing the packet De Wil
lenberg held towards him; “already have
I too long delayed to seek him—I have
been to the palace, but there he is not;
be he where he may, a father flying to
beg his children's lives will find him—one
kiss, my love, until we meet again;” and
embracing Victoria, he hurried away.
The
DE WILLENBERG. 215
The happiest anticipations now for a
while filled Theodore's bosom, confident
as he was that the talisman he had em
ployed would effectually accomplish his
purpose; but all his sanguine hopes failed
to disturb the placid serenity with which
Victoria awaited the hour for their being
brought to the scaffold.
Soon afterwards father Raymond the
confessor entered; he was a man of vener
able and prepossessing aspect. Holding
in one hand a missal, and in the other a
small crucifix, he approached them with a
look of the tenderest sympathy and pity
for their misfortunes; a tear trembled in
his eye, and his voice faltered as he spoke.
—“The hour is come, my children,” said
he, “when ye must think of earthly things
no more—this world closes fast upon you
both—prepare for death—it is but the tran
sient sleep that will lead you into immor
tality—kneel with me now and pray.”
As
316 DE WILLENBERG.
As he advanced they had involuntarily
bent their knees in reverence to him, and
they joined him in a long and fervent ad
dress to the Deity, into whose awful pre
sence they might so soon be called.
While they were yet kneeling, the clock
sounded a quarter before midnight—they
suddenly stopped, and a fearful and death
like silence succeeded. The moment was
at hand when they were to leave their
cell, and proceed to the last scene of exist
ence—the scaffold, and on a signal from
the confessor they arose.
“Good God, the count not yet returned!”
said Theodore, listening to catch the
slightest breath that disturbed the solemn
silence, while hope again receding from
his bosom, took almost all animation from
his features—“if it should fail!”
He gazed on Victoria as he ventured
this doubt, expecting that she would re
* . proach
DE WILLENBERG. 217
proach him; but she had not participated
in his hopes, and she remained silent, un
willing by any observation to depress him
still more. A few minutes longer he list
ened, almost checking his respiration, lest
it should keep from his ear the sound of
an approaching footstep.
The monotonous silence was at length
interrupted by the chiming of the bell,
which flung its hollow and chilling knell
throughout the building; it was the signal
for the prisoners to be led to execution—
still the count came not; a cold moisture
covered De Willenberg's face, the agony
of disappointment to his highly-raised
hopes nearly convulsed him, and tottering
to a seat, he faltered—“If that has failed,
we are inevitably lost.”
Voices were now heard outside ming
ling with the dreary echo of the bell.—
“He comes!” exclaimed Theodore, start
ing abruptly from his seat, and a feverish
WOL. IV. L glow
218 DE WILLENBERG.
glow of sudden expectation spreading in
stantly over his cheek.
“Give way not to such ill-timed joy,
my son,” interposed the monk; “it is un
becoming at such a time as this, when life
and death almost embrace each other.”
De Willenberg heeded him not, but
stood close to the door, in mute and firmly
fixed attention, waiting for the instant of
its opening, to admit, as he hoped, the
Count.
The footsteps approached, the portal:
yawned widely on its rusty hinges, and
the bell, ringing a horrid and dismal peal,
swept more loudly through their cell—
three men entered, but not the count.
Their persons were muffled in sable
cloaks, and their faces, which were of the
deepest African black, were incapable of
any expression but savage and remorse
less cruelty. They were the familiars.--
“Come!” said the three in one voice, ter.
rible
DE willENBERG. 219
rible and prophetic, and like the dreadful
fiends of darkness, they beckoned to their
prisoners to follow them. -
“Whither?” demanded Theodore, re
treating aghast and nearly breathless.
“To death "responded the three sepul
chral voices; “it is the midnight hour—
all is ready—come then away!”
As they said this, still beckoning, they
stalked with measured strides along the
gloomy passage that led to the place of
execution, keeping pace with the slow
beating of the clock, as it mournfully tolled
twelve. -
Every hope now fled, again the blood for
sook De Willenberg's cheeks, and with
his ice-cold hands he strove to support
Victoria, as with unsteady steps they fol
lowed their grim conductors through the
passage, at the extremity of which, the
farthest of a long succession of ponderous
iron doors opened into the street.
L 2 What
220 DF WILLENBERG.
What an appalling scene there presented
itself! every thing was complete and in
readiness for the ceremony; the scaffold
hung with black, on which the abbess had
died, stood prepared for their reception;
even the executioner already held the axe
uplifted, while countless crowds of specta
tors bent their eyes on the condemned
pair, for whose fate innumerable expres
sions of commiseration were heard. Vic
toria surveyed all with perfect calmness—
death had no terrors for her.
De Willenberg's wild eye rambled to
the utmost boundary of the prospect, over
which the torches gleamed with a bright
ness almost intolerable, in search of the
count, or a messenger from the king—still
neither came, and there was nothing to
encourage the slightest hope now that
they would, at least time enough to save
them. -
At the foot of the scaffold they again
knelt
IDE WILLENBERG. 221
knelt with the confessor; every lingering
hope, every chance of life, had faded away;
and feeling that it was incumbent on him
to prepare himself for an after-state, Theo
dore joined in the prayers with all the
firmness, he could command; the anthem
was then sung, and Victoria's heavenly
voice gave additional sublimity to the holy
song. Unaccustomed to strains so exqui
site, the whole multitude gazed on her
angelic form and face with sentiments
akin to adoration; they almost fancied her
a being superior to mortal, and a shower
of tears from every eye expressed the
powerful excitement of their feelings; but
Victoria saw them not—she sought conso
lation from a different source—from the
Deity. At the conclusion of the hymn,
the official “motioned to them to ascend
the scaffold; there seemed but a few mo
ments between them and futurity, and
embracing each other, they obeyed.
Just as they reached the last step, loud
L 3 and
222 DE WILLENBERG.
and reiterated cries withdrew their atten
tion, the multitude gave way, and they
beheld count Herman flying towards
them, almost breathless with speed and
agitation; the glare of the torches shewed
joy and horror terrifically mingled in his
Countenance.
“Desist, desist, dare not to strike!” he
franticly exclaimed, and rushing upon the
platform, he snatched his daughter in his
arms, and bore her half-senseless down the
steps, calling to De Willenberg to descend
also.
“What means this daring interrup.
tion?” demanded the chief official, seowl
ing haughtily on the count; “who has
empowered you to do this?”
“Your sovereign has, unfeeling wretch!”
replied the latter; “would you still glut
your murderous heart on human blood?”
“What said the king, my lord?” has
tily inquired Theodore; “bring you no
order—no message from him?”
- “Yonder
IDE WILLENBERG. 223
“Yonder he comes himself, my son.”
“Yes, yes, he comes!” echoed several
voices in the crowd; “there is the carriage
—fall back—make way instantly for his
majesty.” The next moment four foaming
steeds drew the monarch to the foot of the
scaffold, where he alighted, attended by
three of his ministers.
. Every face beamed with hope and ex
pectation, every individual stood uncover,
ed, and bowed profoundly to their sove.
reign, who, with the dignity and grandeur
of an elevated being, full of power, great
ness, and mercy, approached the illustri
ous captives; they had fallen on their
knees before him; taking a hand of each,
he raised them up.
“Brave, magnanimous hero!” said he,
addressing De Willenberg, “ fresh as
yesterday, your features and your gallant
conduct are imprinted on my memory,
never to be forgotten; receive again this
L 4 pledge
224 DE WILLENBERG.
pledge of my unalterable friendship (put
ting a ring on his finger), this “talisman,’
which, with more than magic power, has
preserved you; you were my deliverer
from death—I will, in return, be yours—
ye are both forgiven.” -
“Is this, my liege, the valiant young
soldier to whom his country owes such a
debt?” asked one of the nobles.
“Yes, my lord,” replied Augustus, “he
it was, who, reckless of all danger to him
self, risked his own life to preserve his so
vereign's.”
“Be his reward proportioned, sire! the
grant of life and honours is even too poor
a tribute of our gratitude to him.”
“Proclaim aloud that they shall live,”
resumed the king; “tell these, my subjects,
there is now no cause of grief—chase off
the clouds that darken all their features—
dry up their tears—tell them the ones for
whom they wept are safe.” -
“Let all assembled here rejoice—le
them, with one voice, give thanks to Po
land's
DE WILLENBERG. 225
land's monarch, who bids these noble lovers
live and be happy.”
A tumultuous burst of applause sound
ed from all quarters; the whole atmosphere
rang with acclamations, which, powerfully
reverberating, seemed to shake the very
heavens—no sounds were to be heard but
those of joy—every tongue exclaimed—
“Bless our gracious king! a long and glo
rious reign be his reward! and happy be
the pair that thus he pardons !”
In the plenitude of paternal joy and
affection, count Herman had again clasped
De Willenberg and Victoria to his bosom,
silently weeping over them, while the
three were yet unable to express their
feelings by words.-" Pardon!” repeated
the count, at length raising his eyes to
wards those of the monarch, which spark
led with unspeakable delight—“did I not
hear that word float like celestial music on
the air?”
L 5 “You'
226 IDE WIP,LENBERG,
“You did, my lord; they are pardoned,
and live to bless each other with their
love, and make your old age happy.”
A torrent of eloquenee seemed strug
gºing for vent in the count's heaving bo
som.—“Oh, my liege?” said he, “ you
have restored to me that life which else
was fleeting fast. Ere you can know the
rapture it returns with, ere your heart ean
feel what mine does now, you must be
first a father: may you be sueh' and may
your royal offspring, as they grow up and
imitate your virtues, bring to your breast
transports equal to mine! But it is not
for words to tell my feelings, sire—it
needs a hanguage of no eomenon nature to
paint that heavenly virtue, gratitude; but
its twin-sister, mercy, sits enthroned with
in your royal bosom, and will tell you the
sweet sensations of a grateful heart.”
To the remainder of this unparahleled
seene it is impossible for any language to
do justice; but the consummation of their
happiness
* DE WILLENBERG. 227
º
happiness was yet to come—the favour of
their sovereign was yet to be more fully
manifested.
As soon as our hero and heroine were
sufficiently themselves, they accompanied
his majesty, with count Herman, to the
palace; there, at his pressing invitation,
to remain, until the performance of that
ceremony which would reward the con
stancy, and make ample amends for the
severe trials, of the amiable lovers.
They had not long arrived there, when,
covered with shame and remorse, the pe.
nitent Leopold stood before them. At
the first moment of beholding him, De
Willenberg's face glowed with furious in
dignation; the recollection of all the mi
series he had brought upon him rushed
afresh to his memory, and he would have
betrayed the strong resentment he felt,
had not the dejected looks and altered de
meanour of the duke disarmed it.
66 De
228 DE WILLENBERG.
“De Willenberg,” said he, “I can per
ceive the conflict of feelings you fain
would conceal; I came prepared to bear
your heaviest denunciations—to hear your
bitterest upbraidings—for I deserve them
all; yet, ere you pour them on me, listen
to the full and unreserved avowal of my
past conduct, and the motives that influ
enced me—hear it, as the worthiest resti
tution I can make you, now that you are
yourself restored to the world, with that
loveliest of women who will so soon be all
your own.” •
“Yes, Leopold,” said the king, “such
confession is a duty which justice to all
parties imperatively calls for. I have pre
pared my noble friend, count Herman, to
hear it; and he, as well as those whom it
more nearly concerns, will, I trust, listen
with clemency and forbearance.”
That they would do so, was evident in
the benignity of their looks, from which
he anticipated the forgiveness they were
ready
DE WILLENBERG. 229
ready to offer him. At any other time,
what a humiliating task would this have
been to the hitherto haughty and imperi
ous duke of Silesia! But the defeat of
his schemes had subdued his pride, com
punction had reformed his heart, and he
was now encouraged to complete the work
of repentance he had begun; the detail
was a painful one to all, but he gave it
with firmness and composure; and they
heard it, as they had promised, with all
the clemency he hoped for.
When he had, concluded, De Willen
berg respectfully approached him and
took his hand, while the magnanimity of
his manner filled all present with admira
tion.—“ Duke,” said he, “if the humble
tender of forgiveness can reconcile us—can
blot the past transactions from your me
mory, it is yours—fully and unequivocally
yours; regard it all but as a dream, and
henceforward let it be consigned to eternal,
oblivion.” • . . .
“You,
230 DE WILLENEERG,
“You, my amiable friend,” replied the
duke, pressing the hand he held—“you
will, I trust, in time forget it, but never
can I: me too you must consign to the
same oblivion as I shall do the world.—
Hear now my unalterable resolve—unal.
terable, I repeat,” proceeded he, address
ing himself to the king, “that you, sire,
may not, from brotherly love or aught
else, oppose it. I will, in a few days, re
linquish the court and military dignities
I at present hold, and retire to a Benedic.
tine convent about twenty leagues from
Warsaw—there, in seclusion that best be
fits a penitent sinner, to spend the remain
der of my life. Think not that, in doing
this, I shall sacrifice anything so dear to
me as your society; but the busy seenes
of the world would be irksome to me, and
recall things that retirement may banish.
Knowing this to be my wish, I pray you
do not vainly try to dissuade me from it.
One thing more now, of no less impor
tance—the disposal of my ample fortune.
De
DE WILLENBERG. 231
De Willenberg, we are once more friends
—sincere friends; permit me to exercise
the privilege of friendship—to regard you
as a brother—as a proof of that regard,
and the high estimation in which I hold
you, to settle on you half my fortune.”—
Here Theodore was about to interrupt
him, but was prevented.—“Nay, De Wil
lenberg, if I do possess your friendship, I
will brook no refusal; if not, then disavow
it at once, and spurn the humbled Leo
pold as he deserves.”
Theodore scarcely knew how to reply
to this; to utter a decisive negative against
receiving so magnificent a present, might
perhaps be misconstrued into a contemp
tuous rejection of it, and he deemed it
still more culpable to let him hope that he
would accept it. Seeing him waver, the
duke continued—“There is yet another
who must share my wealth—the young
count Bertonville; his mother promised
her permission that I should provide for
him—the advantage of that promise I now
claim,
232 DE WILLENBERG.
claim, by which the greater part of my
personal estates shall be secured to him for
ever. The remainder I will reserve, to en
able me in future, even in a monastery, to
distribute joy, happiness, and comfort, to
all around me.”
In vain every argument, every objection,
was urged against these proposals—in vain
De Willenberg and count Herman com
batted them—opposition entirely failed,
and Leopold carried his point; not all
their entreaties could prevail on him to
retract his determination of retiring to a
convent; and having made the necessary
preparations and arrangements, the follow
ing week beheld him a member of the or
der of St. Benedict.
Meantime the count returned to Her
man. Castle, bringing joy and gladness to
every heart; he was charged with an in
vitation from the king to madame Berton
ville, to accompany him back on a visit to
* , his
DE WILLENBERG. 233
his majesty, in order to be present at his
daughter's nuptials, which were to take
place in a few days.
In secret and in silence the amiable bro
ther and sister shed tears of rapture at the
unexpected restoration of two so dear to
them as Theodore and Victoria, while
every other individual within and without
the castle gave loud and public demonstra
tions of genuine joy and sincere attach
ment to the illustrious house of Herman.
An event on that occasion, too, not the
least memorable, was the marriage of Con
rad to his faithful enamorata, the fair Bar
bara.
That nothing might be wanting to ren
der the approaching union at the palace a
scene of perfect happiness, the king had
also sent to invite madame De Willen
berg. Never before had the fond adoring
mother received an invitation so truly de
lightful to her, or one which with more
alacrity
234 DE WILLENBERG.
alacrity she acceded to: to behold her son
blooming in the midst of health and feli
city, possessed of the lovely wife his heart
had chosen, was one of her first wishes,
and soon that wish was most amply grati
fied. The day of her arrival in Warsaw
witnessed his high promotion in the army,
as well as in the favour of his sovereign,
who, to annihilate, if possible, every me
mento of Theodore's misfortunes, issued a
mandate to have the Forest of Death hewn
to the ground.
In point of fortune, our hero was no
longer an unequal match for the heiress
of Herman Castle; the count Koningern
shortly afterwards dying without issue,
generously bequeathed back the whole of
the property of which his cruel and unre
lenting father had so long deprived him,
and which, joined to Victoria's vast pos
sessions, enabled them to vie in splendour
with royalty itself.
Ere
DE WILLENBERG. 235
Ere the marriage could take place, it
was necessary to obtain a bull from his
holiness the pope, to absolve Victoria from
her conventual vow; for this purpose the
king dispatched a courier to the court of
Rome, and the day of his return was the
one nominated for the magnificent nup
tial ceremony at the palace. The prepara
tions were completed for it in a style of
almost unprecedented grandeur; but the
most gratifying mark of the royal favour
was evinced at the conclusion of the sacred
rites, when De Willenberg and his beau
tiful bride knelt to receive their sovereign's
benediction. Smiling with the sweetest
expression of benevolence on the interest
ing pair, he took a hand of each with pa
ternal affection, and joined them.—“Thus
do I hail this auspicious union,” said he,
“and bless your wedded love. May ye
be as happy as ye deserve 1 May Provi
dence bestow his choicest gifts on you—
give you long life and health, with every
virtue that makes us amiable! May every
succeeding
236 DE w II,LENBERG.
succeeding year increase your joys! and
when, in nature's course, ye sink into the
peaceful tomb together, may heaven be
yours!—ye can desire no more.”
THE END.
Printed by J. Darling, Leadenhall-Street, London.
-F
