{"name":"A Continuation Of The Prophecies","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1813__southcott___a_continuation_of_the_prophecies.pdf","mytitle":"A Continuation Of The Prophecies","mylang":"de"}
A
CONTINUATION OP
P R O P H E C I E S ,
* B Y J O A N N A SOUTHCOTT,
/ROM THE YEAR 1792, ‘TO THE PRESENT TIME. ,
MARCH, 1802. '
1
SHALL insert- in this hook copied' iqf lettWsj
which were sent to me by a worthy gentle­
man, now deceased; but though he' is dead; his.
letters still speak. I shall, however; preface such
my design by observing, that as men havU w&rmly
reproved my writings, and said, prophecies, had
ceased ever since our Saviour Was on earth, I must
intreat the learned world to answer the following
quotations from the Bible.'
. . . -
_ . ' I
How* the knowledge of the Lord can cover the.
earth, as the waters cover the great deep*? How*
they shall all know the Lord, from the greatest td
the least? How they are to follow on to khow rite
Lord ? for it is Written, then shall ye know the
Lord, if ye follow on to know him ? for the kingdom *
of heaven is within you. L et your dye, be single,
and your .whole body shall be full of light, Com-
A
2*he Third Edition, printed in October, 1813,
by W. Merchant, Ingnun-Court, London, Entered at Stationer^
fromthe SecondEdition, printedinAug.1807. Hall.
Digitized by
tnune with God in your heart, and he will com­
mune with you. The I.ord saith, I am the same,
yesterday, to day, and for ever; in me there is no
variableness, nor the shadow of turning: but man
hath sought out many inventions. The Lord spake
by dreams and visions of the night, and the angels
of the Lord are ministring spirits, to administer to
the heirs of salvation. The Spirit of the Lord is
with them that fear him; and he reveals his secrets
to them that believe in his name. The prophet
saith, Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he
will reveal his secret to hfc servants, the prophets^
Out dear Redeemer said, he came not to destroy
the law of God, nor the prophets, but to fulfil them:,
this generation should not pass away till all was ful­
filled. This was near 1800 years ago. Let the
learned world explain what he meant; for the Old
Testament is not fulfilled, that he called his sons
from afar, and his daughters from the ends of the
earth. Is Jerusalem new-built? Hath the Lord esta­
blished the covenant that he made with Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob ? Is the throne of David esta­
blished ? Are righteousness and truth met together ?
Do love and peace kiss each other ? Doth every man
speak the truth.by his neighbour? Doth righ­
teousness run down our streets as a flood, and the
fear of the Lord as a mighty stream ? or do men flock
unto Jesus, as doves to the windows, crying out
like the jailer, what shall we do to be saved, to in­
herit the crown which is set before us ? Is there
any crown set before them, that they are so seek­
ing after r Do not men drink in iniquity, as the ox
drinketh wqter ? Is not every man’s hand against
his neighbour ? Are not the Apostle’s words veri-,
fled, Who hath asked counsel of the Lord, or. who
hath ascended on high ? for since the prophets fell
asleep, all things remain as they were,. Do not
2
-V :.
Jigiiize-
men try to quench the Spirit, and despise prophe­
cies ? D o they not do despite to the Spirit of God,
and say they want not the knowledge of the Most
High ? Do they not crucify the Lord afresh, and
put him again to open shame ? Are not men the
same at.his second coming as they were at his first?
Are not his words verified at his second coming, Ye
shall scarce find faith on the, earth ? Yet men have
faith to believe their Bibles asthey haveplaced them;
but faith to believe -the manner of Christ’s second
coming is scarce to be found on the earth. And
this is what our Saviour meant, when he said,
But they-that fear the'Lord speak often one to ano­
ther; and the Lord hearkened, and heard, and a
book of remembrance is written, and they shall be
mine, saith the Lord, in the day I make up my jew­
els : and Lwill spare them, saith the Lord, as a man
spareth his own son that serveth him : for -to that
man will I look that is of a meek and contrite spirit,
and trembleth at my w ord; for he that honoureth
m e , I will honour; and he that despiseth m e , shall
be lightly esteemed: he that seeketh me, shall find
m e; and he that ordereth his conversation aright,
in him will I dwell, and take up my abode with
him, and he 6hall sup with m e , and. I with him:
my delight shall be with the sons of men; for I am:
the good Shepherd, and my sheep know my voice,
and they follow m e wheresoever I go: and I go to'
prepare a place for them, that where I am, there
they may be also.
. These texts of scripture let the learned world
answer, or I shall do it for them. But I shall post­
pone the subject for the present, and proceed to in­
sert copies of some letters received by me from
that highly esteemed and very worthy character,
f t .Bruce, esq.
a 2
5 '
Digitized by Googl
4
r " ’ , LETTER I. •
Basil Bruee, Esq. to Joanna Southcott.
M Y dearlybeloved sister in the Lord and Saviour
Jesus Christ! for such you are in the strongest
sense of the word, and which f shall be ever proud
to call you, while one spark of his blessed Spirit is
graciously vouchsafed to fill my sool, in thirsting
after righteousness; for his divine Spirit, wherever
it dwells, must find out its kindrea Spirit, which
you;possess in a very high degree; and that the
very God of love may unceasingly shower down his
choicest blessings on you, for your obedience and
gseht> exertions in the noble work he has allotted
you, .is the earnest prayer of my heart ! •
i My friend Torin having put-this letter into my
hand to forward under oover to Mr. Taylor, for
Which purpose I have got a frank, I feh that I could
not employ the few spare minutes I have just now,1
better wan hi executing the desire' of my heart, to
testify to you my admiration of the heavenly work in-
whicfryoa are engaged * and to convince you, that
tte presumption xvith which you wrongfully accused
me in your letter to my father, viz. “ that 1 thought;
“ he wrote too humbly for a gentleman,” &c. \
say, to convince you that my heart is incapable o f
suck presumption, 1 need only tell you, that ever
since. 1795 -I have been fed by the Spirit o fth e-
lo rd to know, that his time was at band to execute*
the long predicted judgments on an apostate World,
out. of which he woigld preserve a people to Serve
and obey him in purity of spirit and noliness of livw-
i • >
Digitized by Google’
$
W ; and that In 1798 I was utgfed by the su m
. Sprit to quit an office, which I had held 14 yearfe
under government, with credit and approbation, <
from a .conscientious desire to- fulfil the express
command of Christ against tweeting oaths, Add
I immediately published an Exhortation to the
world against the rapidly increasing Sin o f Sweating
Oaths, and testifying my firm belief in the Divine
Mission o f Richard Brothers. I have also further
to cay, that I received your two first books with
rapture, before my father had eeen them ; for I put
them into his hand with that assurance, as he can
testify. Now, believe me, I do not mention these
things out of pride and vanity (for 1 know ©f itting
own self I can do nothing, and that every'good gift
cotneth from the Lord,) but only to justify myfeerf
in your eyes, and to cooylnce you how incapable I
am of •imagining any thing prejudicial- to- yoitJ
For after bearing up againSt the bufferings of the
world, and the ridicule and persecution or my for*
xfier friends atid relations; after. Sacrificing,every
Worldly consideration-
, for the testimony Of'Jesus.
<3od forbid I should turn back, and loSe the pro­
mised reward 1 Nor do I mean to detract from the
merit of my worthy father, when I add, that for five
years (that is, from 1795 4®~1800) I experienced a
warm opposer even in him ,• for the Lord can re­
veal himself to whom, he pleases, koto he pleases,
and when he pleases, and it is our duty to receive
the heavenly Visitor with, humility and thanksgiv­
ing, in the way in which it pleaseth hlm to send it.
Another time I will take tpe liberty to send you an
account of a remarkable vision .with which I was
favoured 4th of March, 1795. 1 '
‘:F'observe, by your last letter to my fether,1ydfc:
received the guinea which my w ife'(not iny fkthdr)
Digitized by L,oosle
%
sent by young M r. Taylor, an a trifling testimony of
her Christian love for you. And it gives me inex­
pressible pleasure to tell you (mind I do it as a duly,
and in humility%not in pride,) that the Lord has
blessed my endeavours to make you a present of
a little purse with success, and in the course of
next week I hope to be able to send you a token of
our love and affection. I wish it was ten times the
sum ; but for these five years I have felt it my duty,
as a Christian, to relieve the distressed servants of
the Lord, whenever they fell in my way, which has
greatly lessened my means and power to fulfil in
this respect the desire of my heart; “ but such as
I have, I freely give unto t h e e a n d may the
God of Love and Peace be with you, now and
henceforth for ever, is the wish of, my dear Sister,
Your’s, most affectionately,
No,7M d ^ 1 ? 6 .st' J“ ' } BASIL b r u c e .
P. S. It gave me great pleasure to hear my very
worthy friend, the Rev. Mr. Foley, had written to
you. I expect him in town every day, when you
will be the frequent subject of our conversation.
6
LETTER II.
Basil Bruce, Esq. to Joanna Soutkcotl.
London, 31 Aug. 1801.
My dear Sister in the Lord!
As it is impossible for me to give you an
adequate idea of the grateful feelings with which
say soul was overwhelmed at the perusal of youf
Digitized by Google
very kind letter; I shall only say, that when the
Lord permits, and you have time, you-cannot.con­
fer a greater favour on me and my dear wife than hy^
writing. I am truly Sony it is not in my power to
write you a proper answer 'just now, as the whole
of this day has been fully occupied in a variety of
business previous to leaving town at 5 o’clock to­
morrow morning for Lincolnshire, where I expect
to meet my father, who was this day to;set off from
•his living in Wiltshire across the country to Market*
Deeping, where he has a married daughter residing ;
and I could not delay another post to beg your accept­
ance of the inclosed, as another instance of the
Lord’s favour to you, hisfaithful servant, as well as
. to those he has deemed worthy instruments, to fur­
ther his glorious work, in you, and by you. In order
to make the conveyance quite safe, I paid 14 £ into
mv banker’s hands, and got a post-bill from them,
payable to Mr. Taylor, as being more in the way of
negotiating such notes, and have requested him to
pay you the amount. -
In order to' acquaint you with particulars, (m ust
teli you, the day after I received your letters I went
to my worthy and spiritual friend, Mr. Sharp, who
lives at No. 50, Titchfield-Street, Mary-le-bone,
well knowing his-ability ahd inclination to send you
a token of Christian love. After reading your let­
ters with great inward pleasure, he presented me
with seven guineas, saying, be had long had it on
his mind to beg your acceptance of a trifle. I can­
not express to you how my soul leaped with joy, and
pouring out of gratitude to the Lord on the occasion.
I hope *you will write a few lines when you can.
Two guineas are from my sister Beecraft and her
husband at Deeping, where 1 am going on a visit;
the rest of the money is from myself and wife, ex-
Digitized by G o o g l e
cepe a guinea my father desired me to send from
him, whenever I was able to make a sum worth send­
ing. I perceive you still labour under a mistake,
with respect to my having said something about- my
father's writing with too much humility and famili­
arity to you; tor I call God to witness, that no such
ideas ever entered my head, nor any such words ever
. escaped my lips. All I said to my father on his giving
me one of his letters to you to read, was, that I
thought he occupied too much of his letter in rela-
.ting trifling domestic anecdotes, which could not
be very interesting to you, who was occupied with
the great work of the Lord. However, if that cir­
cumstance was the occasion of your relating the
wonderful history of your-life, I am satisfied it was
• all ordered for the best, and I praise God tor it.
When you favour me with another letter, pray ex­
plain further the mystery of the Father and the Son
coming one after the other, as all the shadow*
come to you from the substance ; because in your
book you say, the shadows come first, or one year,
and the substance the next. Please to direct your
tetters’for roe and my father, as usual, to Jerroyn-
'Street, and my wife will forward them.
Mrs. Bruce, and my friend Mr. Bryan, who is
here, and is a highly favoured character in spiritual
things unite in Christian love, &c. with,
My dear friend,
Tour’s ever sincerely in the love of the truth,
BASIL BRUCE*
8
£3" My readers will particularly notice, that the
contents of the two foregoing letters were commu­
Digitized by Google
nicated to me in July, nearly a month before they
were written, when it wa9 foretold me, that the
Lord would raise up for me friends in London*
who would readily grant me any assistance in the
prosecution of this work.
In the book of printed letters you will see tha
promise was made, that the Lora would send a
blessing for their sakea, and 6top the rain in the
time of harvest: the truth of both followed, as you
find by'the letters and harvest; though at the be­
ginning of the harvest, it is well known, the crops
were likely to be spoiled by rain, and judged so by
most, as it rained both old and new St. Swithin’e
day, which have always been remarked to bring a
long continued rain: yet all these scenes changed
on a sudden; the rain ceased as promised, and
brought in a plentiful harvest. This I know the
ignorant part of mankind will laugh at, and say,
will the Lord send a blessing or a curse, as her -
words are believed or disbelieved ? But you know I
have told you, they are not my words, but. the words
of the Lord. But come now t<ryour Bible, Did i
not the Lord, in every age of the world, send a
blessing or a curse, as the prophets were believed
or disbelieved ? Witness Nineveh, Sodom, or Go­
morrah, and trace all your Bibles bhck j do pot you
say, the eye of the Lord is every where present?
Then was bis eye not present in 1798, when I wrote
a letter from Bristol on Aug. 23 of that year, stat­
ing, that if my writings were mocked, and men re­
fused to search out the truth, the anger of the Lord
would be kindled, and the following harvest would
be hurt by sun or rain ? If men despised the words-
of the Lord, and brought a burden on me, 4o the
Lord would bring a burden on the land in the suc->
9
Digitized by b o o g i e
deeding jfear. Now I must give my readers to un­
derstand, that in the following year my writings
were despised and mocked before the harvest, and
my letters turned back with contempt to me again,
which caused a heavy burden on my mind and
heart, and tears like a fountain flowed from my.
eyes. I was answered; as men increase thy sor­
rows, I will increase theirsj and as thy letters
were turned back with contempt, so' shall their
]>rayers for the harvest; and so it followed. Prayers,
were every Sunday offered up in all places of wor­
ship, that the Lord would stay his heavy hand to
stop the rain in 1799; but they were treated like
my letter, and turned back with anger unanswered*
and not granted, till the harvest Was hurt by the
rain, and ■brought in a scarcity. Now my readers
must understand, some of my letters were burnt
)n contempt. Then I was answered j the Lord
will in his anger bum up the land in the following
year j and it proved-so; as it was said they had done
despite to the Spirit of God, and had kindled the
anger of the Lord to a flame, which should bum
upon the land. Now the following year, 1800,
many fields of barley were so-much burnt, that they-
brought forth no grain, which produced a much
greater scarcity and dearth than the former; and
bad other nations met with the like affliction, so as
to have prevented their sending us a supply, we
should have wanted bread before the harvest.
I was then ordered to get my writings printed,
and if there were found just men and ministers to
search out the truth of them, I was promised the
harvest in 1801 should produce great-plenty, (see
page 18 of my first book.) So ministers did begin
to search out the truths of my writings as soon as
10
Digitized by Google _ . . j
they were made public; the harvest was abundant,
as promised; and the heavy load of the land began
to lessen, vas the ministers and other good men had
lessened mine. Now if any man, endowed with
sense and reason, believes the sacred truths of
the Bible, that the eye of the. Lord is every where'
present, round our beds and round our paths, and
all our words and ways are open before him, then
all these things were open to his view. The Lord
knew I had written; he would deal with men as
men" dealt with me. But can you believe the
Lord would verify these words, if the Lord had not
spoken them himself? Certainly not. I must first
believe there is no knowledge in the Most High,
before I can believe1these truths would have fol­
lowed, had they not been spoken by the Most High ^
He that spoke them, had power to fulfil them as he
hath done; and I believe it to be from that Su­
preme Power alone, who governs the world, per­
suaded that no other power can make the sun
and rain obey him.
Now 1 shall proceed to give the answer of the
Spirit to what is here written.
11
€i Now thou hast ended, Pll begin*
Awake, ye simple sons of men!
And from the death of sin arise,
And then PH open all your eyes.
Can you suppose a woman’s hand
Could in such order ever stand,
In perfect truth and a straight line,
Unless the writings all were mine ?
No— men, PH prove you’re totally dead,
Pluck’d from the root, as then I said;
Because yourselves you pluck’d from me ;
For good and evil on the tree
That was of knowledge there was plac’d
I’ll answer now the fallen race.
Digitized by Google
The angels that I cast from'heaven '
Had knowledge to them surely given,
Which they pronounced to be good,
And so the tree of knowledge stood :
Tbe under branches I plac'd there
To ibew, if he did man ensnare.
That to his knowledge man would come—
The good, I now shall shew to man,
Is like the grains of wheat that die
. And in tbe earth conceal'd to lie, • "
And do appear first like a blade,
And afterwards each ear is seed,
First for to shoot, and to appear,
And then the blossom you see clear,
Before it comes to perfect corn,
To 1>ring tbe increase unto man.
“ So here the parable is plain—
You know my wheat I called man;
- That first I told him be should die;
And can you prove 1 then did lie ?
’For nothing hot thfe blades appear
In every age— I now see clear
, There's nothing but the blade in man ;
His wisdom, like the wheat, is gone
Dead in the bowels of the earth,
So perfectly the scripture saith;
And when the blades of wheat appear,
Tbe husbandman may ask you there.
What seed he in the field did sow ?
Thousands will say, they do not know,
Before by them the ear is seen.—
And now to reason 1'U begin,
And like the husbandman appear—
M y seed is sown, I tell you here;
And as the blades of wheat you See,
Tbe husbandman now asks of ye,
What seed is sown amongst the ground £
My word's the wheat-?—the blade is found
Among the nations now to spring.
And hire's the mystery of the thing:—*
Let any husbandman appear, ^
He’d fell the sowers wheat was there;
While those who did not understand,
A different grata tbey might command,
IS
Digitized by Google
And say ’twas barley, oats, or rye 5
And perfect so my word doth lie— :
Until my harvest does appear, . ; .
Thousands know not wbat grain w here;
But every husbandman can see, , .
Before the time, what grains* they hew
“ So let a husbandman appear, N
Whom with myself l do compare t . 1
Then by the blade he’U surety know /. '
The wheat is sown, the Wades do grow ' .
So different from another blade; . / . '
The husbandman is not misled. 1 , »
So now, my friends, Fve shewn you heru ; :
How with myself I you compare, r
Who can be judges of the word, *
And say the writings came from G od;
But you that cannot see it clear,
Confess no husbandmen ye are,
That are acquainted with my ways, ; : ;
And so the Wade deceives your eyes. .
In every ago this liaih been done, .
My words were like the seeds thus sown,
And when the blades to man appear,
None but the husbandmen saw clear
That e’er the seed could be my word, ,
Nor judg’d the husbandman the Lord %
Unless their spirits join’d with me,
Then liusbaadmea alike must be.
So here the parable is plain 5 , , ,
I’ve answered now the sons of men ;
And if the word you do not know,
Give to my husbandmen their due,
That the true judges they must be, /
Who join in husbandry with m b ; ^ .
And you as well may give it up,
As you would do the sower’s crop \
For when the harvest doth appear, (
You must confess the sower there
Was the true judge what he did saw, '
And you’d no wisdopi for to know
What seed was bury’d in the earth—
Now mark the Spirit what it saith;
For deep’s the parable for man;
fo r none can judgp thy written hand*
13
Digitized by Google
Who have no knowledge of my ways.
Nor know the wheat I mean to raise
' * Unto the blossom of the ear,
And fast my harvest shall appear;
For man is like the blade of wheat,
And from the earth I first rais'd i t ;
And then I said that roan should die,
And so your corn does always lie
Bury’d in the earth below;
And perfect so the man doth grow;
Man with the blade 1 shall compare—
A mystery deep 1 now will clear:
When him t had pronounced dead,
How could 1 deem him but a blade,
Before the ear began to shoot ? '
And here’s man in bis perfect state:
For by the forming of the ear;
‘ The blossom does in man appear,
And some do kern to perfect wheat,
And so doth man, without deceit,
Come perfect as the wheat doth grow:
And some are deaf, you all do know;
And perfect so are many men,
The rust arid canker in the grain •
Do perfect so in roan appear.
But now my harvest I shall dear—
If knowledge to the woman came,
To give that knowledge unto man,
To bring the knowledge of the first,
Then from her must the knowledge burst;
Or men and devils they may boast, '
Their M ak Bit’s wisdom it was lost,
When first the woman he did form
To be a helpmate unto m a n ,
To bring him into misery—
And now, ye blind, begin to see,
If she don’t help him out again,
Your M a k e r 's wisdom’s all in vain,
To make her to complete your bliss:
Then paradise you all must miss.
1 ask, how man I can redeem,
By any promise made to him, ,
, Wherein the woman did not stand \
To share the promise made with man ?
For if the mail was made at first,
I told you he must be the last;
14
Digitized by Google
And if the woman was the last* .
I toJd you she must be the first.
“ When I the mysteries all do deaf)
And my first words perform’d'them here)
That every thing I said was good)
Too high for man my knowledge stood)
For he to pluck against my w ill; -
And Satan shall his folly feel, ;
As he so soon reveal’d the wholes
To bring destruction then on all*
Then here the fool’s bolt it was shot)
And so he dug the fatal pit)
And laid thp nettherein to fall* * .
Then now be wise, I tell you all '
The woman's promise for to claim ;
Then man/ you know, I must redeem \
For when the woman is made free.
Then perfect heirs you all must be ; -
O r how could she bring on your fall t '
Dead to all knowledge ye are all.
O r soon you’d see the mystery clear—
“ Our maker never judg’d her here
“ A thing inferior so to man,
“ If he the world for her condemn^,
“ Whom he said should complete man’s Wist j
But then the promises did miss)
As Satan robb’d man of his store— " _
But is your Master grown so poor)
That he cannot repay that lbss, ' *
Enoch his children 45 at first)
And cancel all before his bar)
And east the thief that robjb’d them there f-
But how shall I bestow my store, *
Seeing the thief stands at the door/
Ready to steal the whole away -
Mark well the words that now I say: -
When 1 my people do redeem
'From every power of hell and sin.
Your houses 1 shall build anew.
And palaces bring to your view; *
For golden mines I h&ve in stoije;
The foaming seas shall send on shore >
Millions of. treasure hid therein;
And mines.of diamonds shall be seen,, .
' - 15 - '
Digitized by Google
O f pearls, and every precious stone;
I’ve mines conceal’d from men unknown ;
I’ve gold of Ophir, that shall come
To build Jerusulem up again;
And those that are the first redeem'd
May say, these promises we claim.
“ It is conceal'd from every eye
What a new earth you’ll find is vigh,
When l begin to shew my store,
And make the barren mountains here
Become to man a fruitful field; •
And all the forests too shall yield
A pleasant pasture then for man;
The furious beasts shall all be tame;
And every house I’ll build anew ;
And bring the mysteries to your view.
When paradise you do regain,
A paradise must be for men,
Or how my kingdom can it be ?—
Now let the blind begin to see
What heathen nations do possess,
While Satan’s kingdom I call th* ;
For well you know l told you here,
Satan will as a god appear
Over the world, to blind your eyes—
And now my little dock grow wike ;
For I shall claim the earth my own;
The heathen nations shall dethrone.
You’ll find your war is not begun;
I told you, when you thought 'twould end,
Sadly mistaken all would he;
"Trias not begun, you all would see.
And so you’ll find ’tie not begun;
You little think what's hastening on*
To bring it to an Eastern war;
And all shall know the end is near,
As they a heathen nation be,
The promis’d land possess, you si?e.
When I cut off the perfect foils,
As Satan’s arts did man ensnare,
I gave their natron to such men
As in spirit did act like them t
For Satan’s kingdom then did fight,
(Bring every mystery to you* right)* .
16
/
And he did every battle gain—
Myself and brethren then were slain;
For my disciples dy’d for me,
And Satan got the victory;
And so his servants I plac'd there—
He got his victory then by w ar;
Ana so I let the tyrant reign.
But now the mystery I'll explain ;
When I cut off the perfect heirs,
Nothing but bondmen then appear’d ; '
And bondwomen they surely be;
But now the heirs I mean to free,
And all theses bondmen I’ll cast out,
And the true heirs have nought to doubt $
For I'll cut off the bastard race,
And in their stead the true heirs place
For to possess that very land. ,
And now, my friends, you may demand
T o stand like princes ki the fight—
And now I’ll bring the truth to light;
So let my Gospel now appear 2
You know my vineyard once was there,
And all my servants they did kill,
And so the Hei? his blood did spill,
And all the vineyard claim’d their own,
As in my Gospel it is shewn;
But then I told you what I’d d o —
Bring every mystery to your v ie w ;
When 1 the vineyard come to claim,
I said these mep must all be'slain.
So now’s the time I’ll slay them all;
The vineyard’s m ine; the Lord doth call,
Who will these husbandmen destroy ? .
For the true heirs shall now enjoy
Every vineyard that is mine,
And the true heirs with me I’ll jpin.
And now I’ll tell you that each heir
* Is him who doth in faith appear,
Believes my Gospel I’ll fulfil,
And all these husbandmen will kill,
W ho’ve no right longer to possess,
When I bring in my Gospel peace;
For then the rebel he must fell,
And so his servants they must all
“ So now you’ll find the time’s at hand .
When I my vineyard shall demand,
B '
17
Digitized by Google
And all my Bible will fulfil.
Then now, ye learned, try your skill;
And let Jehoshaphat appear,
You all will find the valley near,
And 1 shall come to plead with all—
So, men, together you I call
T o judge your Bible and my Word :
And then aright you’ll use the sword;
Or else your bow you’ll draw in vain,
And by the enemy be slain;
But if you let the Lord direct,
In every battle Pll protect;
For Pm the Lord does it declare:
Obey my word you've nought to fear;
But if you run against my word,
You all will find that Pm the Lord.
For now's the time that Satan's host
Must fall like Pharaoh's, near the coast;
That is, to perish in the deep—
Rejoice, my friends 5 your foes must weep.
As Satan's victories are all past;
I'll gain the victories at the last.
“ And now'a mystery I'll explain
Unto the learned sons ot men,
And bring them to the prophet's word,
And let them know with one accord,
- Joshua the high priest was seen,
With Satan reaay to condemn;
As he with Joshua did appear,
The Lord rebuk'd the tempter there—
But now the mystery I'll explain:
Jerusalem was then unclean,
And so unclean proceeded on,
And filthy garments so become;
And all are filthy gahnents there;
But now the mysteries I shall d e a r:
Out of the fire they now shall come,
And pluck'd from those that are unclean;
For change of garments, all shall see,
A change of people now shall be."
18
I shall defer the continuation of this subject for
a while, and insert the vision of Mr. B. Bruce.
Digitized by
Mr. B. Bruce was favoured with the following?
vision of the night, between the 3d and 4th o*
March, 1795.
“ After offering up my earnest prayer and thanks­
giving to God for all his mercies and dispensations
to his humble creatures here upon earth; and par­
ticularly for the inestimable blessings bestowed on
me, in placing before my eyes, in such strong co­
lours, the total dependence of man on his Creator’s
wisdom and goodness; I began to make my suppli­
cations to God, that he would vouchsafe to en-
. lighten my understanding, and open my spiritual
sight, so as to enable me to discover clearly and un­
equivocally the truth or falsehood of Mr. Brothers’a
pretensions and mission, when I suddenly found
myself removed from the room I was then in to
the garret, where I continued to pray and pour out
my soul to my blessed Lord ana Saviour; and he
was graciously pleased to hear my prayer; for I
thought (and the impression is indelibly stamped
on my heart) an angel approached me in the hu-
' man shape, with a dignity and grace that instantly
infused a degree of ecstasy and confidence through
my whole frame, far beyond the power of language
to express or describe. I felt as it were transported
from misery to felicity, from earth to heaven ! -
The angel assured me, in, terms the most distinct
and forcible, “ that the wickedness, presumption, and
“ apostacy o f mankind, had reached the highest .
“ heavens; and thflt the_long-suspended wrath o f
“ God was now pouring forth on the earth, which
“ alone would bring its inhabitants to a sense o f
“ their own depravity, as xvellas their own duty to and
“ dependence on an offended though merciful Creator;
and that thesejudgments would be made manifest
B 2
19
Digitized by v^oosle
“ through M r. Brothers, as those upon Egypt were
“ by M oses” The angel then vanished from ray
sight, and which was immediately followed by a
sharp angry voice* distinctly uttered from the
clouds, “ M y power and vengeance shall be made
“ manifest and severelyfe lt by this obdurate people F*
I then thought I left the garret and went out into
the street (though it was in the night,) and found
several people in motion, particularly a gentleman
of my acquaintance, a violent opposer o f M r.
Brothers, who had also heard the voice, and was ,
very much alarmed. Whilst I was speaking to him
about so dreadful a denunciation, and the threatening
appearance of the clouds, the wind increased to such
a degree as to shake the house we were then in (for
during the conversation we had entered his house)
so violently, that 1 did not think or feel myself safe,
and immediately returned home, where I found my
wife praying in the parlour, in which I joined her ;
and soon afterwards the same angel appeared to us
both, assuring us that “ the Almighty would pre~
“ sently pass through the streets o f London in a vio~
“ lent whirlwind and storm,” and then left us. I
then thought the firmament was remarkably clear
and serene, in order to make the approach of the
Almighty more manifest. Whilst we were waiting
in great anxiety and awe, I cast my eyes to the earth
(for we had been looking some time very stedfastly
towards heaven,) when I found myself by the edge
' of a beautiful piece of water, in which two boys were
bathing, and who seemed to be in danger of drown­
ing, although they succeeded in getting safe to the
shore. At this moment I found myself naked, and
awoke very much agitated, though pleased with
my dream.
B. Bru c e.
20
Digitized by Google
21
»
LETTER HI.
»
't
Basil Bruce, Esq. to Joanna Southcolt.
London, 20th Oct. 1801.
My dearly beloved Sister in the Lord,
On my return to town the other day,
my eyes were unexpectedly feasted and my heart
rejoiced with' your very kind and vvondrous letters
to my dear wife, my father, and myself'; hut to at­
tempt to describe the emotions of my soul, or the
feelings of a heart fraught with the love of God,
would be in vain; suffice it therefore to say, they
were truly heavenly, and consequently in perfect
union with your divine writings. But when 1
think of the great mercy and loving-kindness of the
Lord, in deigning to chuse me an instrument in
his hand to forward the great work to which you are
called, and to sit injudgment too, I am overwhelmed
in tears, and lost in wonder! I know my own un­
worthiness and total inability, and that 1 am not fit
to be called his servant. 1 stand self-condemned,
and am frequently lost in wonder how the Lord
should bestow any blessings on such an evil corrupt
worm as 1 am 1 but then the transporting thought
rushes in and assures me there is one, even Christ
Jesus our Lord, who took our nature upon him, and
fulfilled the law and all righteousness, that in the
end it might be imputed to us; and that old serpent >
the devil receive the just reward of his transgres-
' sion. For so far does the astonishing mercy and
love of God surpass the utmost strength of human
capacity to conceive, that he assures man by the
• < >
Digitized by Google
mouth of his prophet (Isaiah, c. i. v. 18.) “ Though
“ your sins be 9s scarlet, they shall be as white
“ as snow; though they be-red like crimson, they
**shall be as wool; if ye be willing and obedient,”
&c. And again, (Iv. 7.1 “ Let the wicked for-
“ sake his way, and tne unrighteous man his
“ thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and
*f he will have mercy upon him ; and to our God,
“ for he will abundantly pardon.”— “ Come unto me
“ all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I wilt
“ give you rest,” saith our blessed Saviour himself.
On these and such like assurances rest all my hope
and confidence; and therefore, however sensible I
may be of my own unworthiness and incompetency,
I'joyfully accept the arduous station to which it has
pleased God to call m e; prostrating myself before
the throne of grace, imploring with all humility his
Spirit to direct my trembling steps and guide my
weak judgm ent; O that I may be wise and have my
lamp trimmed! for I know that the midnight hour
approaches when there will be a sudden cry, *
* Be-
“ hold the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet
“ him.” I hope, however, I have not altogether
been like the unprofitable servant who hid his talent
in the earth, but trust in confidence in the love of
God to clothe me in a wedding garment, that I
may gd up rejoicing to the marriage feast! Not to
occupy too much of your precious time in giving
v«Ot to the effusions of my soul, you will see, by
what I have already said, that I am ready to sit in
judgment against myself and all mankind, to free
the woman, and pray God to cast all on Satan, that
arch enemy of the human race. I have constantly
prayed for the coming of Christ’s peaceable king-
, dom ; and for these last six years have fully be­
lieved, through the inspired writings of Richard
Brothers, (as you would see by my printed testi-'
22
Digitized by Google
mony, sent you by my wife,) that I should live to
see the glory burst on an astonished and benighted
world: and it has been no small comfort to me,
under all the buffettings and persecutions of the
worldly-wise, to be blessed with a wife, whose
sentiments and faith are in perfect unity with my
own, so that within the small circle of my own fa­
mily I may say- we have a foretaste of the promised
regeneration, or heaven upon earth, which we hope
to see established over the whole world: six amia­
ble and well-disposed children are the fruit of our
happy union. But to return to your letters. I
cannot sufficiently express to you my grateful feel­
ings for your very kind letter of the 2d Sept, to
think the Lord should have influenced me to fulfil
your dream of 1795, and since, in assisting you at
the very time you needed it. Six weeks before it y
happened I had a strong desire to send you a small
token of my love towards you. I told my father
my intention before he went into the country, I
wrote to my sister Beecraft, and spoke to some
other friends on the same -subject, in order that it
might be the more worth your acceptance; but it is
evident God had his own time to do it in, as I could
not -carry the desire of my heart into execution a
day sooner than I did : and I am quite satisfied that
his time is the best, as he best knows how and when
to fulfil, his own word. I am alto well persuaded
my journey to the country was well ordered, as
whilst I was endeavouring to forward the work of
the Lord there, my wife had a great work to per­
form totally unknown to me, bqt for which .1 love
her, if possible, more than ever, and am truly thank­
ful to God for deeming her worthy of so great an
honour. The first I knew of it was by your wonder­
ful and love-inspiring letter to her on the occasion,,
which she sent for my perusal, and in the reading of
23
Digitized by G o o g l e
which aloud in the presence of my father, sister,
and brother, I was frequently interrupted by the
tears of joy gushing from my astonished eyes: in*
deed we were all in tears on the happy and ever*
memorable occasion ! but it is utterly impossible to
describe a hundredth part of what I then felt, and
do now feel. Gratitude, love, and holy joy, and all
these celestial sensations, were equally excited by
your divine letters of the 8th, 10th, and 11th Oct,
as well as those to Messrs. Webster and Sharp, co-
§
ies of which I have had, but I must wait to see Mr.
'oley’s till his return from Suffolk, where he has
been gone near a fortnight.
You may be sure we are fully satisfied with the
prolongation of your father’s life, which is not only
. more convincing than would have been his death at
the appointed time, but which could not be otherwise
to fulfil the scriptures; and here I cannot forbear
to exclaim with St. Paul, “ O the depth of the
“ riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of G od!
“ how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways
H past finding out.” As to your giving way to sor­
row and anxiety I am not surprised at, for whatever
portion of his Divine Spirit it may please the Lord
to give us, the time is not yet come to be placed be-
yqnd the reach of human feelings j for till we are
divested of human nature, we must be more or less
subject to those feelings: and if it were not so, how
could Mr. Brothers’s words be true, where he says
in his last publication, that “ This is the hour o f
f<tria l: it is the hour that tries the fa ith o f every
“ living soul on earth /” It was truly said of our
Lord himself, that “ He was a man of sorrows and
«
*acquainted with grief.” And the divine Psalmist
says, exjx. 71, “ It is good for me that I have
24
Digitized by Google
' M
been afflicted, that I might learn thy statute*.”
And in Psalm , cxl. 12. “ 1 know the Lord
will maintain the cause of the afflicted.” The
Lord also says by Zephaniah, iii., 18, “ I will ga­
ther them .that are sortowful,” &c. This in my
opinion is so necessary and wholesome to keep us
humble, that I am convinced God frequently per­
mits us to be instruments of trials to each other,
and certainly allows great bodily afflictions to over­
take the very best of nis servants. Observe, I do not
mean to apply this last observation to you, as I never
met with a person possessing so completely humble
and Christian a spirit in ray life. But how can it be
otherwise, while you are led so powerfully by the
Lord to will and to do of his good pleasure ? As to
the trouble, opposition, and distress you experienced
at the publication of your fourth book I am not at
all surprised at; because, as you say, you was or­
dered to print a thousand of each volume till you
came to the sixth, which was a deep mystery, it
would not have corresponded with the six days of
creation, or the six periods or epochas of the world,
unless the powers of darkness had united all their
means to stop your hand, and so put out the light
and life, bursting upon the world at that particular
period; for we know it was on the fourth day
that God divided or separated the light from the
darkness, by creating the sun to rule the day, and
die moon to rule the night; and it was also at the
end of the fourth period or epocha of the world,
that our blessed Lord and Saviour came in the
flesh to bring life and immortality to light: so that
at these particular periods we find the powers of
darkness, or Satan and his infernal host, exerting
their utmost fury and strength, using every vile
Stratagem to shut out the light, and so preserve
Digitized by
their reign; but your having fought the good fight;
withstanding his temptations, and by the grace of
God overcoming the enemy, you have nothing more
to fear; he will of necessity retire from the field,
and your’hands continued to l>e strengthened more
and more till the conquest is complete, and your
army, or rather Christ’s army, rend the air with
joy!
M r. Brothers’6 hand was forged just like yours;
but of this, and others things relative to him, you
will undoubtedly know more hereafter; for I could
point out many instances wherein you and him ex>
actly resemble each other, and it must be 30 to
bring us back to the paradisiacal state of man; for
as male and female were but one perfect man before
the separation of Eve from Adam’s side, so I con­
ceive the regeneration of man, the new heavens and
new earth, or Christ’s glorious kingdom of peace,
muet commence with that last best work of crea­
tion, “ lovely woman,” being reunited with man in
principle, in spirit, and in love. This is the leaven
that will leaven the whole lum p! And as in the
beginning God created man first, so he in the same
order is preserved at this last period. He (Mr.
Brothers)' first stood forth to the world in the
divide principle, publicly prophesying the great
events of this momentous crisis, and denouncing
God’s judgments against the wicked, and then falls
under the power of Satan, who through the human
power immures him in a prison; when, wonderful
instance of divine love! God brings forth his better
half (yourself) prophesying the same things to
the world, and denouncing the same judgments,
with the additional light and power to cast Satan
and rescue man; so that he must remain in
his present state of subjection, to fulfil the scrip-
22fr
©ou^Itr
Digitized by
tures and his own writings, till the woman frees his
chain.
I shall take the liberty to send you a dream I
was favoured with some years ago, which is the
more remarkable, as I seldom or ever receive
communications through that medium; and perhaps
the Lord may give you the interpretation of the
latter part of it, where I found myself naked, &c.
May it not mean, that the Lord will in his great
mercy and goodness strip me of every selfish prin­
ciplef And for the same reason (though I hope
you will not impute it to the very principle I.wifh
to be stripped of) I shall trouble you with a singular
dreamvof Mrs. Field about me and my family. J^ut
I have always resisted any rising propensity to be­
lieve in it, as leading to that great enemy of spiri­
tual blessings, pride and vanity; for it is by far too
flattering,, and I know I do not in the least deserve
any such reward. Indeed if it were possible to live
fre e from sin (which it is not), and I was able to
discharge all the duties o f a Christian, what claim
have I to reward for simply doing my duty to.God
and my neighbour? I am therefore inclined to
stand afar oft and say with the publican, “ God be
merciful to me a sinner.” And if there be found
any good in me, I must say with St. Paul (1 Cor.
xv. 10) “ By the grace o f God I am what I am*’
I have sent my father (who is still in Lincolnshire)
your last letter, together with copies of all the
others, so that I have no doubt you will receive a
grateful acknowledgment in a few days. I hope you
have ere-this received a testimony from the Rev.
Mr. Mossop, of Deeping St. James, who is fully sa­
tisfied from whence your writings flow, and assured
me he should write before I left the country. He
27
Digitized by C j o o g l e
2a
is a very worthy and zealous minister, and would,
in my humble opinion, be a desirable witness; but
the Lord knows best, and will direct you accord­
ingly : and I may say the saute of my friend
•Wm. Bryan, who is a firm believer in your divine
writings, and is a very spiritual man, and a highly
favoured character. If I offend in presuming to
snake these observations, I humbly beg pardon, and
hope it will be imputed to the right cause, viz. my
zeal for the Lord's glory and your high calling; and
although my apparent neglect of not answering your
kind letter sooner might render that zeal question­
able, yet I hope you will make allowances for my
absence from home* and the many unavoidable
tilings I had to attend to immediately after my return.
Mr. Charles Taylor spent the evening with us four
or five days ago, and told us he bad written to his
father. He is a fine youth, very sensible, and I
have no doubt well disposed; and as such it will al­
ways give us particular pleasure to shew him every
attention. He safely delivered your letters to Mr.
Morris, of whom you speak in your letter to my
wife. She begs to join me in the most cordial and
sincere love, and praying the Almighty to shower
down an everlasting succession of his choicest
blessings on your head. We also beg you will re-
, member us in the kindest manner to Mr. and Mrs.
Taylor, to whom we return our sincere thanks for
their very friendly invitation. I know my wife will
be very much disappointed if she does not accom­
pany me to Exeter, and yet 1 am afraid her business
and family concerns will be insurmountable obsta­
cles at that period; and it is probable her situation
may render her incapable of travelling so far, as
she will at that time be near seven months advanced
in pregnancy; but as all things are possible to God,
i
a - Digitized Ir •m
if he is willing, I know she is also; for our blessed;
Lord says, “ Seek ye first the kingdom of God and
his righteousness, and all other things shall be
added unto you,” to which I say, Amen, Amen l
Grace be unto you and peace be multiplied. W ith
all humility and respect I subscribe myself,
Your very affectionate fellow-labourer in the t
Lord’s vineyard,
BASIL BRUCE.
29
Thursday Night, 22nd OcU
I finished the preceding part of this letter at two
o’clock this morning, fully intending to forward it
by to-night’s mail, when behold, about eleven
o’clock this forenoon, we were surprised and de­
lighted at the receipt of your invaluable present of
spiritual food. I exclaimed, the mercy or the Lord
breaks in upon us more and more, thanks be unto
1his holy name ! Your divine letters to my father
are more astonishing than ever; new lights break­
ing in upon us in every direction, but language
cannot express our ravished senses at the perusal
of them. In the course of the day the Rev. Mr.
Webster called, in hopes of hearing something of
you, and he was amply rewarded and fully grati­
fied ; he then went tor M r. Sharp, and returned
here with him ; in the mean time Mr. V ra. Bryan-
came in ; so that altogether we passed a most de­
lightful and heavenly evening; all were equally
surprised and gratified; and we all agreed irf opi­
nion, that not a day should be lost in arranging the
letters for the press, in obedience to our blessed
Lord’s gracious commands. I shall write to myhither
Digitized by
so
to-morrow, inclosing your letters, and have net
doubt of their bringing him to London in two or
three days, to perform the work the Lord has as-
signed him, and in which I am sure we shall all be
very happy and ready to assist him.
I do not wonder at your observations to M r.
Busby (to whom I sent your letter) and to my fa­
ther on Mrs. Field’s coronation dream ; for it is no
doubt wisely ordered as a seasonable check to some
believers, who probably may unintentionally sink part
of the glory and honour exclusively due to our
Lord and Saviour, in their adoration of Richard
Brothers’s person and character; but I hope we are
all quite sensible, that all the honour and glory,
riches and dominions, principalities and powers,
entirely and exclusively belong to the Captain of
our Salvation, Christ Jesus our Lord; we know1
without his Sprit Richard Brothers can do nothing ;
and I am certain he is in himself, if possible, quite
as humble, in spirit, as yourself; but this does
not surely preclude our belief iu his revelations, or
respect for his person. We have the most unques­
tionable proof of his divine communications, by the
constant and wonderful fulfilment of his predic­
tions, and a thousand other things equally strong,
which a letter could not contain. Indeed, you
yourself bear the strongest testimony of him by the
spirit, without perhaps its being known to your­
self. I therefore rest in full confidence in the good­
ness of God to make every mystery clear in due time.
On reading this letter to my wife since it was
written, she cried very much at what 'I had said
about her not being able to visit you, and is very
sorry indeed that 1 said any thing about it, so
much is she set on coming. So I must leave aU
to the Lord, who will not leave his people comfort­
less and without strength to bear the burden he
may lay upon them.
/
Again, farewell! and God bless you, my dear
sister in the Lord.
BASIL BRUCE.
31
Now having given my readers some of the letters
sent to me by Mr. B. Bruce, exactly as I received
them, I shall proceed to lay before them the man­
ner in which his dream or vision is explained to me
from the Bible j but I shall first call to their recol­
lection his being compared as a type of Christ in
my letters before his death; and inform them, that
previous to his death he was chosen with his ho­
noured and worthy father, the Rev. Stanhope
Bruce, to judge of my writings and loose the seven
seals; but whdn the appointed time drew near that
he was to come down to Exeter to prove .them,
the worthy gentleman was persuaded by many not
to go, and they endeavoured to convince him the
writings were not of the Lord. Thus persuaded,
and a letter having been sent to London by a cler­
gyman of Exeter, caused doubts to arise in his
mind, which made him halt between two opinions,
and which his worthy father tried to reason him
out of, wishing him to have salt in himself. But
to clear all doubts in his mind, he was lain on a
sick bed; and his father, whose faith was strong
in the Lord, left him very ill, to proceed to Exeter
and search out the truth of what he had heard;
and as he was journeying thither, to prove the
truth concerning Christ’s peaceable kingdom here
Digitized by b o o g i e
upon the earth, his son departed this Kfe, to pas*
sess the glorious kingdom of Christ in heaven; far
as he saw through a glass but darkly, he was taken
to see face to race. Now follows the answer of
the Spirit to this mystery.
i
“ Let the dead hear my voice and live ; and let
the living lay it to heart; for now I will tell thee
all the mysteries of Bruce. He is the man-child
caught up to God and to his throne: for Satan
stood before him to devour his faith, and fill him
with doubts as soon as he was born. For he that
is born of God sinneth not, neither chargeth he
God foojishJy; and his letters shew he does not
charge God foolishly, neither is there guile found in
them. By the fulness of the heart the mouth
speaketh, that he is born of G od; and so thou hast
brought him forth to the world a priest and pro­
phet ; and all shall find his prophecies true: for he
was to rule the nations with a rod of iron, and
with a rod of iron he shall tread down the powers o f
darkness; and to him shall be given die key of the
bottomless p it; for he is sealed to the day of re­
demption ; that is, to be redeemed from death, heU,
and sin, and to burst the bars of the grave. But as
the spirit of Elijah fell on Elisha, so must his spirit
fall on man, to go through all his priestly office
here on earth. He that hath ears to hear, let him
hear j and he that hath eyes to see, let him see;
and he that hath an heart to understand, let him
understand. The promise was made to Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob; but in Isaac aU the families of the
earth were to be blessed: and from Isaac’s wife came
twain, Jacob and Esau, the two diderent nations;
but Jacob robbed Esau, and Esau hated Jacob.
So here are the two nations, kingdom and people—
Satan’s and mine. So now the eld#* shall serve
32
the younger ; for now the heathen nations shall be ■
given to all the seed of Isaac. As Isaac stood to
his word, I have blessed him; yea and he shall be
blessed; and this blessing shall now rest on man*,
kind: J have blessed them ; yea, and they shall be
blessed; and the gates of hell shall not prevail
against them. For as the twain struggled in Re*
be'cca’a womb, so do-the two now struggle in the
Womb of Providence j and he that sells his birth­
right to the promise that is made him, for a present
reward, shall Jose his blessing, as Esau did; but he
that listens to the voice of the woman, as Jacob did,
shall enjoy all the promises made to Jacob. For
in Rebecca stands the type of the last days: the
woman must gain the promise for m an; and ye are
all Jacobs that will obey her voice, as Jacob obeyed;
for tlie voice of the woman is die voice of the Lord,
to take the blessing from Salas, who was before
man, as Esau was before Jac o b ; for Satan was the
elder, and his birthright was in heaven; but he sold
Us birthright there; and when he came on the earth,
he came to the woman, as the first bom ; but when
she knew him she did not love him, and east,her
blame upon him, though she put Iris clothing on
man, by giving him the forbidden fruit; but man
seemed as though he had loved him, by casting the
blame On bis Maker. But now the woman may say
unto all men, as Rebecca said to Jacob—put on an
die words of Satan, and so come before the Lord—
“ we are thy sans, tby very sons, thy first-born, who
were to be as gods, knowing good from evil:” then
here is the feeling that resembles Esau’s (or like
the devil’s, because they are his words,} but the
voice is like Jacob’s, as man’s voice has been diffe­
rent from Satan’s, who was like Jacob: and now
shall they find, Jacob have I loved, and Esau have }
bated; for these twain have been struggling in the
c
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
womb of Providence, from the foundation of fife
World 5 but a i Rebecca got the blessing for Jacob,
ahd disinherited Esau •; so the'woman d aiming her
.promise, Isaac’s- seed,’ by faith obeying her voice, •
are sealed to the day of redemption ;and it is not aH
the powers of earth and hell, shall' now disinherit
them ; for wrestling-Jacobs shall be prevailing Is­
raels; and I will give them the heathen'nations for
their inheritance, and the uttermost parts ofcthe
earth for their possession; for’aa princes they shall
have poWer with God.
*
' * ^i
f‘ But I will now tell yotrthe mystery.' So let it
bfe known unto all men,- that as they were sealed
together, for the day of redemption, and coming
from different counties," i>
to- prove the truth, of
my peaceable kingdom here on earth, be ’that
was like Jacob, and began to halt between- two
opinions, seeing but through a glass darkly, was
taken to my kingdom, to.’ See rface to face; lA nd
this shaft be a sign unto uH imert, he that believes in
'my word, and relies on ray promises, ,shah inherit
my,kingdom here,' andhave. acrown of never-fadirig
gloryi' hereafter. For now:the halting Jacob ifc
coroebfeforeme as a priCce, to receive powferfrom
his God-,.and .hisdame shall h£ called -IsraeJr and
he shali intercede for all .the true ’Israel of God.
So he that has ears-to hearpfethim heanw hatthe
Spirit and the Bride say—*“ Awake them that sleep*,
and arise from the dead,, and Christ .wilftgive them
life.” . So whomsoever, will come, -may .come,
and drink of the waters of life freely.” ■
*
: "
■
But now I shall, lay before you.anothertmystery,
from the fifth chapter of. Rdvelations. Whdn" the
seven seals were first prbduced,- thete Was not’found
. any man in heaven, nor on1earth, nor linder the
34
Digitized by Google
earth, who was able to .loose the seals. Now where
is the man who can by learning explain this mys­
tery P'Yet I shall give you the explanation from
Mr. Basil Bruce’s' dream, which is in page 19 of
this book, and likewise from a dream of .my own,
both of which were explained together,’ March,
1802.
I dreamt I was at the altar, and saw the moon
before it, and a magnifying glass before the moon,
which rendered it more large, and bright; as coals
of fire. In the moon there appeared,.a,lion and a
lamb standing together, ana .nearly b£ the same
colour as the .moon, only the lion anil the lamb look­
ed much brighter and fiercer -than the moob. Here
is the answer of the Spirit to it. j , 'A
35
i
“ Now to reason I shall como-r .. , 7/
And first I’U tell thee of the moon: - 7
The L ion a?ncj the L am^ are .there,, r 1
And now the mysteries I shall clear,; m 1
Because the Lion, all shall see,
Is Bruce in spiritcpme to m b; • t *
And he isjoined* withjthe Lamb,. 0;y ti.
And both together..on my throne, t ; . t \
Which in the moqn.did so)A p p e a r - * - . ,
Then Satan must tie (jonqueVd there; w
,;! ,\
For now to conquer I shall come ; .
And Bruce's vision,^illexplain; , (
Because that he*s transported, herey ; ;
(From earth to heaven; lpt; all sep clear $
:!! ,
And so the angels did descend v/ . iX.j X
;
To tell him then thpfidal.encl; {t r
The final end yon'll’see i?, cope, y.v
.t j ;]’
Apostate worlcf ‘you niav mock on,,, .,
Until my fury does’descend L 1/ ,.iL
For I shall h-lT,
And those who for myKii^dom thirst, ; . t/
In glorious triumph it ;sBalTburst. , i; ,1 7
Beyond the hearts and .thoughts p{/ men~-
The Revelations now are come, *
C 2
Digitized by
Which I by Bruce shall shew you plain:
H ie Lamb was by the Liou slain,
When the creation firstappear’d,
And Cain kill’d Abel, as yeu’ve beard ;
And so the Lion did go on
In furious rage to w on on man,
Until he did vent his rage on me,
And so they nail’d mb to the tree.
But now the.Lion does appear
To shut his mouth against mb here,
As Daniel found them in the den,
A id so the eaeaay was shun;
Because their mouths they open’d wide,
When that the enemy was ttyM,
Ahd Quickly <fiddestroy them all,
And! so fib*Lion Ua » I call,
Whose teeth no more shall murder mb.
But bow, my foe* you all shall see
The Lion does in heaven appear,
And you, my foes, may stand in fear,
Before you come unto my den;
Take notice, you shall all be slain,
Who wish to cast a Daniel there—
Rejoice, my friends, my foes must fomr ;
For 1 shall shut the ipoCiths of al!
That now do mock this heavenly call.
“ So here’s the mystery of the moon:
To Bruce’s vision it is com e;
For he is so transported here,
In heavenly glory does appear;
For now's the mystery of the seals,
The perfect truth i’ll how reveal.
No man on earth or heaven was found
To break the seals or judge the sound,
Until the e l Obk did appear.
Then now the mystery you see clear;
In heaven the thing could not be done,
HU Bruce ascended to my throne;
Because the Seals were given to he,
That heaven and earth alike may be;
And Bruce you know was not on earth.
Mark well the Spirit what it saith;
When they came down the seals to see,
Remember that they wept for he;I
96
I
DigitizedIbrGoogle
And some did weep, and some did mourn*
And thine own heart within did burn,
When that his death they told thee ttaret
And thou in secret wept’st in prayer*
And mourn’d the death of thy dror frond.
Whose soul to highest heaven was flown;
But then the scab could not be broke;
Men were not found; too much they mock’d
Then worthy they could never be
To loose the seals, as made by ME.
So disappointed they stood all,
As twelve together is my call* ,
Before the seab I will unloose*
And so their coming did refuse*
To have the seals be broken then*
Before I’d all my chosen men.
So here the Scriptures you see plain—
The seals were sign’d and given to m en*
But sure unable they were there*
Until the twelve do all appear.
“ But now the mystery I ’ll make plain:
In heaven could mam with me contend,
To whom I’d ne’er reveal’d the wordi
I ask you how he there could plead,
Till Bruce in person did appear ?
And now the mystery you see clear:
In heaven fior earth he could not be,
When they came down the truth to see.-?*
Three days you'wander in the air,
Then the first heaven to you appears,
And with enlightened saints do meat,
Ere you approach the judgment seat,
<And to the highest heaven you come;
Six days I tell you must be known,
Ere you in glory Can apffear,
And then my sabbath, you’ll see clear,
Shall be the seventh day for rest;
As heaven and earth alike are plac’d.
So now, I say, when they came down,
In heaven nor earthhe was not found,
Before my word was given to thee,
The seals must not then loosed be ;
Butsure I say you need net fear,
The D on of the Tribe is.near, ■
As he wasjoined to the tribe;
(The J>atb is straight, the field is wide,}
Digitized by
And seals alike to all were given ;
The seals are now in earth and heaven;
For what on earth was sealed there
Doth now to in heaven appear;
And what is sealed now in heaven
Shall to my friends on earth be given :
When they do meet to loose the seals,
Then every mystery I'll reveal;
And from ray bible you'll see clear
The w om an is your helpmate here,
To bring the knowledge of the tree;
The good and b v il both you'll see.
As she the serpent first condemn'd,
I gave the seals into her hand
And she hath given them unto men;
As she in paradise began.
Then sure the mystery now is plain,
And paradise you must regain,
If you so closely copy her,
As Adam did, you've nought to fear;
For if by her you say 'twas lost,
Mark well, her Son then paid the cost; "
Then sure her husband m m redeem—
So wake, ye simple sons of men."
38
1 shall here insert the thoughts of the seven
worthy and good gentlemen, who came, to Exeter
to examine my writings, and give their opinions on
the Sixth Book; whicn are as follows:
THOUGHTS ON T H E SIX TH BOOK,
PRINTED FOR
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
F IR S T T H O U G H T .
In the name of the all wise and most merciful
God.
Thou, O Lord, in these writings of thy servant,
Joanna Southcott, inspired, or dictated, by thy
Holy Spirit j the same which filled the hearts, and
/
%
- . ^ • Digitized by Google
spoke by the mouths of thy holy .Apostles and
Prophets of old, hast opened to us as much of thy
counsels, . and manner of acting, with the angels
who never fell, with man who did, and with Satan
and his associates,.who first rebelled .against t h e e ,
the Lord of - life and- glory, the fountain .from
whom all good and happiness flows ; and who after­
wards, by. hellish arts, endeavoured to destroy all
mankind—as far as is needful, and suited to the pre*
sent occasion ; which thou hast most graciously and
condescendingly. submitted , to <our j udgment, and
hast commanded us to declare, as far as lies within
the compass of our abilities, thy, laws, delivered in
the. everlasting.Gospel, and tby righteous dealings,
to all mankind.. With respect to myself, the view
fills me with .the highest gratitude and astonish­
ment j I am -truly sensible .of my own unworthi­
ness ; I have too frequently transgressed, thy most
holy law s; and know, that it is the. Blood of tby
dearly beloved Son Jesus Christ alone that can
wash away my sins,, and those of the whole human
race ; which h e will, do in the end, according to
what, is declared by hirpself in the Gospel, by thv
Apostle Paul, in these words—“ For tjhiswe bqtn
labour and .suffer reproach; because we trust ih
the living God, who is the saviour of all men; es­
pecially pf those that believe”—and now again by
■thy servant Joanna ; therefore I should hardly
presume to form, much less to declare, my judg­
ment on these thy wonderful works and wise pro­
ceedings, unless tflou hadst commanded it. Now
then in obedience to that command, having, pre­
viously implored the, ;gra,ce. of thy Holy Spirit ^)
enable me to decide thereon, I join with,the woman,
in praying thee to cast the blame on the dragqrj,
that old serpent, which is the devil and Satan, that
she laid.upon him at the# fall, an^. to execute the
39" ■
* . ' Digitized by b o o g i e
sentence thou didst then pronounce against him.
For my part I cannot avoid confessing, that holy
and just are thy ways, Lord God Almighty, true
and righteous are thyjudgments. 1 humbly be­
seech thee that I maynever fall from thy grace,
and that thou wouldest permit me to search out
and enable me to proclaim thy unbounded mercy,
greatness, truth, and loving kindness, throughout
tke endless duration of eternity.
SE C O N O T H O U G H T .
Thereasonings contained in this sixth Book, in
fevour of God’s Wisdom in placing man as he did
in the creation; Justice in putting down the king­
domofSatan; and Mercy intheredemptionofman
from everlasting punishment under the powers of
darkness, and taking onhimthe blame and punish-v
tnent due to man; are soconclusive, that I cannot
but acknowledge them to be from God.
t h i e d t h o u g h t .
Honour,glory, andblessing, beuntoourGadand
our dear Redeemer, Jesus Christ. How shall we
■praisethe Lord for his goodness to the childrenof
men, for his havipg revealed such knowledge to
babes and sucklings, when tothe wiseand learned
ofthis world he hasdenied it! Howwonderfulhas
this Sixth Book laid open the mysteries o f the Bible,
and has furnished the servants of the most high
God with such weapons, as neither the powers of
darkness,norall the wickednessofmenwritheable
-to stand a moment before them! May we put on
H
foewhole armour ofGod! maywe be strong/firm,
faithful,and obedient toour blessedSaviour, Jesus
■Christ! then will he send us strength, wisdom,
"faith, and courage, from his holy sanctuary; that
*W
emay be enabled to withstand all the wilesand
40
Digitized by'Google
fiery darts of Satan; that we may be enabled to
overcome all the enemies and foes of thp Captain of
our Salvation, and, through his blessing, be the
happy instruments of establishing his blessed King­
dom upon earth-; then may we rejoice with the
oil of gladness; because his bride hath made her-
self ready; and by her perfect obedience, our
deadly foe, Satan, together with his host, will be '
cast from the earth; and that promise will be soon-
fuHiUed, *
* O f the seed o f the woman bruising the ~
serpents head.**
41
F O U R T H T H O U G H T .
• I have examined and read the Sixth Part of the
writings of Joanna Southcott, and I desire to bless
the Lord for the light, life, and comfort, derived to
my soul by these inspired writings. They are like
the rest of her writings; a garden enclosed, a foun­
tain sealed from the w orld; but the Lord, in his
rich mercy to my soul, has granted me the bfossing -
whereby I have drank deeply of these living waters.
And I trust and earnestly pray the Lord will shortly
destroy Satan’s kingdom, and establish his own
upon its ruins, to the glory of his great name, and
the everlasting good and comfort of his people. •
F IF T H T H O U G H T .
The Sixth iBook written by Joanna Southcott,
must be indited by the divine Spirit of rite Lord, its
contents being both just and true. It is true that
perfect innocence must be without suspicion, and
the most easy to be deceived; the foil of the wo­
man therefore cannot be the woman's fault And
it is perfectly just that divine Love should, by his
divine wisdom, destroy the power of the devil by
the woman’s hand, whose innocence be first be­
trayed*
»
Digitized*by v ^ o o s i e
• " S IX T H T H O U G H T .
I give my judgment on Joanna Southcotfs six
books, that-they are written by the directions of the
Lord”(rod. '
S E V E N T H T H O U G H T .
I , ■
<• • • •
The, §ixth Book. In it I perceive and hear the
- voice -of |the Lord, through the woman, by the
Spirit, speaking and reasoning justly with man and
devils; and that the Son of God had suffered the
blame, which man, by the influence of the devil,
cast unjustly upon him ; apd the woman pleading
of being deceived by the devil ignorantly, and that
the devil <may be cast, and the dagger fell upon
him as the root of evil; and the Sop of God de­
clining that he now will Ji^ve his will, as the devil
and Satan has bad his wili before. And this I
perceive to be just of the Son of God, claiming his
purchased kingdom, and destroying the works of
the devil, and driving him from the face. of. the
earth, that man may serve and glorify God his
Maker, perfectly in holiness.
! , ^
This is the answer of the Spirit* to the; thoughts
of tj^e seven worthy gentlemen.
« Now these thoughts are placed by seven men,
And now this answer I do bid thee send.
The'first I thought it was for man andrME,
. That than and t in likeness should agree
Man had my image, and he had my fprm*
He had my Spirit breathed into him;
' All my thoughts were to make his bliss complete ;
v I madefa helpmate for to finish it. /
this,,I say,,., wa? ray first thought for man,
I f aws’d a sleep to bring the second on* . ; ,.
yAnd when my second did to man appear,
' Hte saw his helpmate, and admir'd heT there,
Whom Satan’s arts did instantly betray;
He broke their peace and close to them did lie*
40
Digitized by G o o g l e
And on their Maker Satan cast the blame, *
Then my third thought as quick as lightning came—*
I'd bear the blame the man did cast on m e;
And Satan should the blame was cast on be. -
So this I say was my third thought for man— *
The tree of life did in the garden stand,
And had lie eaten as pronounced dead,
Then he had liv'd for ever, as 'twas said,
Under the fall pronounced dead by me ;
Then how in life could man and I agree ?
So, to secure him from that fatal curse,
Out of the garden he was quickly cast:
And so the tree of life did there remain,
The flaming sword to cut the serpent down,
Whene'er the woman did my promise claim ;
To claim the promise I made her at first;
Then now's the time the serpent must be cast.
So if men now do miss the glorious thought,
Then their destruction is for ever wrought,
And on their heads my vengeance it must fall;
For men or devils now must pay for all.
So here I've shewn my fourth thought for man,
How to preserve him I have laid my plan.
So now my fifth thought shall to man appear—
I caus'd the ark to shew my judgment there;
And then I said mankind I would destroy;
But in the ark mankind did life enjoy.;
And on the waters then the ark did move;
And in the ark there was the harmless dove,
That brought the olive-branch of peace for man;
Even so the seal is given to thy hand;
And know, the rainbow it was plac'd by h i ;
« And know the rainbow it was sent to- thee.
So all together you may now weigh deep;
Here's every thing to save my frighted sheep..
For my sixth thought it was to build the ark,
And leave the subtle tempter in the dark; .
That as the world of sin was swept away*
Whom Satan's arts had caus'd to follow be,
Then surely after he must go the same.
And now I’ve shewn you my sixth thought for man;
Then now the seventh thought it must appear—
The brazen serpent— see the mystery clear,
That full of fire I order'd man to make,
And so that way to kill the poisonous snake,
48
?
Digitized by G o o g l e
O r lor to euro tin sting be made in m en;
And deep's the seventh thought unto you -come ;
For now the brazen serpent, all shall see,
Will cure the sting of sin for man and thee;
And all that look to me shall now receive
The promis’d blessing I to her did give.
So now the seventh I have ended here;
For man and me alike I now compare.
And let these thoughts be published to men,
And closely after let my answer com e;
For here the seven stars they did appear, . .
And in them were my seven Spirits there ;
And seven golden candlesticks they be,
As in the vision I did shew to thee;
So now the sparkling light shall soon appear;
For with the law the seven placed were, .. ■ -
To have the glorious light to Israel come,
And bring the ark back unto them again.
For by the eighth I shall the Gospel join
Unto the Revelations of St. John—
Thou putt'st my seals, the first and second star ;
And to confirm the truth I sent thee here
The promise of the Gospel with my seal.
And now the mysteries I shall all reveal:
The man and woman do together sit,
As I ordain’d to make my words complete;
And of tempUttions they do both complain;
And upon Satan both do cast the blame;
Then sure the serpent he must now be cast—
He brought my seal, which seals your peace at last;
And as the olive-branch it shall appear,
And in my book you all are sealed there;
Because a third book thou wilt have to seal,
And then the mysteries I shall all reveal;
And let that seal be scaled then within ; *
For every mystery must to all be seen.
And now I’ll tell thee why 1 plac’d this man ;
Because unto thee he did bring the seal
That shall the Revelations all reveal;
And as my picture 'doth to thee appear,
Just so my face you all shall see it dear.
One side is darken’d like the minds of men,
Whose harden’d hearts do Satan’s fetters bind;
And unto him they do give every will;
And so my blacken’d face they all shall feel.
But on the other side there is a light;
And so my friends shall find my every sight.”
44
Digitized by
45
T H E E IG H T H T H O U G H T
’ Upon the Sixth Book o f the Prophecies o f J oajtka
S o u t h c o t t , o f Exeter, respecting the day o f
Judgment—finished Jait. 9, 1602.
A dam ! where art thou ? was the call of Jehovah
to the first man after the fall. His conduct bespoke
his shame that he had sinned: naked and ashamed
he was found with human imperfect covering of
fig-leaves. The answer he gave for his dispbedience
was, “ The woman thou gavest me, gave me the
evil and I did eat !** Here he cast the blame upon
his frail partner, whereas the man and woman, be­
ing the perfect man, ought not to have been di­
vided against themselves, but ought to have been
one in spirit, and one in perpetual unity and inno­
cence. B ut the woman had sinned here*—
the ser­
pent had beguiled her in the original; there was
the source, spring, and foundation of the evil.
Here it appears the man cast foe bfame wrong, by
blaming foe Lord in saying “ foe woman thou '•
gavest me deceived me.” H e ought to have gone
further, and laid the axe of truth to the root of the
corrupt tree; and said, “ the serpent beguiled us
and toe did eat/’ Had he told the truth, he had
then sliamed, cast, and bound the devil: but, alas!
his posterity have felt foe falsehood: perpetual
evil, perpetual enmity, and perpetual falsehood
have been entailed on all. The devil f|as reigned
to this time on earth triumphant. However foe in­
finite wisdom and mercy of God was soon manifest­
ed in a promise to the seed of foe woman, in order
to comfort, and heal foe breach, by saying, that
her seed should bring the blow On Satan, and order
and unity in time should again be manifested in the
man-woman. He said to Satan, “ cursed art thou
above every creature: I have- found a ransom., I
Digitized by
■will pay the price tor the man's redemption ; and
thou shalt bear the woman’s blame; thou art a
transgressor, and thou shalt ultimately feel it; thou -
hast rebelled against the order ot my creation,
justice shall have its course; thou hast sinned
against m e , in heaven, and upon earth ; therefore,
1 will die for m an; and the woman’s blood shall
lie upon thy head: then where is thy ground on
earth-^receive thy doom, the pit; there twist in
flames,, and there thy like deceive ! Then, Cain,
receive thy doom from Abel’s blood. .Then where
.is Pharaon and his host ? Judge then, need Moses
fear?. Where is the lion fallen? and the pit has
oped its n>outh—the covering is dropt—the-Lamb .
has nought to fear—then roar no more to shake the
earth and sea. Where now is the eagle and vul-
tured host—thy wings arc plucked on earth ; she
stands defenceless, the fatal net beneath.*—The
dove now has protection; she ranges earth and
sea, and soars aloft unhurt, unfeared, to carry
peace to all.—The ark is opened now ; she brings
the olive branch ; the floods are past—where now'
is the giant race ? Who pressed on Lot ? ’Twas
thee, the proud oppressor ! where art thou now ?—
Wh.ere is thy pride and city ? Knowest thou the
words, come o u t! come o u t! let Sodom feel its
doom ? Where now is Lot ? At Zoar safe! Where
is his wife ? Is she not salt all ? The writing is on
the wall—[Thou lewdly revellest with the bowls of
God—Thy kingdom is past away—Now see my
Daniel rise— Who cast him in the den?— 'Twas
thee! Thpu rolledst the stone, thou sealedst his
doom—the roaring lion thee! Then let the stone
return, .the seal be broke, and go thou in his
stead. Where is the image of gold and Bel?
Where is proud Babel’s builder ? Confusion is thy
name : confusion is thy doom ! Let Bel asunder
burst! the pitch and tar, and walls of wood, expose
46
Digitized by Google----
thy make : deceit apd craft—and pass ip fiances
away. The God ,qf,rPauici stands-^^QaipeJr;rise
up i—six days arepasW-dfop ^yghi&<
p9^ 1fohj|re:f-
•seven,, times refined -and ,p u tte d ,M
,jn, (innpopncy
pome—
rThe emeraldi unhurt in fire displays,great
Jndah’s, son— Let -Urim’j* lig h t. ^nd ,'^pfpmijp
shine in,bright perfection’s day. The twelve mpn
standi upon the plate-r-t^ie fourth denotes grpfj:
Judah’s, so ^ who is the,,^ghtfpl heir.; - The stone?
genote johJ ‘
JC»9obts sons,;,their Kght $id quality**- •
they shine .as stars iirJesu’s Crown, uporyjtl)e.wo.-
,man’s he^d—The.,suty unveiled.shall nOw.arisen
thp moonftom scarletshaty emerge ; fhe .^ rs from
darkness paw' .sppear, to 4ight the nfidnjght-hour—
Then where •art thou,, ;0 :Sataii ? V h ereareth y
heads, ami hqrnsv.and dragon’s tail,, whiph,?sle.W
and hurt, thp-living.stars?.JvKeiie are,.j^^raysipf
.fire^thy .watery .floojd^ jBtehol^'.tbqy,; are,past
away—The w ^ m a ^ ^ p ^ ^ e e . a^p'ef^-tbe
.w ojdernessjrp^i^i^ whose^jr^rpd now
feel. The art
.^p|sjt«»w vjudge
spj,r«t fflJ t t ^ rd .-^ T h ^ sw 9td, white hpfse-rthe
King^jkmgs.hasr drpwh we^brnjng $wprdJ/dler
jficej,j e ^^iots,^raojce^THe bea$tj apd dragon*
•ue. tmouptain, rtfee,: no: pporp;shall htp^ \deyouj,
i“ ? pappt, t^/gp)4;(#n^yine.^^Th?i;« #
m gew ?ppear.-yThe o,eighty,reartbqjiake, npjw
displays. th^r-Wd^en, Sqp.,;$ '$$&*■,;: T re iniuttep
jttjcb g n ^ .^ » th ^ % imitd? and
makes aliye—novvsaves,and now destroys. ,Tlip
cloud andglory.—Jonah’s sign display, jthe virtues
of the word, the;.light and darkness shews. The
Gospel brings the. light-^and, life .and death—as
men obey or mock. The six denote the suffering
time to shew the Son of Man—the sign within the
43
Digitized by
sun.—The fowls now feast on thee! Then where
is thy former reign ? Beneath the rod of Mosessee
thy fall fromheaven’s height. Son of the morning,
Lucifer, no more oppress—be thou a faHen star!
Great Og and Agag, where are ye! The walk of
Jericho art thou, fall flat!' Joshua’s ramS-horns,
the seven and twelve, pass Jordan’s stream
Where is the lion, bear, Goltah huge, but mtfm
centre thee ? David appears a stopffog youths
now tears and slays and slings the itone, and
smites thy dragon's head. Now see great" Davkfk
reign—Toe temple’s stones, unhewedbyman, in
those days, nnite, the King of Peace amidst the
seven in oil unite, and in a stone with Seven d o
appears. The stately fabricnow rs laid, founded,
and topped with gems of everyhue. The ark of
Moses now is built—The words, the laws, the
sceptre, all unite, and Aaron’s budded sod—He
now is chosen; eat the bread; prepare die sacri­
fice. John eats the book, which sweet and bitter
is—he prophecies, the temple metes, and stands
before theLamb; the templemeasures andanoints,
and Moses’stabernacle. The witnesSe?,Watthew
and John, as olive trees appear—tbebrp^eh stones
*tft, renewei
laws of Eplmmn, ten unite in one, and hold by
Judah’s skirt—the Son of Man o’er Israel reigns—
die dry bones now arise. Here ends thy earthly
reign. The bond of union now is come—the mar­
riage ring appears—the bride is come—the Britfe-
groom now receives the marriage sea)—the law
and gospelnowunite—the moon and sun appear—
Caleb andJoshua pass the stream in triumph to re­
store—Wherenowthou Canaaniteartthou? Where
all thy maddened crewl— ^
anointed
Digitized by Google
Hittites, be gone! no more appear to hurt or to annoy,;
Islow Israel’s Sons in peaCe succbed arid Canaan’s land enjoy. ';
• Behakt, from Edom 1 appear, with garment! dipt in blood: . '
wijisr are,freed, and sav’d, and wash’d .amid’st die purple
. .. flopd. , # i : . , r ,
The law ,; or moon, imperfect was to save— ■
:But now the Stai points dead-men to the gravel -
Mercy benign appears-r-the Gospel Sun embraces
all—the Spirit and the Bride invite, and offer wine
and wilk— but not to mockers here- Infinity of
love and grace! Gentiles and Jews unite, no more
from love to part. Six days are past—Peter and
James and John, behold, my glory, in my word.
The law and prophets now are seen,with Jesu’s word to shine—
But What hast thou, thou Serpent, here to do with love benign i
Tremble and flee—’tis done: the seals are burst—
the vials pour, and end thy destiny.”
Thus a. small part of the thoughts of the judg­
ments of God pronounced on Satan, with his final
overthrow, concludes the writer, who is a gentle­
man o f great respectability.
49
/ shall insert, a little fu rth er on, an Answer to
the Eighth Thought, as explained to me by the
Spirit. : *
NoW I hive gone $6 far with this1hook, wherein
I have shewn you how every crooked path is made
straight concerning hlr. Bruce—and I deny that
the learned world.can prove the Bible to be from
the Lord, and that-m y writings are -not. There
is none but God could have brought round such
a mystery, to fulfil the Bible, and make every
thing appear in a straight line together. So every
man of deep penetration and discernment must
D
\
Digitized by G o o g l e
so
say, I am a wonder to men, if they do not be­
lieve it is the Lord’s doing, and marvellous in their
eyes.— But now I shall tell you another mystery.
The worthy Mr B. Bruce has been represented
as a type of C hrist; and Christ it is said is the
Sun of Righteousness, to arise with healing in
his wings; by which is meant, to heal the fall of
the woman, and so bring in the redemption for
m an; and being clothed with it, is meant the
clothing of his Spirit, which are his words. Now,
to brjttig the shadow to the substance, let every
man know, that as Mr. Bruce is called the sha­
dow, I am now clothed with his clothing, sent to
me by his worthy bride; for a map andhis wife
are one: and further let it be known unto all
men, that it happened for me to wear it for him
in the tenth year. So now weigh deep the letters
• sent to me by the son of man, and consider well
my answers to them by the Spirit of the Lord.
And now as Christ died to reconcile the world
unto God, that we migh t be heirs of God and joint
heirs of Jesus C hrist; so hereby ye are to know,
that Mr. Bruce is brought forth unto the world
an heir of God and joint heir of Jesus Christ,
who is ascended on high,, to receive gifts for men;
that is, to be permitted to come boldly before the
throne of God to have the act of grace passed for
man, and the promise made to the woman fulfilled.
„ So now sec clear the shadow’s here ;
She's clothed with the sun—
For all hi* clothing she does wear;
And the tenth year is come, .
If you discern how I do warn, '
The shadows first appear;
And now you see the son of man.
His clothing she does wear.
But in that day, to you I fay,
When you together meet.
Digitized by
• •
His clothing there will then appear, ff - *
And make the mystery great, - ■1■
1■
1 ^
So now see plain, ye sons of mcn,rv.. C t f! i;. .L
The shadow you may see: t -
But as the word is on record, ' ,
She's clothed now with me ; , ' , ,
Who soon shall come to rescue man,. . • ,
And free the woman's fall;
As Bruce's letters shew his hand, .
You'll find my hand in ^11; ( . • *
And as his word is on record, , ■
That he sent, by his hand, / ;
So mine you*# ^ep alike to he* , . . )7,./ —
And both together stand. '■ ‘ ' " *
So, learned ^nen, no more contend, ,. . t
Till you have, sepn ‘
all cjjear, . .
The wo man pfothed*
with‘the sun, , ’ ; »
A wonder ioyou here; . ..
So in amaze you all may gaze, ,!
As Adam aid at first,
To see the bone, him unknown, ' ’
The woman there was plac'd.
The woe, you see, she brought on he.
And the first woe for man— , ,
But how shall Satan now get free, ... s r ~
She casts her woe on him ?
Then sure her woe on him must go, . ■ t
And man must now be free : /;
If you do plead as Bruce has said, ; r
Imputed all shall be. , r
Unto you men I tell you plain, . . . t
As jury-men appear, .
And now the woman's cause maintain, <
Then as ajudge I'll clear.
For as a judge I'll surely come, _. . ;
When you the cause do try, ,
And Satan shall receive his doom,
The woe for him is nigh. .
So now you see thp mystery,
Took frpm the woman'sname—
She brought her woe on man and me# •
And both did bear the blame.
Though 'twas not she, I must tell ye,
Did cast the woe on man ;
The serpent was condemn’d by she,
And there her woe must come.”
Digitized by Google
4 Here follows the answer of the Spirit to the
Eighth Thought.
" The seven past, the law of God appear'd :
As with the Law the seven I compar'd —
But mark, the eighth does with the Gospet join.
T o bring the Revelations to mankind; ,
And as my angels did my servant Warti, ;
. Just so my Spirit he did not disced
W orking within him deep in every thought;
For Satan's doom is plac'd in all h'e wrote t
For as the woman he by attstwflty'd,
The sword ofjustice now is bn his head, 1
And he's the Cain shall now receive his doom
From Abel's blood*— and Abel's now in man.
For know of Sodom hef^ his thoughts went deep—
'Tis Satan's doom, the flkmej on nfm shall break;
For now the mystery every one shall see—
The woman stands the pillar now for he •
That is, 1 tell you, for to catch him there; .
The liquid’fite shall'on his bead appear: *
If she, for disobeyhig in brie word/
Became a judgment-pillar of her Lord;
Then now my judgments he shall surely feel,
If e'er he tempts my chosen, she doth seal:
And now a pillar she shall be for man,
O f salt to savour those can judge her' hand.
Mark well the shadow did So strong appear,
When fire from heaven was bn Gomorrah there.
But can you deem my judgment so severe; •
T o turn the woman to a pillar there, ‘
Had I not set the type tbr the last days,
That all may see the justness of my ways l
For as the woman there hfe did condemn
For disobedience, and to salt $hb came;
Then now the woman H I‘make salt for all,
And Satan now shall find his final fall;
If he goes on to disobey like she,
Then the same net is surely laid for he.
And now thd woman shall likd salt appear,
She'th seal’d my people as I commanded her;
And if the tempter ever looks to them,
Then Sodom and Gomorrah’s now his doom.
Was Lot my friend, and did I save the man J
Did he preserve my angels th&t to him came ?
And did such judgments to his wife appear?
Mistaken men, you never knew me here—
\
Digitized by b o o g i e
&& ■
l seat that judgmerit the WotoAtf thert, *
That ia ihei cntf sh^ may like salt appear,
;,., $
t Tp tell the tempter, hp was bound the same ;f
And now like Sodom he shall feel the damp,
“ ■* ' If he goes oh to tempt tho^e thint are seal'd— '
'Thercfenothing done tut tioWnkiist be reveal'd* 1
:.. . •1
•j Aiid here ill; piiblic-staid^ithejt^pttpter'sidqomij, .
The;woman's freed, amd Satan's ip her room ; |» ,
( If now* hp revels with the bowls of God, ‘ ;J'f w
' ' Then* Daniel^s liotis shall t6 him he shear dl f *15n '* *1 ; •
’
vr { : For to’destrby him’hhstlyIh^hfedon-—»':.Ylii h Jori
k
t / JM en HI.preserveithatlon Mivnow;depend:: !>•, : .rir#
*yx\ . And as ,the Hons he hap ftiade of, men, ,. . j , ,,?j
Then now as lions they are so become; ; t j •
Their mouths are shut,5arid will hot wound my fantey **15
Unless be those that with the tempter join ;
l (' 1 And those#ke him wift/fall wta his den; *\ f •>/. ' /
jLike Daniel’s lions, they .wi)l (
all be slain.; « ,».,,fJJ(^.
^ That is, the Hons did destroy tl^cin all, f > *
* And so my lions they on him shall fall*— 11'; ;; ‘ K
*1
' 1J But all his thought^ when I Have all wentthrough* ' •
; / .‘ IsaiahV prophecies, you all shall knojv, , *; , ,
. l Wpre deeply written cm his mind and heart;. ,: \f/
And '{was my thoughts when I for man did smart,
That in the end he sure should sde my feign;
Ud/come to conquer, and the fight maintain, ‘ m:
- Tili all bis Babels I'd throw to the ground—
Right.is the judgment in the eighth thought found ;
And now let four more as right appear,
And then the marriage ring to all i'll clear."
As in all probability a few certain passages of
pijs AvOrk have, from the mystical manner in
which they are £iven, puzzfted some of my readers,
I shall hero add a clear explanation of them.
The meaning, of being sealed to the day' o f re-
dentation, (see pages 36 and 37.)’ When I had got
printed 5000 of'my books, I was ordered to w.rit£
to : the1 Rev. Stanhope Bruce, and request him to
get “printed, book fashion, 1000 copies of the
letters I had sent'to him and other worthy divines
and spiritual good men, which being done, I was
Digitized by G o o g l e
ordered to take one of each of my books, and
one of his, (which was the perfect obedience of
man and woman,) and seal them together; and
it was said to me, this is the hook that is sealed
for man’
s redemption. Therefore not ail the
powers of earth and hell shall prevail against
those that believe; for the book is sealed io hea­
ven and e arth : and what is bound on earth is
bound in heaven; and Satan is bound by man on
earth, and it is 5&id to me he is bound in heaven.
But these are mysteries concealed from the public
till tb£..tune my writings are proved.
Now I shall inform my readers trhy the Lord .
permitted seven men to come down, and no more,
to fulfil the .law. By the seven stars are meant
the seven spirits of God in. seven m en; for the
Spirits of the Lord are but one Spirit. The five
wise virgins in the New Testament, (which al­
ludes to the five Evangelists,) being joined to the
aforesaid seven men, make the twelve spoken of
in the Revelations, to bring in the twelve tribes
of Israel.
»
Some men having written to me, that they are
called of God to be chosen with m e; I drink
proper, to tell them here, that I know them not.
None a^e chosen with me, but such as.are revealed
to m$ j And V aip sorry to say many (alse pro­
phets and false Christs are risen up in the world ;
for I. have heard them, and haye their letters to
testify against them, wherein they assert, th at
they are the saviours of the w orld; so that th e
Gospel of Christ is fulfilling every way, and th e
end is at hand. But let no man judge himself th e
saviour of the world. The plan -of salvation was
laid at the creation; and no prophet can arise,
44
\
Digitized by Google
but w hat is spoken of in holy writ* A prophet
like Jonah was to appear; and he has appeared in
Mr. Brothers ; and therefore our Saviour said, “ I
was sick and in prison, and ye visited toe not*’
* ♦* *
" A n d Joel’s words must first come true*
Before I make an end;
The Revelations to your view
Must make the learned bend. ; *
The woman clothed with t^e s u n
• You'll find must firat appear ;
The m a r r i a g e of the la mb must come ;
My seal it must appear.
All this is done by my command,
Then judge your summer nigh;
for my elect shall ever stand,
And Abba, Father, cry.
Tis spoke of thee, let all men s6e>
’' That such one must arise; i '
So if your bibles plain you see,
There's hone can blind your eyes ; •
For what impostor can take place,
If wisely you discern ?
*Tis but a dark benighted race, ;
That fools can ever Jiarm.”
55
•. . , i
Now I am come to the end, I shall, clear up the
beginning, to prevent my readers from stumbling,
a^ I (did when i was told that the harvest should be
h u rt; as they had brought a burden on me, it
should fall on the land. I then thought within
myself, will the Lord afflict a whole nation, for the
sake of a few? But I was answered, “ thou know-
est not what man is ; the hearts of all men art
known unto me ; and were thy writings public,
thousands would mdck, as they d o ; fo r nothing
butjudgment* w ill awaken your land.” The truth
of this I soon found to follow, as soon as my
writings were put in print. So let no one say,
Digitized by LjoogLe
9fftietions/catpe for a few ; .they came, astbc hearts
pf most men were alike.
j ■ .: • > ;
A nd,now I shall inform my readers what part
of my writings have been fulfilled, since I began
to publish in 1801; and what are hastening on.
5fr
F U L F IL L E D ,
See Page 18
53
60
84
94
126
141
143
161
162
174
197
• 200
{F A S T E N IN G O N .
. See Page 8
87
29
37
46
79
87
109
120
160
172
180
The last eight pages of the Book of Letters are
hastening on. The prophecies in that book are
deeper than any man can imagine.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
. . . L O N D O N :
Printed by Merchant and GaUbin, Inexam-Coort; and sold by W. Tozxa.,
Chapel-Place, Duke-Street, Wesfmmster-Road, Southwark; also by W.
, Symonds, Gandy-Lane, and the Man E v| l e io b I, St. didwall’s, Exeter^
S. H ir s t , Leeds; W. W a d m in , Y u k ; J ames L ig h t , Cow^iitry-
Street, Stourbridge; E dm und B a x er , Iumnster; C. B r a d l e y , Digbeth,
Birmingham; E. .Go ld sm it h , Gravesend; and T. Tvrtiw*G rew w tu-
(Price Ohe Skilling.) ■ ‘
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
th e' second part of th e
CONTINUATION
OF
JOANNA SOUTHCOIT* f
PROPHECIES
OF TH IN G S W H ICH AR E T O COM E.
ISHALLnowanswerformyselfto thepublic; as
I have sent printed letters throughout the
kingdom by divine command. I answer for my­
self, that I have written no cunningly devised
fable, nor have built my faith on a sandy foun~
dation : but I must entreat my readers to search
the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have
eternal lif?: for these are they which testify of
me, or some such one to arise, before man’s re­
demption can ever come.—The Spirit and the
Bride must come. Then whosoever will, may
come, and take of the waters of life freely. But
here my readers will say, I have begun at the
Revelations, and have ended at Genesis. But so
you must go back with your bibles, if you will
ever trace the divine footsteps of the Lord for
his footsteps have been hid in the great deep,
and his paths past man’s finding O ut— “ I am
Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end,
the first and the last.” The Lord said he would
make manin his own image; and he said, it was
not good for the man to be alone: “ I will make
an help meet for him. Now let us reason toge­
ther, saith the Lord: but, O'man, where is thy
reason, if I am the first? I said at first, it was
not good for the man to be alone; and made the
woman to be his help meet to complete his hap­
piness. Now if Lam the last, she must complete
a ' J ;
The Second Edition, printed in October, 1813,
by W. Merchant, Ingram-Court, London, Entered at Stationers*
from the First Edition* jpinttd in 1808. Ball.
Digitized by
it at last. W hat 1 said at first I must complete
at last. But know, Satan came after me at first;
and as he now stands, I was the beginning, and
Satan is the ending, if I stop here; then how
can I be the first and the last, if I do uot ac­
complish at'last what I said at first? Now here
is the wisdom of the wise men perished, aud the
understanding of the prudent men hid. My
word at first, was, that it was not good for the
man to be alone: my word at last is now the
same—The man is evil here alone : the pride of
man aspires to be a god.
“ Too plain I see, as he’th his Maker’s form,
They judg’d my honour all their own,
If I had so ordain’d my plan,
To give my wisdom all to m an. ,
Your spirits you do little know, ■
Satan would swell your pride below ;
But as the woman doth appear,
" She never was a saviour here, : ' »
Nor in my bible said to be ; y , »
‘ ^ Then here you all may honour me,
To say the woman now’ is good,
Because in her the light hath stood,
*Though weak as water she appears, >
The Spirit of the Lord is here*
And on the water now doth move,
That all mankind may know my love; *
For I’ll divide the day from night—
* Bring every mystery to your sight/’
And now I shall give you a cle&r prophecy from
the bible, placed backward, as the sun went back­
ward for Hezekiah, when he was pronounced to
d ie ; but when the Lord promised to prolong his
life, it was by the sign of the sun going backward
ten degrees. Now when the Lord giveth a newness
of life to man, the bible must be placed backward,
the same, to shew you he hath renewed his cove­
nant with you, and raised you from death unto
life, by as pleasant and sweet a fruit as the figs
were when applied to Hezekiah, and the Lord
added to his life fifteen years,* after he was pro-
58 * . . .
nounced. to die.—And when the tyible goeth back­
ward, then the Lord will add to man all the pro­
mises in the bible, which I have set before you—
and know that his promises are yea and amen.
Then is it not your privilege to plead them ? So
the following lines are from the bible, and I shall
give you the explanation of them in part, and
then judge for yourselves.
“ The Spirit and the Bride say, come: and let
him that heareth say, come; and let him that is
athirst come. For the marriage of the lamb is
come, and ihis wife hath made herself ready.
Thy Maker is thy husband, the Lord of Hosts is
his name, and thy Redeemer' the holy one of
Israel; the God of the whole earth shall he be
called. For the Lord has called tbee as a woman
forsaken, and grieved in spirit, and a wife ’
of
youth, when thou wast refused,' saith thy G od.
And all thy children shall be taught of the Lord,
and great shall be the peace of thy children. In
righteousness shalt thou be established. Thou
shalt be far from oppression, for thou shalt not
fear; and from terror, for it shall not come near
thee. .Behold, they shall surely gather together,
but not by me. Whosoever shall gather together
against thee, shall fall for thy sake. In sorrow
tnou shalt bring forth thy children: thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.
No weapon that is' formed against thee shall
prosper: and every tongue that shall rise against
thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is
the heritage of the servants of the Lord, And
their righteousness is of me sailh the Lord. I
will put enmity between her seed and thy seed,
and it shall-’ bruise thy head. I Jesus sent, my
angel to testify unto you these things in the
churches. I am the root-and offspring of David,
arid the bright and the morning star. I am Alpha
and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first
59
Digitized by Google
and the last. ' Blessed are they whp do his com­
mandments, that they may have right to the
tree of life. For the mountains shall depart, and
the hills'be moved; but my kindness shall not
depart from thee: neither shall the covenant of
my peace be moved, saith the Lord, that hath
mercy on thee. O thou afflicted, tossed with
tempest, and not comforted, behold, I will lay
thy stones with fair colours-—
and lay thy founda­
tions with sapphires—and I will make thy win­
dows ofagates, and thy gates of carbuncles—and
all thy borders of pleasant stones. A garden en­
closed is my sister; my spouse; a springstart up,
a fountainsealed, a fountain of gardens, a well of
living waters: andstreams from Lebanon. Awake
O north wind, and come: thy south, blow upon
my garden., that the spices thereofmay flowout:
let my beloved come into his garden, and eat his
pleasant fruits. Who is this that cometh up from
the wilderness, leaning upon her beloved? Set me
as aseal upon thy heart; and as a seal upon thy
arm. Forlo!the winter is past, the rain is over
and gone, the flowers appear upon the earth, the
time of thesinging of birds iscome, andthe voice'
of the turtle is heard in our land. The fig-tree
putteth forth het green figs, and the vines with
the tender grape give a good smell. Arise, my
Jove, my fair one, and come away. Oh, my dove,
that- art in the clefts of the rock, in the secret
places ofthe stairs; let mesee thy countenance:
letmehearthy voice; for sweetis thy voice, and
thy countenanceiscomely. Take us the foxes, the
little Fostes, thatspoilthe vines: foro u t vines have
tender grapes. My belovedis mine, and I amhis
he feedethamong thefillies.—Thelaw of the wise
Isa fountain oflife, to depart from the Snares of
dead). In thefearoftheLordisstrong confidence;
and hischildren,Shallhave aplace of refage. The
fearofthe Lord isa fountain oflifeto depattfrom
60
\
(he amires of death. Wisdom resteth in the heart
of him that hath understanding: but that which
- is in the midst of fools is made known. Righte­
ousness exaltcth a nation: hut sin is a reproach to
any people. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand
in judgm ent: nor sinners in the congregation of the
righteous; for the Lord knoweth the way of the
righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall perish.
Kiss the Son, lest he he angry, and y£ perish from
the way, when his wrath is kindled but'a little;
blessed are all they that put their trust in him. I
will declare the decree; the Lord'hath said unto
me, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.
Ask of me, and I will give thee the heathen for thy
inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for
thy possession: sojourn in the land, and 1 will be
with thee, and will bless thee: for unto thee,, and
unto thy seed, I will give all these countries: and
I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham,
thy father: and I will make tliy seed to multiply
as the stats of heaven; and will give unto thy seed
all these countries: and in thy seed shall all the na­
tions of the earth be blessed: because that Abraham
obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my com­
mandments, my statutes, and my laws. And God
said, let us make man in our own image, after our
likeness : and let them have dominion over the fish
of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the
cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creep*
xog thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God
created nfan in his own image: in the image of God
created he him': male and tenjale createohe them:
and God blessed them ; and God said unto them, be
fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and
subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the
sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every li­
ving thing that moveth upon the earth. And there
shall be no more curse: -but the throne of God, and
, of tli^Lamb,shall bein it: ondhis servants shall serve
ei '
Digitized by b o o g i e
him : and they shall see his face; and his name shall
be in their foreheads. And he said unto me, these
.sayings are faithful and true: and the Lord God of
the holy prophets sent' his angel to shew unto his
servants the things which must shortly be done.
Behold, I come quickly : blessed is he that keep-
eth the sayings of the prophecy of this book. And
he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as
crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God, and
of the Lam b: in the midst of the street of it, ahd
on either side of the river, was there the tree of life,
which hath twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her
fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree were
for the healing of the nations. And he that sat upon
the throne, said, behold, I make all things new. And
he said unto me, write, for these words are true and
faithful—and he said unto me, it isdone. I am Al­
pha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will
give unto him. that is athirst of the fountain of the
water of life freely. He thatovercometh shall inherit
all things: and I will be his God, and he shall be my
son. And 1 saw an angel come down from heaven,
having the key of the bottomless pit, and a great
chain in his hand. And he laid hold on the dragon,
that old serpent, which is the devil and satan, and
bound him a thousand years; and cast him into the
bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon
him, that he should deceive the nations no more till
the thousand years should be fulfilled. And I saw
heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and he
that sat upon him was called faithful and true: and
in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His
eyes were as a flame of fire;' and on his head were
many crowhs; and he had a name written that no
man knew, but he himself; and he was clothed with
a vesture dipped in blood, and his name is called the
Word ofGod. And there appeared a great wonder in
heaven, a Woman clothed with the sun, and the
moon under her feet, and upon her head, a crown of
62
Digitized by b o o g i e
twelve, stars. And she being with child, cried, tra­
vailing in birth, and pained to be delivered. And I
heard a loud voice, saying in heayen, now is come
salvation and strength, and the kingdom of our God
and the power of his Christ : for the accuser of out
brethren is cast down, which accused them before
our God day and night; and they overcame him by
the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their tes­
timony. And they that dwell upon the earth shall
rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send
gifts one to another; because these two prophets
tormented them who dwelt upon the earth. And
after three days and a half, the spirit of life from God
entered into them, and they stood upon their feet,-
and great fear fell upon them who saw them. And
hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Fa­
ther—to him begloryand dominion for ever and ever,
' amen. And when these things begin to come to pass,
then lookup,and lift up yourheads, for your redemp­
tion draweth nigh. And he swallowed up death in
victory: and the Lord God shall wipe away tears
from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall
he takeaway from offall the earth; for the Lord hath
spoken it. And it shall be saidgptbat day, lo! this is
our G od: we have waited fotilRtn, and he will save
us: this is the Lord, we have waited for him : we will
be glad, and rejoice in his salvation. Open ye the
gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth the
truth may enter in. Thou wilt keep him in perfect
peace, whose mind is stayed on thee, because he
trusteth in thee. And the key of the house of David
will I lay upon his shoulder. So he shall open, and
none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall
open. And I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place,
and he shall be fora glorious throne to bis father’s
house. And it shall come to pass, in the day, that the
Lord shall give thee rest from thy sorrow, and from
thy fear, and from the hard bondage wherein thou
wast made to serve. Therefore withjoy shall ye d ra w j*
•*
" *
1 *
;
68
Digitized by Google
wateroutofthewells ofsalvation. Andinthat day
shallye say, praisethe Lord, call uponhisname,de»
dare his doings among the people, make mention
that hisname,is exalted. The wolfalso shalldwell
withthe lamb, and the leopard shall lie downwith
thekid, and thecalf,andtheyounglion,andthefiat*
lingtogether, anda littlechildshalllead them. The
remnant shall return,even theremnantofJacobun­
to themightyGod: forhesaith,Arenotmy princes
altogether kings? Bind upthe testimony: seal the
lawamong mydisciples. Behold ! and the children
whomthe Lord hath givenmeare for signs and for '
wondersin Israel. Ask thee a sign of the Lordthyr
God; ask it eitherin the depth, orin the heighta-
hove. They that trust intire Lord shall beas mount
ZiOn, whichcannot;beremoved* butabidethforever.
tSthemountainsareroundaboutJerusalem; sothe
erd is round about his people, from henceforth*
evenforever. Forthe rod of the wicked shall not
restupon thelotoftherighteods. And the elders of
Jabesrtsaiduntohim, giveussevendaysrespite*that
W
e.maysendmessengersuntoallthecoastsofIsrael;
and then, iftherebenomantosaveus, wewillcome
out to thee. And Rebecca took goodlyraiment of
hereldestsonEsau,whichwerewithherinthe house,
and put them uponJacob her younger 9on. AndI
will makeoftheeagreatnation, and will blessthee,
and makethy namegreat, and thoushaltbea bless­
ing:.andl willblessthem thAtblessthee, andcurse
himthatcurseth thee;andintheeshallallthefamilies
oftheearth beblessed. Andthe LordGodsaid* itis
notgood that the man shouldbealone: I willmake
an h£h> meet for him. And the Lord Godcauseda
deepsleepto fall uponAdam, aadhe slept; apd he
took one ofhis ribs, and closednp rimfleshinstead
thereof; and the ribwhich theLord God had taker*
fromman madehea woman. And theSpiritofGod
moveduponthe faceof the waters. And Godsaid,
Ijftthere be light,andtherewaslight. AndGodsaw
tjhelight that it wasgood.”
64
Digitized by Google
I have giver*my readers the prophecies of the Bi­
ble, as I was ordered— *
*to fulfil the scriptures, to
begin with the last, and to bring it back to the first,
that the first may be last, and the last may be first:
and speak from the parable of rite labourers being
calleainto the vineyard, at the eleventh hour* to re­
ceive equal with them, who have borne the burden
and the heat of the day ; and here is the last hour for
man. The first man, Adam, had every promise made
him in the likeness of his Creator. Male and female
created h e them, at the time the heavens had suffered
violence; and man hath been pursued by violence
ever since the creation. Meri have used violence
one with another, as the fallen angels did in heaven,
before they were cast. O ut; and th e ' promise
was made to the faithful, that they should fight
and overcome on earth, as the angels did in hea­
ven. Now to gain this promise, men have borne foe
burden and heat of men’s anger. Witness all the pro­
phets, apostles, and martyrs, what they suffered from
the violenceof men. Thus heaven and earth have suf­
fered violence, and in foe likeness of men I came
down to dwell amongst them: and in foeitrlikeness I
died with them.
“ And so far is the likeness of man and me—
And heaven and earth shall now agree; *'
For in man's likeness lit appear.
At first the heavens I did clear,
And cast the rebel from my throne,
And in that likeness soon 'twas known,
The earth all in concision stood,
Though all things! pronounced good ;
As good in heavendid all appear.
But now the mysteries I shaft clear:
Proud Lucifer, from heaven’s high throne,
Judg’d he had power like my own;
And so in luisvenhe did swell,
And mode the angels to rebel*
And so the tumult it went On;
The wars with angels are unknown.
Before I cast the rebel down.
On earth the ftkeness soon was founds
And so on earth it hath gone on>
As it in heaven at first began/
Digitized by G o o g l e
But now you* privilege you may see;
Awake, mankind, and act like mg,
To cast the rebel from your throne,
And then the earth is afi your own;
So in my likeness now appear,
And then the mysteries 1 shall clear.
“ When you begin to act like mb,
In my perfection, all shall see, *
Your kingdom shall in glory burst,
When you the rebel here have cast.
For now you see thejourney’s end ;
In heaven the rebel 1made bend ; '
And cast him headlong from my throne.
And then in peace, to all be*t known,
I did the heavens alone possess;
Ahd now my likeness I’ll place thus;
Let men, as gods, now boldly stand,
If they this earth will now command;
Then now as gods they must appear,
And boldly tell the serpent here,
That earth was never made for he, * 4
And with the woman all agree.
It was for man the earth was made,
When the foundation first was laid ;
And now the earth you’ve all gone through;
Survey your lands, and claim your due;
And see the landmarks, how they are plac’d,
And now arise, ye fallen race,
And say, “ as gods we now shall be—
•* Thou spak’st the truth we’ll conquer thee;
“ For in God’s likeness we’ll appear;
“ Our Saviour died our guilt to clear;
** Then now m s promise we do claim:
u He made the woman at the time,
“ That we should surely bruise thy head,
u And now that promise is our plead;
4f That we may have this earth our own,
Like God thy power for to unthrone;
“ And in his likeness to appear.
“ We do not want thy presence here,
“ For to direct us what to do :
t€ Our God, our God ive wish to know; 5
“ And him to serve, and to obey ;
K We see the landmarks, how they lie,
“ That we are liken’d to our God,
By every footstep we have trod.
€t Christ died for us, and we for him,
“ And plain the likeness now is seen ; .•,
66
Digitized by.Google
67
4t Then as*the likeness doth appear,
u Our God for us doth conquer here,
“ By erery promise he hath made; «
■
“ We see the landmarks how they're laid.”
The following words were from myself, burst­
ing into tears and thankfulness, at the unbounded
goodness of God, for the clear >manifestation of
his love to man.
" Glory, honour, praise, and power,' .
Be unto the lamb for ever;
For thou rt worthy of a God,
To have the power and use the rod.”
The answer of the Spirit to these words:
€€ Then now let all men say the same,
And they shall know their Maker's name,
That in my likeness they appear;
For in the woman I stand here: '
So with the woman let them stand,
And every promise now command,
That I have plac'd before them all;
For so my kingdom now shall fall,
And to the faithful must appear ;
For every mystery I shall clear,
And place them in the seven here.
It is the Mother and the Son,
And Abel’s vengeance now must come;
And Abraham's promise must appear, • '
And Isaac next the trulh see clear,
And Jacob's princes now become, ;
And Moses gain the promis'd land;
And Hezekiah must be found
To pray for life, and must abound,
To raise a fallen David's throne :
Then all these landmarks are ^our own. ,
For I brought it back to man,
That in my likeness you may stand ;
And in my likeness to appear,
And then pursue your journey here.
As I have brought it back to man,
How in my likeness all do stand;
The woman in her husband's room,
Then, Lucifer, now know thy doom;”
This subject I shall drop for the present, and defer
the further explanation of it till another time, and in­
sert a letter that I sent to a gentleman in London.
Digitized by
Si r, Exeter, SQM Oct. 1801.
I must bee to inform you, that you judge too high*
fy ofme and Mr. Brothers. The name ofthe Bride and
the name of Mr. Brothers lead you into mistaken no­
tions; C h r is t is the bridegroom, believers are the
briefes; but the shadow i6to one, the substance to all*
RispfacedintlieBiM e, *
*the bride, the Lamb’s wife
hath made herself ready.” That means, by perfect
obedience to the commands ofdie Lord, she is ready
to declare what is his righteous will concerning men
— that the marriage of the Lamb is come to all that
come Unto him ; that he willjoin all nations and kin­
dreds together as the heart of one man. For the Lord
will not leave till he be the desire of every nation.
You little think what is before you, nor bow true my
writings have been this year; but another year will
convince you my prophecies will come on fast. The
name ofMr. Brothers stumbles himself and all men.
Christ is the Prince, the King of kings, that will rule
and reign in every heart; and all believers are his
brothers; and when the Lord brings in his glorious
kingdom, he will make his brothers kings and princes
unto G od: for his friends are his brothers; and for
your sakes M r. Brothers has suffered imprisonment,
to shew what his brethren have suffered for the sake
of Christ, in Mr. Brothers and me. There is a great
mystery in his having been in prison near sevenyears;
and I have suffered imprisonment in mind and heart,
in temptation and persecution, in sorrows more than
pen can paint or heart conceive, for near ten years.
1 So now you see a mystery,
The man and woman plac'd, .,
And bound as prisoners for to be,
And every sorrow taste.
And to thp iail this calls you all—
* '
A mysteiy deep for m an:
Which aAthe time, the nations all
In sorrow seem'd to stand*
Tumult and war abroad did appear,
Distresses were at home 5
And Zion's travails must be clear,
When he and I did groan. %
68
Digitized by b o o g i e
t
/ m
Encompass’d round with eveij sound,
By man that is unjust t
They said the same, my senses gone,
And both alike were plac’d.
But soon you’ll see a mystery,
When heaven frees our chains;
Then your deliverance you wiflaee.
That never felt our pain. ^
In heart and mind, what did We J&d t
Temptations strong within,
JEncompa&s’d round with every sound, '
And sore afflictions seen.
WHat we went through yaadofeet kDOW:
Bat this you do discern,
Because the prison’s in your view,
Which keeps the man from harm;
vWhile I without, so full of doubt,
Feel every travail pain
O f jealousy send mysery,
While faith and fear remain.
Left to go on, and stumble men ; v
Their senses all seem test:
They know not who does guide my hand J
Nor can their wisdom boast
That they could see as dear as me,
Of what was hastening on i
Nor how their tew s tow broken be ;
The wise men are become
To miss their mark, and m the daft*
They’ll be benighted soon; '
And, like die Wind, the wall caift lind:
They’re stm^cfeadod at noon.
If they can’t see the mysteiy,
To shivers all are broke,
And, like the dock, strike shrtydfhree,
And miss in evety Stroke. ’
For thirty-one *ltstruck at ten,
And thirteen at«eieven:
But when it to the m iM fi came,
Two strokes alone were given.
So it began, and so went on, "
With random work afl round *
And when-unto the four it came, *
Full sixty strokes werefotmd.
So by the dock, from every strdke.
No man coaid judge the hour j- 1
And so to men it how is come,
’Tis all beyond their power.
Digitized by Google
no
For random' work did all begin,
And random work >vill end 5
And you will see a mystery,
In all that I have penn’d.
And every line you’ll find goes deep—
To shivers all are broke;
For like the clock the wise men speak,
And miss-in every stroke.
So if the hour you wish to know,
You must look to the dial 5,
■ For like the stroke the words did flow,
And every word did fail.
As J have said, they were misled,
As Ahab’s prophets were,
To tell the king for tp go on
In such a random war.
But for the dial, it did;npt fail,
But every hour did keep;
So all might see, that Look’d at it,
That random it did speak.*
Now I’ll explain what tins doth, mean;
The church clock it caipe from,
That regular in hours went,
But every hour struck wrong,
fo from the clock and frpm the stroke,
I’ll fully answer here;
The dial was true—bring to your view,
The Bible does not err; ’
But as for men, they now are come
To run their Bibles so, '
That every word they speak is wrong,
The truth from none you kpow.
For every hour’s beyond their power,
For man to speak aright;
" Unless ’tis by die. Spirit’s power,
To bring it to their sight.
Then to the, Bijble you must look,
To see how all is.plac’d ;
The man the truth he did forsake,
And did his Lord disgrace;
To blame the partner of his soul.
And cast the blame on heaven:
The serpent must been screen’d from all,
Had not her word been given.
And now, alone, she makes her mean,
And does for vengeance call,
For men to free her misery,
And break the bonds for all. *
* The dock struck at random, ,
Digitized by Google
As man was bound, as she was found
For to bring on his guilt,
But she is free—a mystery—
No prison she has felt.
Because no blame she cast on man,
, Nor did her Maker blame;
*Twas but the serpent she condemn'd,-
And now .she cries the same.
S o how can she in prison be ?
Will you the woman cast,
And say the serpent now you'll free,
' And let his malice burst ?
Upon you all it sure must fall,
To strike the woman dead!;
Then with the deviL you must fall,,
No advocate to plead.
For if you stand, be't known to men,
The woman must you free ;
And Christ in her must sure be found.
In freedom left for man. ,
For in the fall, I tell you all,
She no man did condemn; 1
When on her head the blame was laid
. Thd serpent did appear;
5 And on his head the blame she laid—
Will you condemn her here ? ,
, Then Satan he a man must be, -
> > Much stronger than at first, ' .
And there's no way you can be screen'd ;—
Your advocate is lost.
Here I shall tell you the mystery of the clock. I
was at Sowtori, near Exeter. I was there one day in
1796, and took notice of the church clock, how it
struck. At ten it struck thirty-one—at eleven it struck
thirteen—at twelve it struck two—at three it struck
one—at four it struck sixty—at five it struck sixty-
three—and at eight, they say, it struck forty; but I
cannot remember every hour. It was then deeply
explained to me as a type of the nation.—I am, &c.
JO A N N A SOUTHCOTT.
Having received letters from many different men,
that they are the gods of the earth, and the Lord will
reveal himself to no other; their letters were an­
swered to me in the following manner:-*:
71-
Digitized by C j O O Q i e
T2
_ “ Now I shall answer thee and all mankind. They
shall know I am loving unto every one; but to strip
m a n of the pride, that the fallen angels had, I took
a b o n e from him in Paradise to preserve him at last.
And therefore man alone is imperfect; then how can
an imperfect man aspire to perfection ? I tell thee
there is no perfection m m an; and had he been made
•the perfect man alone, without the woman, Satan
would have swelled him with as great a pride,
as he did the fallen angels; and men and devils
would have perished together: for men would as­
pire to be gods, by the arts of Satan. Therefore
the b o n e that I took from M a n , and the t * e e o f
i i f e , which I preserved for man, shall be for his
preservation at last. And all men shall know that the
same hand that brought him the eviMroit, dhall bring
him the good fruit—and as a child is nourished by its
mother's m ilk; so ye must become as new-born
babes to desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye
may grow thereby. And now all men shall know
that the sincere milk of the word must come from
the woman, that no man may boast. But when ye am
come to stronger prears, them will the scriptures be
opened to your view.
“ For then you all will see the w i n e ;
That Tm the root, and thou’rt the *tnb ;
A nd then the write must all appear.;
And now the mysteries I shall d ear:
Man v^ithhis Maker did contend,
But now it’s drawing to an end,
That I shall so contend with all,
And prove to man l knew his Gdl,
Without the woman, would appear:
And now, without the woman here,
Ho men as gods aspire to be,
And say, the knowledge of the tree
Is surely plac’d in them alone,
And they as gods my mind have known. v
M en flow as gods they may appear; .
But I shall fully answer here,
. That they as gods shall never come.
Till they are joined to their bone;
Digitized by
v
Google
n
And with the womfcn do agree <
To take the fruit held out by sh£
And then HI join them to the vifte/
And all shill know the tfobt h mine,
Who took the partner from my heart,
As 1at first the man did part, _
To take from him one single bone, 1 *
To be his helpmate then alone. 1 • f
But as his helpmate he did blame,
By her I’ll put mankind to shame ;
And as his rival will appear:
I died the womans guilt to cledf,
And now in her HI cleaV the whole,
And bring all to the gospel pole. •
**■ So let the b a r r e n womb appear, .
That I pronounc’d so blessed here:
And see the paps that ne’er gave suck,
So full of every perfect milk ;
And perfect it shall now appear j !
For all my gospel now I’ll clear.
As indignation I did see '
In my disciples fo? to be, ^
To see the woman, on my head, ■ ' ■ \
Give me such honour as, she laid ;
So oi) my head she appear, . • ..
And honour to me *lie brings here,
Which men’s pro&d hearts cannot approve,
Because yourselves too much you love;
And all my love you have forgot, — ■
When I your ransom dearly bought, * <
When nailed to the cursed tree. ,
Appear, vain men, and answer jfie, .
How you can stand' without your bone ?
You say, you’re gods, and gods alone; ~
Then gods alone appear to be,
And never ask an help from me;
For I shall never help you here;
But in your helpmate all I’ll clear..
Because my ways are not' like man’s :
You know not how I’ve laid my plan,
For your redemption to appear,
And prove my wisdom did not err, -
When I the woman first did form,
Though man too soon my ways did scorn, •
And now, vain men, I’ll scorn you all,
That now despise the woman’s Call;
For you shall find I’m not like man,
For to despise my Father’s plan;
But in the woman PH appear,
And your redemption so 1
^
1
1cleaT. . .
B .
Digitized by Google
Then at the head I now must stand,
The second Adam now to man,
And bring the partner from my side,
Whom I have pronounc’d to be the bride,
That over her I now do rule ;
And man must judge his God a fool,
To let a woman thus appear,
In wisdom man can never clear,
In arguments for to confound,
That ’tis not like the heavenly sound,
In every promise made at first,
And here your happiness must burst.
For now in Adam I do stand ;
But as a G od, and not as m an,
Though in your likeness I appear ;
But now the likeness I shall clear ;
For now I’ll cleave unto the bride,
As it by Adam was applied ;
And to the bride I’ll surely cleave 5 .
Father and mother now I’ll leave ;
For to complete my Father’s will,
The woman shall the serpent chill;
For I in her will strong appear,
And all her children strong I’ll clear.
And you shall find I am more than man;
Then how shall Satan foil her hand,
Or dare to pluck her hand from me ?
And now your weakness you may see,
That you could never keep the bride,
From Satan’s arts that were applied ;
But said she did you overcome ;
Then now I’ll turn it back on man ;
For she shall overcome the whole,
As I in power o’er her do rule ; #
As her desire in me is plac’d,
I’ll answer now the human race.—
And let thy words in print to stand,
And then I’ll boldly answer man;
That thy desire is ali to me;
And I am the rival, all shall see,
That is in power to keep the bride,
And throw my Bible open wide; ,
Which I shall do now by her hand ;
For now I see the pride of men,
That they as gods would now appear,
Did not the woman foil them here ;
And so she foil’d them at the first,
When they in Paradise were plac’d ;
And now the last she doth appear,
And all shall find she’ll foil them here.”
74
Digitized by Google
Here I shall insert the lines that I am ordered to
print, and which I never thought to have ihade
public to the world ; but now being commanded I
must obey. I was ordered to chuse one of these
two things, that is—to have an inheritance given
me with iny brethren and fellow-labourers in- the
Lord—pr, when I had finished my work the Lord
had given me to do, to. depart this life and be with
Christ. So death or life was put to my choice.
But as my desire is hot for this w orld,'but tb be
with Christ, which is. far better, I gave the follow­
ing answer, which is the desire of my soul; .but
never intended to have made it public, though now
I am commanded to do it. I t is as follows : O my
God, my answer is ready; when I have finished the
work thou hast given me to do, for thy own honour
and great glory, and the good of mankind; let me,
I pray thee, have a building with God, eternal in
the heavens.
“ And when the mighty work is wrought.
Receive thy ready bride, ,
Give me in heaven a happy lot, ,
With all the sanctified.” . . . \
For thou that know’st all things, know'st 1love thee,
And that I set no idol up above thee;
I love thee more than life or interest, .
Nor hast thou any rival in thy breast, .
That with my Saviour I can now compare;
For O the heavens to me would scarce seem fair,
Unless I there behold thy glorious face,
And coop all heaven in the dear embrace: •
So here, ray Lord, nay hand and heart resign, x
And let me say my Uc^rdalone is mine.: *
Here is the answer of the Spirit to the aboye words.
“ Then now I answer Fm thy Lord alone, 1 ■f
And in thee flow I’ll lower the pride of m a n ’ 1
And let their fig-leaves now fdr to appear,
And say we're naked, now'we all-see clear.
Because as gods we can?t aspire to be, ’
Though we are told so, as they now told thee ;
Then now 1ask who 'twasthat told them so? - ; •
And will they answer riOWthey ‘
do not know > V
B 2
15
Digitized by G o o g l e
Or will they answer, Satan in disguise }
Then \ will answer, men will now act wise,
And then as gods I’ll make them to appear,
And give them clothing they did never wear.
For on the serpent both must cast the blame,
And then they’ll find that I am God the same.
As in the new creation at the first 5
And in the woman did man’s pleasure burst;
When from his sleep he did awake to see
His perfect likeness in the woman be,
A happy union then soon take place—
Awake, awake, O all ye sleepy race,
And see your helpmate stand before your eyes,
Which soon in wonder will you all surprise.
Much more than Adam was surpris’d at first,
And more than Adam’s shall your glory burst,
To see your helpmate then for to appear,
And bring such news as you did never hear,
And bring such knowledge to the sons of men,
And see the good fruit to be handed down :
Then all together men will stand amaz’d ;
In heavenly raptures men will stand and gaze—
“ To what new pitch of knowledge are we brought
“ To know our Maker, by a woman taught 1
“ To be our father, and to be our friend,
“ To see our Saviour, now from heaven descend !
“ With heavenly wings then gliding from above,
“ With transportjoy, we see the harmless dove,
“ Bone of our bone, and flesh like ours to be;
“ Is this the hand that Satan did betray ?
“ Is this the hand our Saviour did redeem ?
“ Then now we see the fountain, and the stream;
“ As from the woman he did come at first,
“ And in the woman doth his glory burst;
“ And in the woman it doth all appear;
“ And now we see the light divided here:
“ The man in darkness he appear’d at first,
“ But from the woman did the light then burst;
“ And in the woman we do now see clear
“ Our Maker’s wisdom, when he form’d her here.
“ O, blessed Maker ! how could Adam blame ?
“ We see thy wisdom, and admire the same.
“ Blest be the fruit, now given from her hand;
“ We see thy, wisdom in the-woman stand ;
“ That all alike we may be perfect men;
“ And 'tis by faith we must perfection gain ;
4t And ’tis by faith the promises were made ;
“ Our Maker’s wisdom cannot be betray’d*
u So by thy wisdom we’ll receive our bone,
" And then these promises are all our own;
Digitized by
77
“ Because we know she there was took at first*
" And now our bone returns it back at last:
" For we, like Adam, aft have beenasleeji*
4
4 But now* like Adam* we may wake and weep;
4
4 With joy and gladness we may now behold
4
4 Our Makers goodness h t doth now unfold;
4
4 And plain we see We are not perfect men*
“ Until our bone isjoin’d to us again.
*' And here’s the pearl that we find was hid;
" And here’s the fountain that at first was laid;
4
4 For sure he wisely then did lay die plan
“ To raise the house of clay as he began.
4€ For now his building he hath all gone through*
W e see the beauty* and the house* we know,
** Is like the corner Stone was laid at first;
4
4 And in this likeness all oUr joys do burst j
4
4 And in his likeness it doth all appear %
44 We see no shadow of a turning here.
4
4 So altogether it is like our God;
4
4 He doth not vary* as before he said.
4
4 Then how shah man like God for to appear*
4
4 If he do vary from his Maker here?
4
4 For every turning* now we plainly see,
" Is found m man* that now doth turn from h e.
4
4 Then how God’s likeness can we see in man*
4t Thdf from his Maker lays his every plan;
4t And judge hi9ways are clean before his sight*
u And crooked now he makes the paths so straight ?
4
4 And by these crooked paths we now see clear,
4
4 That God is right* ana man alone doth err,
" As he doth vary from the ways of God.
4
4 And now the fell of £ve is clearly shew’d :
4f To be as gods brought on her fall at first;
4
4 To be as gods the serpent now doth burst:
4
4 As much m man we see him to appear*
4
4 As in the woman, when he made her err.
44 So now in both we plainly see the fell;
'* J$nd now our God we see is all m a ll;
4
4 And a»IHn all he doth to us appear:
4€ And now the day-light we do see most clear.
4
4 If we will come to be the sons of God,
4
4 We must confess the truth of what he said—
4
4 It k n o t good for man to be alone;
44 W e all came naked from our mother’s womb;
4
4 And naked thither \ye will now return*
4
4 And of her spirit let us to be born.
^ Because the mystery now* we plainly see* -
V Christ’s kingdom we must all enjoy that way1
.”
For now* like Moses* ye must all appear;
Put off your shoes* the ground is holy here;
Digitized by
For in youf shoes, I say, you all do stand,
And in your wisdom, I do now see men
To stand with boldness out against their G od;
Then you may tremble all at Moses’ rod.
If he puts off the wisdom he hath plac’d,
And now, like Moses, will his God embrace;
And now to stand like Moses, heretofore,
Put off.his wisdom, and I’ll say no more.
And to God’s wisdom let him now submit,
And then he’ll put the shoes from offhis feet;
And then the flaming bush will fast appear,
And Israel’s children may begin to fear;
And say, my face they tremble for to see.—
Deep are the lines, and great the mystery;
As many Moseses, Isay, are found,
To cast their wisdom, all to hear the sound;
And so their shoesalready they’ve, put off,
I mean their w isdom now I’ve said enough.
Then to the flaming bush they may appear,
And then my voice, I say, they’ll surely hear :
For deeper mysteries li$ before your view,
From types and shadows, all my Bible through ;
But when the substance doth to you appear,
Then eveVy mystery I shall surely clear.”
Here I shall insert part of two letters, that I sent to
two reverend divines, on the 6th of December, 1801,
in answer to two dreams of the former, and other
things relating to the latter; the whole of which
may perhaps be given to the world hereafter.
Reverend Sirs,
I beg pardon for troubling you with a letter; but
conscience compels me : and I am commanded to
write to you from your dreams. The Lord is the same,
yesterday, to day, and for ever. He warns by dreams
and visions of the night; and the angels of the Lord
are ministring spirits. You arewarned in your dreams
of dangers that will fall on ministers, if they are now
careless in looking into these mysteries, and do not
awake as men out of sleep. This was my prophecy
in the beginning—that when the sword ofwar ceased,
the sword of the spirit must begin. That meaneth,
men disputing by words, like swords contending with,
each other. They that are fed by the Spirit of the
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
Lord believing and looking forChrist’s kingdom, and
pleading for it: and they that are led by the spirit of,
the devil,believing all a dream, and pleading against
it. So this controversy will be among men upon the
eatth, as it was among the angels in heaven, when
Satan and his party were cast out: and so it will be
now upon the earth. A holy war will now ensue:
and Satan and his party be cut oiFfrom the face of the'
earth. For now the Lord willtry men—Who is for
him, and who is against him. They that are for him
will possess his holy mountain ; and he will take the-
stumbling-block out of the way of his people; and
they shall enjoy his glorious and peaceable kingdom;
but those that are against him he will cut offfrom the
face of the earth, as the angels were cast out of hea­
ven. Satan must fall, and all his friends must fall with
him, as the angels did. The Lord will send out his
destroying angelito go through the land, and will
cut off men faster by the plague, pestilence, or some
other diseases, than they were by the sword of war.
But judgment will begin at the house of God : that
is, with the shepherds of his flock. If they will not.
give them the warning their blood will be required at;
the shepherds’ hand, if they die in their sins. There-:
fore, it is written, their teachers were blind guides, and
their priests were polluters of the sanctuary. Woe
unto them that go unto them ! For now if the blind.
are leaders of the blind, they will all fall into the
ditch together. So this danger stands before you,
and all shepherds, if you do not awake, as men out
of sleep. Now I shall come to the other dream, of:
the horse carrying you into the pulpit, and you there
finding these words, “ and Jesus wept." . Then now’■
"
reflect on his love to m an: arid now he is come to try
men’s love to him ; and he finds them every where,
and in every place, cold and lukewarm. Then may
he not weep, to see his love so great for man, to shed
his blood for their sakes, and they so dead and cold
to him ?— “ The ox knowethhis owner, and the ass
75
Digitized by L>oosLe
his master’s crib; hut Israel doth not know: ray
people do not consider.” Your horse knew his
owner, and his master’s crib, to Carry you into the
pulpit. But mark what words met you there,—
“ and Jesus w eft”to see you had no salt in yourself,
but was carried away by every wind that blew. The
Lord hath set an example for man, by saying, “ I
will go down, and see whether these things are so
as they are come up before me.” The Lord did
not want to go down to know, for his eye is
every where present; but he spake these words as a
E
attem for men. When strange things are brought
eforethem, deep and weighty,theyoua^t to godown
and know if it was so.; that they may he clear when
theyjudge, andjust ifthey condemn. Now judge for
yourself, Sir, if your text may not be applied to you,
and unto all ministers. Is there not cause enough to
say, “ Jesus wept /” Judge the writings which way
you will. If you judge them not of God, where is
the regard for his honour and great name, to suffer
a woman to go on, and. to say the Lord saith, if he
hath not spoken ? All the letters I have written to
ministers in his name, from 1793 to this time, must
now be brought forward before the whole; and how
will ministers answer for themselves, if theyjudge
it not of God.? For it is written, “ thou shaft net
suffer sin upon thy neighbour.” Ze$. xix. 17. And
this is the sin. they ought pot to suffer. Yet they
are suffering the.greatest sin that ever was commit*
ted in the world', if they judge the writings not of
the Lord<—to seehis name branded throughput die
world—to say beis come in the spirit of prophecy,
speaking- in the woman, to warn all m enpf bis
cpming in majesty and great glory and great pow­
er, to save his friends, and destroy his tees. Now
if I have said what the Lord hath not spoken, arc
not all tire woes pronounced against me? And would
not men shew tneir love to Gotl, to put my foolish „
tongue to silence; not to rob G od of his honourgand
Digitized by b o o g i e
brand his name with arts and lies, if they he lies?
How ready are men to contend for their own honour!
then ought they not to contend for the honour of
God? But on tbe other hand—if it be of God, let
menjudge for themselves. When our dear Redeem*
er came to bear the blame, man cast on him in
Paradise, how ready were men, how warm and zeal*
ous to cast it on him, and say, “ crucify him, crucify
him !” They were not wanting Jo bruise his heel;
but now he is come in the spirit to fiilfil the prophe*
cies given to the woman, to bruise the serpent’s head,
how lukewarm is man now found! N ot earing whe­
ther his head hf bruised or n o t: but sooner say, with
the Jews of old, “ his blood be on us, and upon our
c h ild re n w e will not try to bring it on the head of
the serpent. Yet all menknow it was prophesied, that
the day of vengeance was in his heart. Isaiah lxiii.
So it must fall ou man or devils. May not this un*
kind, cold return in man,grieve the HolySpirit ofthe
Lord, and meet every minister at his pulpit door
with these words, “ and Jesus wept!" This letter I
was ordered to send to you with these words—
“ Whether he will bear, or whether he will forbear,
speak my words unto him.”' I was ordered to have
your name written in the sealed book? and you
are at liberty to come and judge for yourself. I
know the expense1of the journey is great, but the
love of Christ to lay down bis life for man was much
greater. Consider what a thorny journey he under­
took for man. Fatal indeed must it now be for all
men, if no man would undertake a journey for
his sake, to find out the truth of these things.
" For as the dream did so appear,
The roads are so for man ;
The shepherds may begin to fear.
They*!! feel roy heavy hand;
If they stand out, so,full o f doubt;
They all will tumble down;
The horse and rider I shall throng * ,
That will not judge thfc sound;
8
1
I well may weep, to see my sheep
Such careless shepherds have ;
When I've shewn them all so plain.
How they their flocks may save.
In Adam’s stand I now demand
The man for to appear;
And tell me, from the woman’s hand,
Why he denied me here.
Will you begin as Adam then—
t€ The woman we obey’d ?”
Then I’ll confess the fault is mine,
If you be now misled.
But it you flee another way,
As man obey’d at first,
When Satan’s arts did her betray,
And death on man was cast^ #
I told you then, ye simple men,
That he would bruise my heel;
And just the same I told you then,
The serpent she would foil,
To bruise his head, as it was said,
And now his head I’ll bruise; s
If you like Adam now proceed,
And don’t her hand refuse.
For I’ll' begin to plead for man,
This way I cannot blame;
He first obey’d, as she hath said,
And now he has done the same.
Then she and I the cause must try,
And man must sure be free.
In Adam’s innocence you’re found,
In true simplicity.
Five thousand years, ye now seeclear,
Five men have right obey’d,
That now together sealed are,
And six in pail are laid.
But like the date, it came too,late.
To have the letter through ;
And so ’twill be, the end you’ll see,
The century all shall know:
’Tis now too fate, the book is shut,
And all is sealed up:
The six did come by my command,
And Satan here must stop.
For I’ll begin to place these men,
To every thousand past;
And first from Adam I’ll begin—
He right obey’d at last:
AndiNoah then I’ll prove the same ;
And Abraham must appear;
82
Digitized by Google
And Daniel in the lion's den;
And Moses' rod is near.
So for the six, I now will fix
The shortening of the days; '
In true obedience, like the rest, , <
And all shall see my ways. ^
That it is come so much like man;
The century's now to late
To have the thousand years to stand,
' Like every other date.
So I'll begin to seal up man,
That now obeys my word;
And strike the lintels of the doors,
And send my glittering sword,
For to go through, you all shall know,
And Pharaoh's host destroy ;
My sealed number now shall come, ‘
My kingdom to enjoy. *
S o't shall not stand, by my command,
As it hath stood before;
And it shall never come to pass
As men suppose it here.
For I'll go on as I've begun.
And all I'll now go through;
And as the people cursed thee,
I'll bring it to thy view,
They shall not stand, against thy hand, *
For every soul shall fall; •'
And now you all shall see my ways,
I will destroy them all.
So ask a sign, and thou shalt find,
The sign it shall be given ;
And all shall see it so shall be,
When I the lump have leaven'd."
The latter part of these verses was addressed to
the latter divine, and which was explained to me
from a dream ofMrs. Jones. She dreamed she heard
me reading my writings, and also the seventh chap­
ter of Isaiah, the 7th and 11th verses particularly.
Soon after she told me the dream, I went to Mr..'
Taylor’s j and a lady who was there, and who firmly’
believed my writings herself, told me how much she!
aad heard me cursed, as they said, peace and plenty
were come, and they judged every thing would get
pn well, as it had for years past ; but as it is inthe7th
83
Digitized by G o o g l e
verse, it will not stand accordingto their judgment;
«nd as the sign is mentioned in the 11th verse, it is
now said to me, I shall ask a sign, and it shall be
granted me, to the convincing of you and all man­
kind. 1shall conclude this with the words I finished
the former divine’s letter. 1 trust you will pardon
the liberty I have taken, as I have not done it of
m yself; but sent you a letter as I was ordered by
the Spirit, word for word, perfectly as indited to me
by the Spirit. So I have forwarded it to you, and I
trust the will of the Lord will be done in you, and
by you. I shall be hapipy to see you in Exeter, with
the other ministers; for then you will be a clear
judge for yoiirself.T-I am, &c.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
I shall now give some faint description of the
manner in which I was led in 17$2, which brought
me to my prophecies. My religion is that of the es­
tablished church of England; but being of S t Paul’s
mind, to try all, prove all things, and to hold fast
that which is good; knowing God is no respecter
of persons; but in every place where his Gospel is
preached, it is said, the Lord is iii the midst of
them ; I attended constantly my church, forenoons
and afternoons, and received the sacrament; at the
same time t also attended Mr. Westley’s preachers
at eight o’clock in the mornings and at six in the
evenings; these hours hot interfering with the serr
vice of the established church; but did not then join
(heir society, though I was much invited to do so.
Butat Christmas, 1792, by divine command, I was
ordered to join the society, for ends 1 should know
hereafter, for something should happen in the class
meeting, which would be the means of convincing
the people. So I joined them as commanded, but
ttothiug happened till (he Easter following: the
Good Friday I was more than commonly struck
with the love of Christ for m an; and all his love and
$4
Digitized by b o o g i e
sufferings, from the manger to the cross, appe#e4
before me in such lively colours, that it would be
fruitless to attempt to pen the feelings of my heart,
TheSunday followingl wasdeeply struck with hear­
ing the 24th chapter of St. Luke’s Gospel read, and '
particularly noticed these words in the 25th verse,
“ O, fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the
prophets have spoken 1 O ught not Christ to have
suffered these things and entered into glory ?” And
how be expounded to them in the scriptures. This
brought all the scriptures to my remembrance the
following day, and thinking with myself, that I
might say with our Saviour, ye fools, and slow of
heart, to disbelieve them ! Bow true is God to his
word, how true to his promises! Jdy past lift with
the Bible came quick to my remembrance: and I
began to meditate on what manner I was sent to
Exeter, praising the Lord; in my heart foe all hie
good!ness towards me, I was then answered I shook!
go to tire class meeting and speak of these things,
that had been called to my remembrance. But
thinking with myself, no one spake of past experi­
ence in a class meeting; bow should' 1go to act dif­
ferent from others ? But 1 was answered, if thoaart
afraid to speak of the goodness of God, 1 will take
it from thee. For now thou art comforted,strength­
en thy brethren. This made me speak of the manner
’ of my coming to Exeter in the class meeting, which
you will see in.nay fifth book. Thu&I thought they
might judge me simple, and 1 was mnchcamfus-
eel whilst 1 was'speaking.
The day following I had a cloud) come over my
soul in the morning, and alt my comfort seemed! ,
gone. I went alone, and.wasearnest in prayer,as the
comforts of the Lord seemed ts have tefB me. I was
answered that the people at the meeting;were mate*
cious against m e; hearing me speak so-much off the"
goodness, of God, they bad been in prayer that) die
Lord woukitake it from me. A t theseword&kstarted
85 .
Digitized by Google
wl&'eonfusion, and said to myself, it cannot be ; they
are too religious m en; 'and Mr. E—, I know to be
too good a man. I was answered, it was not h e ; it
was the rest. But he wished me out of the society,
fearing I !shoiuld hurt the people. I said why had he
not told me so? I Was answered, by the Spirit,because
he was afraid to offend thee1
. This occasioned me to
be drowned in tears, and I said to myself, I would
not be offended; and judged I was going out of my
seroses. Tears and prayers were my private compa­
nions, and I began to reflect upon myself, that ever
I thought so much of the scriptures; and called to my-
remembrance my father’s words, who often used to
say to me in my early age— “ Joanna, my dear child,
why dost thou exercise thyself in things too high for
thee ? It must be milk for babes, but wine for men of
stronger years.” This was often his gentle reproof,'
when seeing me affected in reading the gospel. Here
I thoughthis advice good, and determined in myheart
not to ponder so deeply as I had done; but the more I
thought to give it up, the more the Bible broke in
upon me, and seemed as though I had ministers
preaching in myears. In this confusion I spent the day
in tearsand prayers, and could have said with St.Paul,
whether iti my senses or out of my senses I could not
tell; but trembled for fear I should have lost them.
It is fruitless to pen the particulars of that week ;
but at the end I was powerfully told that I should go
to the class meeting, and tell the people what had
happened unto m e; and what was also in their hearts
and thoughts concerning me. This I trembled to do;
but being threatened that the Lord would withdraw
his Spirit from:me, if I did not do aslw as commanded;
this made me go with trembling steps; and when 1
came. I thought many times I should have fainted at
the meeting,as the classleaderbegan with these words,
“ let us come to the purpose of the things that are
present,,and say no more ofthe things which are past.’*
This took all fortitude from me, and I thought of leav-
86
Digitized by Google __
ing the meeting, as I grew taint; butw as an gered
. I should not—and then the Lord restored my courage,
and I told them I thought it was the powers of dark­
ness that had given me such an account of them, that
such things as before-mentioned were in their hearts
and minds concerning me, to set me against them.
But finding the class leader was silent, and the men
looking one upon another with confusion in their coun-.
tenances; I began to grow jealous and thought to
myself what can all this mean ? I was answered by
the Spirit I should leave the meeting for good.
.The next day I was earnest in prayer., being jea­
lous for myself as well as for them : but I was an­
swered what I was told was the truth—the veryhearts
and thoughts of the. men. I said to myself, Mr- E.
is a good man ; and I never will believe any other.
I was answered that Mr. Eastlake.was a good man,
and an humble Christian before the Lord; but he
must come more out of himself, and rely more upon
the wisdom of God. I will make this a deep-con­
vincing proof to him and to all mankind.
This strange working of the Spirit within,, and '
seeing every (ace formed against me without,of these
my companions, whom I thought religious, made me
weary heaven with prayers, to know if it was the
command of God or not; I mean the. going to speak
as I had in the class meeting. Thus I continued
forfour days, pleading the words and the promises of.
G od: when all on a sudden I thought the voice of
the Lord came to me .with powei^—
“ It was I the
Lord, that sent thee unto them ; and my loving kind-
ness I will never takefrom thee: it is impossible for
man to attempt it; Ibid men pray for mercies, but not
to direct the hand of the Almighty.” Then follow­
ed the words spoken in verse in my first book—
** In thunder now the God the silence broke,
And from a cloud his lofty language spoke:
Who, and where art thou, O fond, presumptuous man, 1
That by thy own weak measures mine would span ?
Undaunted as an equal match for me, ‘ \ ;
Stand forth, and answer my demands ef thee;
.'87 .
Digitized byGoogle
as ‘ -
But first let thy original be trac’d,
And tell me then what mighty thing thou wast,
When to the world my potent word gave birth*
And fix’d my centre on the floating earth j
Didst thou assist me with one single thought.
Or my ideas rectify in aught
These words were delivered to me in avoice, which
seemed to mix both love and anger together; and this
made me earnest in prayer to know its meaning; and
I was answered, the Lord Was angry with them for
•directing the hand of the Almighty, whose ways were
as far from man's ways, as the heavens were distant
from the earth. These strange things brought me into
a stow fever; for I brought myself almost lifeless by
fervent prayer. I then went into the country to my
sister's for tne benefit of the air; Where the powers of
darkness so strongly assaulted me for ten days, as is
written in my first book. So my controversies began
with the devil, and will end with men; for as the dif­
ferent spirits invisible I contended with in 1792, so
now I snail contend with the same spirits now visibly
in man.—The spirits of the Lord working in one part,
and the spirits of darkness Working in the other:
for I find (he spirits of men now visible,, as 1 found
theft the spirits invisible.
But here I shall proceed to give a. further ac­
count o f what happened in 1792. After the
powers of darkness bad left me, and the Spirit of
the Lord came strong upon me, and renewed my
former strength ; I returned back to Exeter, and
was. persuaded by some of my friends to join the
society again; but I told them what had hap­
pened, and1assured them it came from the Lord,
and that I knew i t ; at which they marvelled, and
eould scarce give it credit. The next day 1 was
powerfully answered in prayer, that it was true,
and it wasfrom the Lord: andT should go to Mr.
E. and he would confess the tru th ; and the Lord
would dcaw him by another man to come to me.
The Sunday following I m et the man, and he ert-
Digitized by _
Google
treated me to join the meeting again. I told him
they had judged me wrongfully; and-.asked whom
we ought to obey, God or man 9 He answered,
the-L ord; I told him that I h a d ;'a n d would
never more go to the meeting, unless Mr. £ . would
tell- me the truth. He said he would go to Mr.
E. and would make him come to m e; and was as
good as his word. Mr. E. came, and I told him
all I have written, and as much more. He con­
fessed all was true ; but wished I had told them,-
that the Lord had commanded me- to, speak of
past experience; for then he said no one would
nave been offended ; but there had been a great
deal said about it, He then desired me to come
and join them again. Finding the truth of all,
I returned home and made a promising prayer,
that) as the Lord had been so graciousand good
to me, tp lay every heart open before me, and
every tongue to confess the truth ; I would live in
perfect obedience to all his command^ so long.as
I lived; and earnestly prayed,, that the Lord
would uot suffer any wrong spirit to deceive me,
but Jccep me as in the hollow of his. hand, as the
apple of his eye, and that by- the Qod of truth*
I might be led into every truth. j):; ..;t; /
... The morning following the Spirit of the Lord
broke in upon me, and I was ordered to go to the
class meeting in their own wisdom, and tell them
that the Lord had sent me unto them, to reprove
their harsh judging,; for who is he that judgeth .
another ? They were no doers o f the law but
judges; -and they should not direct the hand of
the Almighty; for his ways were not as man’s ways,
or his thoughts as man’s thoughts. Thus being
ordered to go and reprove them, chilled my heart
and soul within,me; well knowing, if they had been
offended with my speaking of the goodness of Go4
to me, they would be much more offended, if I
went to reprove them : so that I thought it impos­
sible to go; but 1 was answered by the Spirit,
that I should remember my promise—
i c .
$9
* Digitized by v ^ o o g i e
V WJien thou hast made a tow to GdcT,
* D«fer nol (hen (o pray; > \
Par Gdd ba» no dpligbt ia fpols^
Who mock him. in delay.
• ^bese, and many more words to the same pur­
pose, made me determine, if they were all against
me, suffer what I would, I Would persevere, and
do as I ’W
&
S' commanded. But the powers of
darkness pressing hard upon me, my own fears
began to alarm me, thinking I should not have
strength of mind, HOr utterance of speech, to- go
through, without some assistance : therefore- I
prayed the’Lord would permit me to go td Mr.
Eastlake, this class leader, and consult with Him*.
I was answered—" g o to Eastlake, and do as he
directs thee, and thou Wilt see what man is /”
The Saturday night I dreamed I was in St. Peter's
church, Exeter, and trying to seat myself On a
Chair, it gave way, and I was near falling.- When
I awoke, I was answered by the Spirit— " so will
Eastlakte dderive thee..Thoutrustest in man, and
thOU wilt see w hat man is.” When I came-out of
St. Peter’s f spoke to Mr. Eastlake,-and said I had
something to say to him ; but he very coollyain-
swered, and addressed a-rtOther -man, not heeding
my words. I then followed him slowly tiH he
came near his -hbuse, when the man left him ; hie
then looking -Codlly Oh me, said, he , would
speak to foe another time* At this I felt as though
a dagger held -been put to my heart, and jealousy
arose iu my breast—I went in to the fields where I
m ight have liberty to indulge my:sorrows alone.
Deep were my thoughts, tears, afed prayers—
Je&lous for myself, as thinking so good a man as
Mr.-Eastlake could not err. I was-answered—
** rf it be of man, it will come to nothing: if it
b e e f God they cannot overthrow it ; ;lest they
Urd found to fight against God. But thy frifends
are like Job's friends; because they’ cannot ac­
count for the WatmCr of God’s strange dealing
with thee: they are .sometimes ederit; atfd when
' 90 '
. Digitized by Google
I
I
they speak they speak wrong.” In this confusion
of my heart, I went into a building made for
cattle, and took out my common-prayer 'book,
and opened to the 110th psalm, and was deeply
struck with these Words—“ Thy people shall be
willing in the day o f thy power which gave me
' much comfort I then opened to the 72d psalm,
and was struck with ,the 18th and 19th verses—
“ Blessed be the God, the God o f Israel, who only
doeth zeondrous things: and blessed be'his glorious
name fo r ever; and let the whole earth be file d
with his glory” The psalms, with many power­
ful words coming to me, seemed to 'administer
some consolation tP my wounded heart; yet stitt
jealousy alarmed my breast, fearing I was led
into some errors, and in a retired manner alone I
spent the day. In the evening I was earnest in
prayer, that the Lord would direct me aright;
and I was answered, “ then have thy conversation
aright.” This alarmed- my jealousy, that all I had
been doing was w rong; and I said, how aright ?
I was answered, “ have thy conversation in the
world; and give up thy thoughts of religion, and
all will be well.” This I knew; came from the
powers of darkness; and said to myself, it is
written, “ ye shaft have your conversation in
heaven, and commune with -God in ybur hearts,
and he will commune with you.” I was answered
— “ if thou doest these things, thou wilt lose thy
senses; if thou doest not give up troubling thy­
self so much about religion.” I said to myself,
what then will become of me? If I give up re­
ligion, I am lost for ever; and I had rather lose ‘
my sepses than my soul. I was answered— “ why.
canst thop not do as others, who mind the world
and all is w ell?” Thus'being answered by the
powers of darkness increased my sorrows, as I
well' knew such arguments never came from the
Spirit of the1Lord ;1 and Piy troubles seemed
greater than I could bear. I was then answered—
' C 2 -
91
Digitized
ed by C j O O ^ I c
4
“ heaviness may endurefo r a night, but joy cometh
in the morning ”
“ A tedious night shall a bright morning have,
“ And then thy soul4ball take her old abode,
“ And cloth'd in flesh thou shalt behold thy God/*
These words gave me ease, and I wished for the
dawn of the returning day* I was much com­
forted in the m orning; and after sitting at my
labour many hours, pondering in my heart all
that was past, and thinking with myself, why I
was ordered to do all as Mr. Eastlake directed m e;
and he had directed me to nothing, but deferred
to another tim e} then an holy fear seized my' soul,
and I felt as though 1 had been in the presence of
the Most H igh: when a powerful voice came
through me—*
* I no more intended thou shouklest
go to the class meeting to reprove them, than I in­
tended Abraham should offer up his son Isaac. ; I
only did it to try thy obedience ; and as far as thou
hadst in thy heart to obey, so far will I reward
•thee. For now will I swear unto thee, as I did
unto Abraham, that I will make with thee an ever­
lasting covenant, and 1. will save thee with an
everlasting, salvation. Thou shalt prophesy in my
name,;,and I will bear thee witness.” What fol­
lowed you will see in the 27th page of my first book.
N >Here I have given my readers in what a strange
manner I was led on to believe the words from the
iruth I had been,told, of what was in the hearts
and thoughts of men. Here the wisdom of God
may appear foolishness with m en; and I must
answer, that the wisdom of men hath appeared
foolishness with me. For as Hezekiah, who was
a good man, when the Lord left him to himself, to
see what he would do, did wrong; so I see all
men, when left to.themselves, do wrong. Here I
shall drop this subject, and insert an anonymous
letter that wap sent to me by the wisdom of man,
but who was ashamed of putting his name to i t ;
and well he. might.. How unmanly do men ap­
pear, to take it upon them to reprove a woman,
92
Digitized by Google
and not have manly courage to own their names,
fearing their deeds should be reproved ! So they
loved darkness rather than light, because their
deeds are evil. Now I shall put this wise letter in
print, and shew the writer he hath gathered his
light from the moon: but when the light of the sun
arises, the light of the moon disappears; for the’
moon cannot lighten the day %neither can the wri­
ter of this letter answer one word of a thousand,
when I begin to point out the day-light to him.
Here follows his letter, word for word.
*
* Mrs. S o u t h c o t t ,
“ Time and circumstances, the best tutors of all
others, I should suppose must have opened your
eyes, and have convinced ybu, and your deluded
followers, that your communications are not from
the fountain of truth. Had you er they been open
to conviction, the lame excuse concerning your fa­
ther’s death on the 22d of September, was sufficient
evidence to prove you in error: but admitting that
had not, the death of the worthy Basil Bruce, surely
was more than enough to determine the whole bu- *
siness ; as you positively declare that the Lord had
chosen him and his father to go to Exeter and judge
your writings :• but it was as though the Lord had
spoken with an audible voice, he died the very
night that the rest set off for Exeter. Your trifling
attempt to interpret this solemn affair, only proves
that the Lord knows not to-day what he shall do to­
morrow. I may, perhaps, be told that the Lord has
been pleased to deal in this way with his prophets.
Such an answer as this may satisfy those who do not
judge for themselves: but those who have made the
Bible their study,'and even the writer of this, is
ready to prove that the Lord never gave a positive
command, and like a weak man, repented of what
he had done; disannulling his former command:— <
this is making the eternal Lord of Heaven more in­
consistent than the fabulous heathen gods, who,
when they decreed or svvore by the infernal Styx,
pever violated their oath.
93
\ Digitized by Google
H
“ But were the circumstances I have mentioned
incapable of convincing you, and your followers,
surely the present one before, them is sufficient;—
you tell them that this last May would be “ afatal
May fo r man* and that as soon as June made its
appearance people were to be convinced that your
•writings were given from the Spirit ©f truth. May
is past, nothing uncommon has taken place } June
is .here, yet all things remain as they were: what
miserable excuse is to be brought forward now ? Is
thefatal thins to be understood to mean, that a.few
letters have oeen sent to a parcel of men, the
greater part of whom neither believe in God, Devil,
Heaven, or Hell? Alas! my good woman, open
your eyes, and read your Bible. This is the com­
mand of the Lord, “ they kave Moses and the pro­
phets* Now then let us be honest to G?bd and our*j
selves, and be tried by the word of God. When
the children of Israel desired to know how they
were to know a true and a.false prophet, Moses
says, “ I f thou say in thine hearty how shall voeknow
■ ' the word which the Lord hath not spoken ? When a
a prophet speaketh in the name of the Lord, if the
thingfolloto not, nor come to pass, that is the thing
which the Lord hath not spoken; the prophet has
‘spoken it presumptuously : thou shall not be afraid
of him." Now, agreeable to the positive declara­
tion of the word of God, you have spoken presump-
' tubusly; as the things you have mentioned have
neither lifollowed nor come to pass f ’ from which it
appears evident, that you have presumed to speak
in the name of the Lord, what he has not com­
manded : therefore I refer you to the 20th verse of
the same 18th chapter,—“ but the prophet tohich
shall presume to speak a word in my name, which I
'have not commanded him to speak, even that prophet
•shall die." Ezek. xiii. “ Thus, saith the Lord God,
W oe,unto the foolish prophets, that follow their own
spirit, and have seen nothing; they have seen vanity
. and-lying divination, saying the Lord saith, and the
Lord hath not sent them, and they have n)ade others
^ Digit!
itizetfby C j Q O ^ l c
to "hope thajt they would confirm, the word- Have
ye not seen a vain vision, and have ye not spoken
a lying divination ? Whereas ye say the Lord saith
it, albeit I have not spoken, and mine Jiand shall be
upon the prophets that see vanity, and that divine
lies j they shall not be in the assembly of my people*
neither shall they be written in the writing of the
house of Israel, neither shall they enter into the
land of Israel.”
“ It has been a custom with me never to con­
demn 'any one. Whenever I have done so from my
own spirit I have generally found my6ejf in an error;
which has given me pain > if the sacred word con­
demns any one, they stand condemned without my
poor condemnation»but wheneyer the word QfQpQ. .
condemns, I should be a traitor to the truth, if J yva?
to say, it is not so. I, perhaps, may be told thaf
many things mentioned by Mr. Brothers have nof
come to pass, and that those who have taken up
you? writings may with as great propriety believe,
what you nave said, though it has fallen out con­
trary, as to believe Mr. Brothers, whose writings
they profess to believe ; but it is not possible, sp
far, to prove that any one thing he mentioned has
wared in- its accomplishment; even the very dates
have not yet failed;—whenever tjney do, be as­
sured such communication cannot have been given
by the spirit of God.
“ The writer of this hopes you will have honesty
and candour enough to let the whole be read be- .
fore those poor deluded men yourfolloxoers; he has *
no objection, if fr is necessary for the sake of de-.
fending the word of God, to come forward; but
as he seeks neither applause or popularity, he for
the present conceals his name: but if you are .
afraid of coming .to the only fountain we have
given us for determining what is true, the con­
tents of this letter will be given.”
This letterwas received Monday,June 21,1802.
The following are the names of the gentlemen *
95
Digitized by Google
Alluded to in the above letter, under the name o f
poor deluded men: they being convinced that Jo­
anna Southcott’s writings are of divine authority,
and published by divine command, particularly
request their names to be published to the world
at large in this book, Rey. Stanhope Bruce, Rev.
Thomas Webster, Rev. Thomas P. Foley, William
Sharp, George Turner, and John Wilson. One
gentleman being absent, we have not taken the
liberty of inserting his name.
Now I have given my readers the anonymous
letter that was sent me, 1 shall now answer for
myself, to such poor deluded men; who judge of
things they know nothing about; but like men
looking in the fervent sunshine, whose bright
splendor is too strong for their eye-sigbt‘; and go­
ing into a dark room become sun-blind. And
this is the darkness of men’s understanding: see-
. ing the day-light of the gospel thrown ppeh be­
fore them Ay a woman, bright as the fervent sun;
truths of the prophecies clear as the moon ;
which is as much too strong for their weak judg­
ment as the fervent sunshine is for their eye-sight
—for they can no more look into the divine
brightness and beauty of the one than the other.
And thus being lost by the divitie beauty and
splendor, they go and consult with their dark be­
nighted minds, where no light is;and so they grope
for the wall like the blind. I will not say the writer
ofthe above letter was a fool; but I say he is a man
void of understanding, and has concealed his name
knowing that if his deeds we'rebrought to the light^
he would be reproved: and then he could not an­
s w e r for himself. ' ' '
But now I will answer for myself. It was written,
if my father died at the appointed time, then Christ’s
kingdom must be established at whatever time my
writings were proved; but if he did not, Christ’s
kingdom would not be. established at that time.
Before the appointed time was up I wrote to one of
my friends, and said oty father must out-run the
9S
Digitized by Google
jtime specified, though when I wrote the letter he apv
peared to me to be a dying man; but he out-rap the
time as I said. I then wrote to another of my friends,
that he would die at a time he was not judged to die
—unexpectedly and suddenly it would appear,
Now I must inform my readers that the very day
my father was death-seized, I saw my. brother-in-
law, and asked him, when lie saw my father? He
answered, last week; and he never saw him look
better; and thought he would out-live him- A few '
.days after I received a letter that my father was
dying: and when I came to see him, found he was
seized with convulsion fits, which caused his death,
the very day my brother judged he would out-live
him : and my sister’s son said the week before that
he thought his grandfather would live for ten years :
he looked so well, so ruddy and lively. So my fa­
ther died according to my prophecies spoken of
him, having out-run the time I said at first, and'
died at a time unexpected at last—and so will the
coming of Christ's kingdom be.
And now I shall answer for Mr. Bruce. I
grant he was chosen with his worthy father to judge
of my writings, as one of the twelve; and as they
were coming down tq Exeter to judge them, he was
called to his Father in heaven; so he went one
journey to' Christ’s kingdom in heaven; while his
father was pursuing his, to prove Christ’s kingdom
upou earth. 4^4 here the father and the son were
separated on earth, at the second coming of Christ; ■
that was compared to the shadow of Christ; as the
Fatherand the Son were separated in heaven at the
first coming of C hrist.' Now let the blind to see,
and the deaf to hear. Mr. Bruce and his son were
compared as types and shadows of the Father and
Son in heaven; ‘but how could this shadow be per­
fectly like the substance, if they had not been.parted
on earth, as they were in heaven ? For as the Son
of God left liis Father’s throne, and came down to
dwell amongst men, when he came to bring in his
9 t
Digitized by b o o g i e
gospel, to be wounded for our sins, and to be brui­
sed for our iniquities, and the chastisement of our
peace was laid upon him; to be the judge of all men,
ne dwelt amongst m en; and so the father and the
son were divided, that they might judge together
of heaven and earth. Now I roust answer, that
the worthy Mr. Bruce was chosen with hisfather to
judge ofme and my writings, when the saints must
judge the earth. -So to make the perfect likeness o f
the Father and Son, the Lord parted them on earth
as they were parted befdre in heaven—that the
son might ascend up into glory, and judge of things
in heaven, while the father is judging of things on
earth ; that the son might give up aU judgment to
God ; and be a clear proof to man of the second
coming of Christ, by parting the father and the son
at his second coming ; as the Father and the Son
were parted at thefirst. So this brings the shadow
and the substance together.
** For now the last is like the first,
And now my kingdom it shall burst;
For as the shadows do appear,
Just so the substance 1 snail clear.
The Father and the Son were plac’d as one,
But when the prophecies of man were come.
They then divided, and the Son, you see,
Did leave his Father, and came down to ye.
But unbelief did then in man appear,
And now the likeness I to all shall clear;
For now the second poming does appear,
The father and the son are parted here:
But sep, in judgment they stand both as one;
And now unto tne purpose I shall come,
judges together J say both do stand,
And all an?y see it Dy his written hand
How bo|h in judgment these two do agree.
And now J’ll answer all the mystery;
Should I as simple now like man appear,
And say the likeness $ shall now compare; .
Tq part the father,.aqd to take the son.
To shew the likeness did in heaven begin, *
‘ To tell the truth I knew they could not bear;
But mark the letter, end you may see clear;
I said the mourning it was sent for me,
Arid with the ointment it shquid all agree.
For well you know the son 6ri earth did fall;
I said the funeral soon would prove his call;
' ; . 98
^Digitized by C j O C K ^ Ic
Thatjike the Son he would to all appear,
And by his death Fll prove the likeness here.
But if the likeness I had made more plain,
Could they have borne it th e n t (his friends I mean.)
Oh simple men, for to direct your G od!
I told his death though ’tvvas not understood $
And so my gospel I did speak the same,
And now Fll answer, O ye simple men!
I said the buildings I would 90on destroy ;
But let the meaning men for to enjoy,
The devil's wisdom he in them had plac'd.
But now be wise, O all ye fallen race;
for as that mystery you did not see plain;
Then now by Bruce the same you do contend;
Though plainer mysteries lay before your view,
He was the judge, I'll prove hisjudgment true:
And to his rather now.he all hath given up,
And so you see his life did surely drop.
So here the likeness you may all see plain ;
And now in judgment this I’ll now maintain ;
The father here pronounc’d the judge alone.
Then sure the son must die to make it come,
, As in the funeral service doth appear.
. And now the mysteries I to all shall clear ;
For here’s the very father, and the son,
Vyho subject unto God must now become;
That put the serpent now beneath his feet.
Here lies the mystery, and the truth is great$
Because the Son of God cannot appear
In such subjection as is liken’d there;
But to be subject must inferior,be.
So now I’ve shew’d you plain the mystery ;
For to be subject is the son of man;
And now to reason I shall strong, begin ;
As in the burial service doth appear,.
Then every mystery I will now make clear.”
The last eneniy that is to be destroyed is death;
and that death was passed on man by the fall.
Then when all is put under foot by the u n i t e d
T b i n i t y , to bring in the perfect u n i t y of G o d
and m a n ; then comes in the likeness of God’s
image; and now is ^he likeness begun from my
gospel, spoken by the Spirit. I will end, and come
to the words I said unto Peter—when one said I
-was Elias, another said John the baptist; I asked
Peter who he said I was? He answered; thou art
Christ the Son of the living God. Now mark my
answer—“ Blessed art thouBar-jona, for flesh and
99
Digitized by G o o g l e
blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but the spirit
of the living God. And on this rock will I build
m y church.—And now mark the first letter I or­
dered thee to send to Bruce; and on this rock will
I now build my church, and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it. For now I answer, these
men that I ordered thee first to write to, some said
on one hand, and some said on another; but these
seven have said it is from the living God; and on
this rock will I build my church.
“ For now the living God he shall appear,
:And every mystery f to man will clear;
As in one Spirit they do all agree, /
And here's the rock that eyery soul shall see,
Where all the gates of hell shall not prevail;
But at that time you know the words did fail:
Because the gates of hell were open wide.
But here's the mystery shall be now applied:
I'll surely shut, and none shall open here;
And every mystery I,to man will clear; *
Because these hearts are opened unto me ;
My seven Spirits surely in them be.
And now I tell theip there’s no man cart shut ;
And death and hpll may tremble at their feet.
For May is over, June doth now appear,
Wise*fools, I tell you now for to take care:
For such a May was never seen by man;
The second star is sentthroughout your land,
To shew my second coming doth appear,
And I’m rejected—now I say take care.
My sieals ate broken and turn’d back by man;
I spoke of May, and May, I say, is gone.
So now in June my answer doth appear;
Judge well your nation, and the whole compare.
" So altogether see how this doth stand,
And then you’ll know how now to juclge your land ;
For such a thing was never done before,
Throughout the land to send the second star ;
For all shall know that sta r is sure m y seal,
What to the Bride my Spirit did reveal.
V So now, wise fools,-you’ve boasted all too soon;
•’But mark, your sun you’ll find to cloud ere noon.
Because the C dofh with the ?t^r appear;
* And all shall know my chariot wheels are here;
V . For in the Spirit here I say I’m come,
And you may find me in the Roman’s form;
But not a heathen god appear to be, 1
To swearby Styx.—Vajin man, now answer me.;
100
Digitized by
If I a father cfojto man appear,
He threatens long before he strike* severe,
And as your right hand you do little know’
,
Ifve waited patient and kept back the blow;
But as your boasting 1 do see so soon,
Mark well. I’ve told you what should come In June*
And now my answer to you doth appear;
Wise fools, 1 tell ye, you have all to fear:
For here's my answer now turn'd back in June—
Once more I tell you, you did boast all too soon.
For as the truth you do not seek to know,
Then groping for the walls you all.may go;
Because from you it surely is conceal'd,
What to my chosen members is reveal'd.
But what vain vision doth to you appear*
That like the heathen gods you mb compare?
And hope that others will confirm the word ;
Just like yourselves you all dojudge your’God;
Much like a dog, to bite before he barks;
And now my gospel you've judged in the dark.
Because dumb dogs I call'd them all before,
That could not bark ; and now the tru th see clear.
But like a clock my words shall ever stand ;
He warns before he strikes, and now command;
Because this May I've warning sent to all;
One thousand letters sheW you every call, \
That I've sent out to warn you one and all.
And now this warning if they all despise, 1
I say, too late, they'll surely grow more wise.
So of.my patience let men mock no more; }
My eye is kindled, and'they may see here ^
How that thy eye is kindled to a flame,
*And they shall surely find my eye’s the same;
Because the voice of wisdom it is hete,
And loudly calling men for to appear.
But wisdom's voice, I see 'tis ail in vain J v
The lepers still I see their spots remain:
Far what is black, I see will not be white;
And if the mortar doth the foolish break,
I see their folly they will still contain.
Then now be wise, O all ye sons of men;
For in the mortar I have bray’d them all,
By syvord, by famine, and by every call;
Because the sword you know it has been here/
And so the famine'has been to the poor:
And all these shadows there’s no man doth pee;
Then now I tell you all a mystery:
In ages back, it ever was the same,
For Satan always did this kingdom claim; -
Because the woman by his arts did fall;
Then now be Wise, I tell you one and all,
101
Digitized by
ids’
That now the woman doth my promise claim ;
And here's her seed, O all ye simple men,
Who I’ve deluded ts believe her word;
And m their hand Fve surely put the sword,
That all shall find will cutthe serpent down ;
And on this rock my church shall now be found,
That all the gates of bell *ha1
1not prevail.
I’llact by man, as they’re acted by my seal:
And &
Hshall find this hath been May for man,
As never was before since earth began*
“ So now, wife fools, I’d have you boast no more/
But see my eye how ’tis inflamed here;
Because my eye they ail may see iffthee ;
As thine’s inflam’d, they’ll find the eye of me ; '
But as the ether doth not feel the pain,
Jmt so, my friends, my eye to them remains.
Sp by thy eyes the public now may 9©e
What is,my heart, and know the eye of me-
as thy eye’s inflam’d on the right side,
Just so tny anger’srig h ti as now’s applied;
But as the left is so near thy heart,
Just so my friends shall never feel the smart;
And as thy sight to all men dothappear,
I tell you; England, you may hope and fear.
So now pf boating let themsay no more;
There’s no vain vision doth to you appear;
But by thy sight I shall confirm the whole.
Weigh all toother, let your reason fall;
For tunes ana circumstance will soon appear/
To prove to man my eye’s Inflamed here.
“ So now the letter let them all weigh deep;
The man in silence let hku silence keep $
Or stronger reasons let him to assign,
To prove to man the writings are not mine
Because the great A line, he cannot see;
A partial judge no judge at all can be.
Because that Brothers he said did not err;
Then ’tis from Satan must his truth'appear ;
Because pf late I’ve surety left the man,
To shew yo u Satan and his every plan;
T hatjf the woman did not interfere,
You men would find tfie serpent to appear,
With every art as much, to cheat the m^n;
And so your Maker you have blam’d in, vain ;
And now like Satan you do tempt your Godp
To send down vengeance* and you call my rod ;
And when my rodinvfcugpance dothappear,
You must confess you all did,ask it here.. .
For, as at first, you did the woman blame*
And so at last your God you’ve done the satne;
Digitized by Google
For now at last the same you’ve blam'd your God.
So now your fig-leaves let them to be show’d,
That you together have so vainly sew’d ;
If they can cover, let your fig-leaves do;
For all your clothing I shall take away.
And now, O men! hear ye> what I do say ;
I’ve other clothing you must all put on,
If naked garments you’ll confess are come;
^ Then all your garments I will give anew ; '
Weigh well the words and you shall find it true.
^ But if your fig-leaves now you wish to wear,
Then my new garment? you can never bear ;
Because my clotiling it must now be new ;
I ’ll mend no longer 5 for It will not do;
'For worse and worse I see the rent is made;
And never was a nation more misled
Than those who judge that e’er a woman’s hand
Such wondrous writings,ever could command,
TLJnless from'God the words wei*e surely cast.
Ancf here’s the wine will make the bottles burst,
As .the new wine does to yoa all appear;
Then the old bottles, let them now take care ;
But for the bottles I have now made hew,
The wine’s the same; and bring ailto your view;
So both together now I say will stand;
And so in the end you all will find the land.
So I’ll conclude with warning to the wise; r:
Another day I shall them ail surprise.”
Here is the answer to the^inonymous letter. But ■
having mentioned aboutmy eyes, which may appear
puzzling to my readers,\I must inform: them have
had an inflammation in my right eyeeversince I came
to London. And I was told that the eye of the Lord
was as much inflamed against the people,;as mine
appeared to the sight; because they had rejected the
word of the Lord ; and let them take care the Lord
does not.reject them. And I must inform my readers
that these signs have often been set before me. For,
in January, 1796, I had an inflammation seized my
Anger; and itwas then said, it should he as a sign to
me, that men’s hearts would be inflamed the same,
and their hands would break out against their go­
vernors ; I shall leave particulars; only call to your
remembrance that the following year sevenhundred
.men mutinied on the sea; some %ere hanged in the
ships, and some were shot in Plymouth, tied to their
103
Digitized by Google
,io4
Coffins. Ip January, 1800, I had an inflammatioi?
seized my leg,* at ■first it appeared a small spot; but
when that was removed, it broke out more and more,
till both legs becamg inflamed ; if was then said to
be as a sign to me, that the heat of tire summer
Would bring in a dearth, and men’s hearts Would be
inflamed like my feet; I shall leave all the particu­
lars ; but only call my readers to reflect, that the truth
followed in the 1800, and men’s hearts were infla­
med as before mentioned; and mobs rose in various
parts of the kingdom, the springafter, and were pa­
cified, as it was said to me, by the prudent care
of men, as by the prudent care of the apothecary my
legs had been cured. But further particulars I
shall now leave, as the substance follows the
shadows — so now judge for yourselves. When
the eye of the* Lord is inflamed, I may answer
with St. Paul, “ Who is afflicted’and burn not?
Here I shall drop this subject, and insert a particu­
lar circumstance I was commanded to do. Being
invited with ,my friends to dine at a gentleman’s,
house, I was ordered to obey. But when the day ar­
rived for me to go, I felt such a gloom come over me,
that I wished to decline going, if I could with any
propriety; but knpwing it would be imprudent, I
wentv When I arrived there! found freedom with the
master and mistress ofthe house; my heart seemed to
be drawn particularly to the mistress; butsoonafter a
stranger came in,when I feltmyselfhurt, and my spi­
rits became so oppressed that I could scarcely speak.
While I was. at dinner I thought I would have
given any thing to be out of the company, as I fete
no freedom ofspeech; and thoughtit was casting of
pearls before swine, and that which is holy before
dogs, to speak before that same stranger. I spoke
to the mistress concerning him ; but she begged me
to take no notice of him. So 1 began, but iu a con­
fused manner, as I felt my spirits much oppressed,
before three gentlemen entered the room ; l then
.felt a. sudden joy at their appearance, though I
thought before I went they were the very men up-
Digitized by Google
on whose account I should feel that load upon my
spirits; for I knew of their coming; but found my­
self deceived. The person who occasioned my
embarrassment was to me unknown of being there,
but others gave me pleasure when they arrived;
and I felt embarrassed as before when they were
gone; but freedom of spirit whilst they were there.
This circumstance I was ordered to put in print,
with the answer of the Spirit as follows:
*' Now thou hast ended Pll begin—
In print let all these truths be seen ;
For now the mysteries I shall clear,
And tell thee why I sent thee there. ,
All hearts I know, all hearts Pll try,
And then my arrows fast shaU fly.
My Spirit it is just like thine; a
I know the stranger, and his mind;
My kingdom he don't wish to see;
He neither loves his God or thee ;
For Satan did his spirit draw,
And I drew thine the truth to know,
That light with darkness can't appear;
For what communion can be there ?
For God with Belial can't agree;
Then how thy heart could it be free,
When I within did know the man ?
I ’ve made thy spirit like my ow n;
And as my Spirit did appear,
A son of Belial sure was there;
Whose lukewarm heart could never see
The different love in man and me :
That I must sure complete your bliss.
If for my kingdom you do thirst;
And all your hearts I must refine,
And love must kindle at the time ;
For all shall know that God is love,
And so my friends they all shall prove;
For there's no man can dwell in me.
That in this love doth not agree;
For all shall find my heart like thine;
Thou wast impatient at the time,
And. didst not wish to tarry there;
And now the mystery I shall clear.
I tell thee I am just the same ;
Men only laugh to hear my nam'e ;
f Therefore unpleasant'tis to me,
Such lukewarm chi istians for to see ;
When all my Bible's made so clear,
And Satan snail be conquer'd here;
105
^ Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
I
And bring my glorious kingdom tlown ;
' Then these may tremble at the sound,
That now dislike the heavenly call;
And from that man PI1answer all,
That Pve a Spirit just like thee ;
The man thou didst not love to see,
Nor with-him there for to abide—
Ah ! here’s a field that’s open’d wide:
For all shall find I am the same,
And all such men I now shall name
> Are full as sickly unto $ie,
As his appearance was to thee.
But when the three they did appear,
I say my Spirit enter’d there;
For wrongly thou didstjudge the men,
As they condemn’d thee but unseen.
* But when these men do know the whole,
They’ll wish my kingdom for to fall;
A lively'Christian one will be ; ^
The man that took the eye of thee,
Though at thy words he there did laugh,
But mark the blot—Pve said enough ; ‘
* For he will laugh another way,
When I iny angels send lo h e;
, For strongly guarded Pll make all.
For Satan’s malice so will fall,
That if my friends I do not guard, .
I know their foes will be too hard.
But now Plhbe a man of war,
And every fbe#I now will clear;
v And all my friends they now shall see,
. That doubly guarded they shall be.
; . Therefore that w ord in thee I spoke.
Though he did laugh and seem to mock ?
But now Pd have him mock no more ;
For strong my guards must now appear,
* That he will surely find for all
. That now believe this heavenly call.
For now a father Pll appear,
And all my children Pll make heirs ;
And now a man of war I ’ll be,
And every foe, they now shall see,
Pll surely put beneath their feet,
And all shall find the victory’s great;
And now a king I will appear,
And princes now Pll make my heirs;
For as men’s lukewarm hearts I see,
My friends do kindle flames in me ;
Because I see their perfect love,
, And mine more strong they now shall prove*
But those that lukewarm do appear,
* My kingdom they shall never sW e:
106
For Pm the Counsellor now become ;
The mighty counsellor shallbe known;
And every trial now Fll plead,
And all my jury now HI lead
To speak in justice at my bar;
And from the judge I this shall clear,
The jury must the' sentence pass,
And then the judge condemns at last.
And so the judge I will appear,
And now the mysteries I will clear;
I'll judge the quick, HI judge.the dead ;
For so men's spirits now are led;
For some in death do now appear,
And so in death I'll judge them here;
But some are quicken'd by my power,
And they shall see the glorious hour,
To have my harvest to appear ;
And like the husbandman, see clear,
Rejoices in the harvest day,
For so my harvest now does lie;
For all together I'll cut down.
And now let all men judge the sound;
For now men's wisdom HI cut all,
Just like the harvest nojp shall fall;
That is men's wisdom, all must see,
Just like the corn-cut down must be;
' And so the wheat I know will fall,
Confess dead-ripe they are grown all.
For they in wisdom cannot grow;
Because the Bible you've ruo through.
And now the mysteries you'll see plain,
That this is come the harvest time;
And now my reapers do appear
To cut my wheat, and tell them here
Their wisdom can no longer grow:
They see'the stubble and the straw,
Whereon the bullocks they may feed,
But they are cut down, the wheat to breed.
For now the ground I'll make anew,
And like the husbandman I’ll do;
I'll fan my corn, I'll sow my wheat,
And now the increase I'll make great."
107
Here I shall break off this subject for the pre­
sent, and insert a few verses, that were spoken in
answer to my contending with men.
u As the furnace smoke ascended,"
So the smoke in man appears; s
But as the sound from Heaven resounds
W ith harmony so sweet
Digitized by L,ooQle
So will the end of all be found, '*
When you together meet.
To see all clear, thy hours draw near, .
And near does au come round;
And ninety-two brings to thy view
How different was the sound; 'X
For Satan came and did blaspheme,
And fill’d thy soul with woe ; '
Then did my angels visit thee,
And heavenly joys did flow.
So both did come to thee unseen,
But now the sight appears,
These different spirits both are come.
And both thou now seest clear; %
$0 what began'unseen to man,
•\ I s now seen plain to all;
And thou with hell didst first contend,
And.so goes on thy call.
So all is plain, when leatned mfen
Have weigh’d the matter deep;
It is with hell thou dost contend;
For he in man doth speak ; *
And angels here do now appear ;
For they do speak in man,'
And tell thee for to persevere,
lik e a good soldier stand.
So both are came the ranks to join,
And Ml join with my friends;
And Satan’s come to join his own—
- >
Mark well and see the end.14 •
108
L O N D O N ;
Printed by March&ntand Galtibia, Ingrain-Court; and sold by W. Tozek,
Chapel-Place, Dake-Street, Westminster-Ko&d, Southwark; also by W.
Symokdb, Gandy-Lane, and the Miss E v el eig h s, St. Sidwell’s, Exeter;
S. H ir st , Leeds; W. W adman, York; J a k e’
s L ig h t , Coventry-
Street, Stourbridge; E dm und B a r er , Ilminster; C. B ra d ley , Digbeth,
Birmingham; B . Go ld sm it h , Gravesend; and T. T u r p in , Greenwich.
(Price One Shilling.)
Digitized by Google
