{"name":"Worship Of The Elements","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1814__christie___worship_of_the_elements.pdf","mytitle":"Worship Of The Elements","mylang":"de"}
1
’
AN ESSAY
ON THAT
i
EARLIEST SPECIES OF IDOLATRY,
WORSHIP of the ELEMENTS.
BY J. CHRISTIE.
Bcti* t* jv fwatfpTtri—PlNDAR.
PRINTED AT THB STAWBOPIAN PRESS OP
STF. VEXSOS, MATCIIKTT, AND 8TEPT2N30N, NORWICH.
AND MAT BE HAD OF MESSRS. WHITE AND COCHRANS, FLEET-STREET,
AND OF MESSRS. PATHS AND FOSS, PALL-MALL, LONDON.
1814.
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION.
OT. Paul, in one of his reproofs to the Gentiles, has discovered
a knowledge of their idolatrous system, and declared the prin-
ciples of it in very significant terms.
" But now, (says he) after that ye have known God, or rather
are known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beg-
garly Elements, whereunto ye desire again to be in bondage ?”
Galat. 4. v. 0. He had drawn a comparison between the Jews
and the Galatian Gentiles, and represented the former, as here-
tofore pupils under the bondage of tutors, who taught them the
elements of the world, or the rudiments of worldly wisdom, or
of the law and its ceremonies;* the latter, as in bondage to
“ them, which by nature are no Gods." The Jews had been
admitted sons by adoption, the Gentiles became sons by the gift
of the spirit of God. He fears that his Galatian converts would
relapse into a state of bondage, and it must be observed, that
these Galatians were originally Pagans, and not Jewish Prose-
* n<r(tof implies ornament and order, and in a secondary sense the world, accord*
ingly r»xtia tS m affirmed of the Jews, may be no more than those principles of
conduct divinely ordained, which were sufficient for a seemly and becoming be*
hariour.
ii INTRODUCTION.
Iytes. For Locke observes, that wikn “ again," cannot here re-
fer to Xt*xim, “ Elements,” (understood, I presume, as Jewish
Ceremonies), “ which the Galatians had never been under hither-
to, but a bondage which he tells them, v. 8, they had been in
to false gods.”
If therefore, Erm^r* Elements, affirmed of the Jews, denoted
the Mosaic Ceremonies, the smae.vvurd affirmed of the Gentiles,
must denote their Pagan worship. It was evidently to excite in
his Galatian Converts an aversion from the Ceremonies of the
Law, that the Apostle placed these on a level with their pre-
vious Idolatry, and branded them with the same titles Locke
seems to have pursued the comparison no further, than as 8t.
Paul considered each to have been a state of bondage ; but
Whitby has observed, that the Mosaic and Pagan rituals were,
for matter, the same,* and if it l>e shewn, that an adoration of
the Elements constituted the ground of the Heathen worship,
which these converts doubtless by this time held in abhorrence,
the propriety' of St. Paul's comparison will further appear, and
his argument will be seen to have fallen with double force on
the Galatians, when he declared tlrat their adopting the Ceremo-
nies of the Law, were as feprelrensiblc as the reverting to thd^e
Elements, which had formed the base and spirit of their Idolatry.
Now, that their Idolatrous worship hnd l>eerf originally ad-
dressed to the Elements is literally trni ;f and however their
• See the Note of \\ hitby on Gal. 3. v. 19.
> ThL> is asserted of the Pefsiam by Ileiodotw, and of the ./Egyptians by Dio-
dorus. From the hurt of these the Greeks received their Theology, which their
Poets disguised and altered ; while the Romans derived their Teligious opinions from
Asia Minor, of which Galatia was a province.
Digitized by Google
I
INTRODUCTION. iii
polytheism, in later times, might have been designed to per-
sonify the attributes of their supreme Jnpiter, yet the Element*
were even then referred to, to represent those attributes. Thus
of the Homan Great Gods ( Dii Consenles}, ten out of twelve
were Elements: Vesta, Vulcan and Apollo, Fire nnd Light;
Neptune and Jupiter, Water and Rain; Juno, Mercury and
Minerva, Air; Diana and Ceres, Earth; Diana representing that
element by its animal productions,* as Ceres, by the vegetable.
The remaining two Consentes, Venus and Mars, implied sepa-
rately, Generation and Destruction, and jointly Nature, or the
mutual operation of the other ten. For Nature, is no more than
the growth and procession of perishable lrodies, or that Rule of
the Deify', according to which all things proceed, under his im-
mediate impulse and the incessant inspection of his providence.
But to omit any further instances, from people whose mytho-
logies are familiar to every’ one, and not to anticipate in this
place, what I shall have to submit respecting those of other
more remote, I here content myself with declaring the purport
of this Essay, which is to shew : wherefore the Elements were
referred to by early nations, and likewise to explain what was
understood of the Deity by the means of them, and by what
misconstruction they became objects of worship. From which
exposition, I trust it will appear, that as the Elements, or prin-
ciples of good order formerly established among the Jews, were
types or shadows of good things to come ;f in the same way
• Hence those strangely accoutred figures of the Ephesian Diana, engraved in
Montfaucon, and elsewhere.
t Thus much is implied by St. Paul in his use of the word mgiT, in the 25th
digitized by Goti3£
iv INTRODUCTION.
also, the Mundane Elements worshipped by the Pagans, were
adopted as shadows of good things, either experienced or pro-
mised ; and that the true record of the one, and the completion,
or full assurance of the performance of the other, are to be
found in the Holy Scriptures.
rate of the chapter above cited ; when he «aji, that Sinai it a mountain of Arabia,
and aniwereth (tvrwx»l to Jcnnalem, which now i«.
Digitized by Google
*—^MMiiiM m<m* rnmmmt+0*umjam
* MOMrfMMti-h
l^jt$lfm^ —maw mu. <w——q —d iw
5N that Bond of Duty which originally connected Man
with his Creator was broken, and Man became obnoxious to
Sin, expiatory Sacrifices were instituted by Divine Command,
prefigurative of a more complete atonement. They were after-
wards disfigured by many human additions, which, however
gross and vain, must nevertheless be considered as attempts, on
the part of man, to approach to God, expressing a sense of
alienation, the deterioration of man’s nature, and a hope of
restitution. To this sense of exclusion from the presence and
favor of the Deity, was added the fear of excision, as due to sin,
and as was actually experienced in the Flood, with a partial
exception. This fallen state and merited punishment have
been implied, if not directly acknowledged, in every sacred rite
of the Gentile world, in their Sacrifices and Ceremonies, in
the fables of their Poets, and the devices of their Sculptors,
which also had their origin in Religion. It is a very striking
proof of the first of these notions entertained by the Greeks, to
omit for the present any other idolatrous people, that the
Symbol of Restoration placed in the hand of their Hercules,
c
2
was the triple fruit, the fruit vainly supposed to have been
capable of conferring life, by which man fell. This, as the
Greeks reported, was to be gathered in the Garden of the Hes-
perides, the Eden of those Pagans. It was by the means of
such Sculptures as these, that early nations expressed their
Religious hope. In developing the meaning of them, we can
trace with tolerable clearness, tire view they took of the first
history of mankind, and with it the progress of error.
This history in die immediate Postdiluvian ages, was pre-
served by traditions, which it was afterwards designed should be
perpetuated by symbols. The story of the Pillars of Seth,
though a mere fiction, shews at least, that oral tradition could
Rot wholly be depended upon, and that something more lasting
became very soon desirable. The first histories, therefore, would
be handed down more or less faithfully, in proportion as the
means of commemorating them were perspicuous or ill con-
ceived. The early use of Alphabetick Characters can by no
means be inferred from this fiction. That the use of symbols
preceded that of letters, and that the former were devised not
earlier than the dispersion at Babel, may be concluded from
several considerations. The longevity of man before the flood,
rendered written records less necessary in those times. The use
of a written character would have led to the forming a standard
for language, which might have interfered with the merciful dis-
pensation of the Almighty in the dispersion. And the oljserva-
tions of learned men have shewn, that the primitive forms of
letters were but the abridged representations of things. So that
the precise period at which Symbols were invented, seems to be
Digiti zed by Coogle
3
more truly expressed, than actually intended by Diodorus,
when he thus affirmed of inarticulate speech : “ At the time
when speech was indistinct and confused (confoundedJ
,
they by
degrees expressed themselves in a more articulate manner, and
appointed symbols to represent the objects under consideration,
by which means they were able to explain themselves intel-
ligibly.”*
The use of symbols therefore, gave rise to letters; the abuse
of them produced Idolatry. In tracing the latter, we must con-
sider the principal objects at that time to be recorded, which
doubtless, were, the nature of the Deity and his commands, the
revelations of his presence, his judgements, and his promises:
because, the happiness of man depended on a correct knowledge
of these, and on regulating his conduct accordingly. In the
second place we may presume, that the selection of symbols
would be made from natural objects, as the most evident and
intelligible. Thus the nature of the Deity as a spirit, might
have been symbolised by wind, bis presence by tire, his judge-
ments and mercies by water, and his promises by earth and its
fruits. The original tradition, of the spirit of God moving on
the waters of chaos, and of all things being created by his word,
when he said—“ Let there be, and it was,” would have fur-
nished probable occasion for the adoption of the first mentioned
symbol. It is allowed by the best commentators, that the loss
of the Schechinah, that visible sign of the presence of the
• “Tif juu ITFKEXTMENHI emf, bt t» mt’ dv/yov fyb to* x#*«, km
TtWrraf ervpCcXa vtf* atint t urmtifum*, ov ir^tW a£r*V vnnetu Tvr wtfl
mmrrm ipimicm.” Vol. I. p. II, IS. Ed. fVending.
iigitized by Google
4
Deity, induced an early respect for solar light, as its supposed
substitute. Hence the origin of the worship paid to the sun
and the heavenly luminaries. The catastrophe of the flood ren-
ders the next supposition credible, and the recollection of the
state of bliss in Eden, and of the virtue attributed to its fruits,
would have supplied the last.
Next in order after these important topics, the dependance of
man upon his Creator, and the particular history of those who
had experienced his wrath or his mercy, were subjects too in-
teresting to be forgotten. The escape of a few from the general
destruction by water, those few the renewers of the human race,
the depositaries of early revelations, sciences and arts, was
deemed necessary to be recorded. Upon referring again to
natural objects, it may be conceived, that if the Elements were
adopted to commemorate the powers of the Deity, their physical
effects combined with those primary symbols, would also repre-
sent his dealings with mankind. Hence the Elements and their
properties, assumed in a secondary sense to record the number
of Males and Females preserved in the Flood, would perpetuate
both the memory of the renewers of the human race, and the
Great First Cause to whom their safety was to be ascribed. The
very symbols, therefore, which recorded the attributes of the
Deity, furnished the means also of commemorating the existence
of Founders and Benefactors. Hence when the former were
reverenced, the latter partook of die honours paid them, and a
very imperfect remedy was provided for this confusion, by the
creation of an inferior order of deities under the title of Heroes.
In proof of this we find, that in the fabulous history of JSgypt,
9
as reported by Diodorus, the same deified Elements were used
to' denote two different sets of objects. After enumerating the
first causes of Creation, according to the opinion of the .Egyp-
tians, namely, the Sun and Moon, operating by their eight
parts, which were five Elements and three Seasons ;
that author
descrilies the personification of the chief of these principles under
the titles of Osiris and Isis, and the Elements under those of
Jupiter, Hdphaestus, Ceres, Ocennus and Athene, which he
terms the principal deities. But some of these, he adds, were
only mortals deified ; and are accordingly included in the num-
ber of their eight Heroes, which were the Sun, Saturn, Hhea,
Jupiter, Juno, Heplimstus, Vesta and Hermes. Some of these,
though personified Elements, were reported to have l>een Kings
of .Egypt, where it nppears, that an occasional reference of the
same emblem to two distinct objects recorded by it, produced a
a very absurd confusion. To many well thinking persons the
examination of these intricate fables may apjrear useless and
unprofitable. But in proportion to the confusion apparent in
every early Pagan tradition, the clearness and consistency of
the Pentateuch become subject of admiration. Hie more evi-
dent also must it be, that the author of the Pentateuch did not
borrow from those traditions, and the greater the necessity for
his being divinely assisted.
It is remarkable, that in the enumeration of these Elements
by Diodorus, as acknowledged by the Egyptians, Spirit holds
the first place, equally reputed an Element, with Fire, Earth,
Water and Air. I apprehend that the adoration of Spirit, iden-
tified indeed with the Element Air or Wind, formerly prevailed
D
~Dig5hzed-by Google
6
throughout the greater part of Asia. The Divine Spirit brood-
ing over the chaotic fluid, is doubtless the occult meaning of
that figure worshipped in the East in a sitting posture, on the
Lotos, and termed Boudli. In what part of Asia this repre-
sentation first obtained, or at what time, I will not presume to
affirm. In India, certainly before the dispossession of the Abo-
rigines by the Brahmins, who superinduced their later rival
worship of the elements Earth, Water and Fire, which consti-
tute their celebrated Triad. The earlier worship I refer to, pre-
vailed at a remote period in Ceylon, of which Viscount Valentia
has presented a very curious tradition in the first volume of his
travels:—"Two only remained, the world of Brachma in the
highest region, and the world of Winds in tire lowest.” Vol. i,
p. 488. Appendix. Doubtless, with allusion to the Peninsula
of India northward, and the Island of Ceylon in the south,
and to the distinct worship prevailing in each of them. I leave
it to tire orientalist to consider, whether the Persian word
Baudh, denoting wind, may have any connection with the
Indian Deity llovdh, but the coincidence of that word with the
Phoenician Baau, B which was said to be the wife of the
wind scXsUi, is very striking, and the word ntn* has been well
explained by Bochart, to be Kul-pi-Jah (spiritus rnitu.s oris
DeiJ, or that wind which was the Spirit of the mouth of
God.
Tire common opinion that Budlr npon the Lotus, merely de-
notes a combination of fire acting upon water, I presume to re-
ject, trusting to this etymology of the Indian Idol, and I thence
infer, that a notion of Spirit must also be included. In this I
shall be supported by a reference to the opinions of other con-
temporary nations. The /Egyptians, more ingenious in their
devices than the Aborigines of India, expressed the Eternal
Spirit on the front of their temples, by wings extended across
the tympanum, by which they conveyed an idea of air or wind,
as the nearest sensible illustration of a spiritual object. The
pillars that supported the architrave, were composed of bundles
of reeds and other aquatic plants, to denote the primeval
waters over which that Spirit brooded: accordingly the Greeks,
who borrowed from the /Egyptians, gave the name of airk,
Eagle, to the tympanum of their temples, that bird being the
winged emblem of their supreme Jupiter: but I shall presently
have to observe, that the Deity had condescended to make his
presence known by a luminous appearance. If the pyramidal
figure therefore of Budh had reference to ilame, yet jointly con-
sidered with the name of that Idol, it would have implied the
luminous appearance of spirit. For this reason the /Egyptians
added a circular disk, as an emblem of the sun or light,* which
they inserted between the expauded wings above their sacred
porticos. The Phoenicians, a rude and early people, from a
want of proper means to express their ideas graphically, conse-
crated two obeliscal stones for the purpose above alluded to, and
they dedicated one of them to Fire, and the other to Spirit:
S6o fin \a.( mpi ti sou wm/tcm, says Eusebius, de Prsep. Evang.
p. 23, thus symbolising the Presence and the Essence of the
* This seems to be a proper explanation of the worth of Eusebius : “ msm
m) npHrit xsfsmm.
11
De Prap. Evang. p. 27.
8
Deity, which they could not separate ;• and such were probably
the Termini set up in Greece by the Pelasgi.f
The similarity of the conical heaps formerly respected in dif-
ferent parts of the world, to this pyramidal figure of Boudh,
may lead us to a new explanation of the worship of Hermes or
Mercury. He was variously termed, the leading God (iwfii*,
and v>ifiwi9f), tlie terminal Deity, the God of Speech and Elo-
quence, and Commerce among men, the winged Messenger of
Heaven. As the polished obelisk (Levis agyieus
)
was dedi-
cated to Apollo, so was the Cippus to Hermes; the boundary
Stone, the Btetulian or animated Stone, xiSc; the pensile
or rocking Stones, termed Zudi or living, by Pindar,} were, I
apprehend, equally sacred to him. They were designed for
nearly the same memorial as the Indian Boudh seated on the
Lotus, and probably the use of all of them arose from an an-
cient tradition imperfectly understood : That God was a Spirit,
that the Spirit of God acting upon the waters, effected the crea-
tion of the visible world, that that same Spirit governed the
world, and assigned to all men their limits, and divided their
speech. Since, to use the language of St Paul, Acts 17, v. 24,
• So the Psalmist, Ps. 139. 7. ** Whither shall I go from thy Spirit, or whi-
ther shall I flee from thy presence ?*'
+ Thus on a well known Colonial Coin of Tyre, two upright Stones ore repre-
sented, with nn inscription, terming them ambrosial or immortal. By the side of
one of them is a Vase of Fire, by the other a Tree, perhaps the symbol of Air, and
therefore sacred to Boudh or Mercury. Beneath llic whole is a Marine Shell the
Murex, the emblem of Water, and specifically of Tyre. By which is implied, that
the eternal and ever present Creating Spirit was the Deity originally acknowledged
by the more enlightened of the Tyrians.
| Ai&tio
t
yof (Va» Zwu. Pyth. od. 4. T. 371.
‘
Digitized by Google
9
26, "God that made the world and all things therein —hath-
made of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on all the
face of the earth, and hath determined the times before ap-
pointed, and the bounds of their habitation."
These divine honours then, paid to Terminal Stones, might
have been ns enrlv as the first generations after Peleg, in whose
time the earth was divided ;
the boundaries of nntions being
then set out by divine appointment, and enforced in the ease of
disoliedienee by a multiplication of languages.
Thus much respecting the first objects of Hieroglyphical re-
cords. The second, abstractedly considered, were preserved by
Astronomical allusions. It has been supposed that the She-
chinah. that luminous token of the presence of the Deity, was
withdrawn from men after the time of Noah. To his descendants,
the disappearance of the sun in the winter months would have
enforced a melancholy recollection of this loss, and the return of
that luminary in the spring would have been greeted as the
pledge of restoration to divine favour. Accordingly, various
solstitial rites were invented in different countries, to celebrate
the deration of the sun after his return from the winter portion
of the sphere. Hence the use of the olive bough in the Litanies
of the Greeks, if it be true what Porphyry asserts* of the upjter
and under surfaces of its leaves, alternately reflected according
to the change of the seasons. The wild olive was for this rea-
son said to have been brought by Hercules to the neighbour-
hood of Pisa, where the chariot races were instituted in honour
of the sun. But the approach to and communion with the
• De Antro Nympharum, c. 33. p. 29. Ed. Van Gocm, 1765.
E
Digitized by Google
10
I
Deity, so much longed for by the Pagans, were expressed in a
very evident manner by the Greeks, at their Olympic Gaines, in
u banquet which they termed Theoxenia, because a familiar in-
tercourse between the Gods and mortals was implied by it.*
Pindar has merely hinted, that the Olympick Games recom-
mended the scheme of the Metempsychosis, but in the later in-
stitution of the Circensiaa Games by Romulus, the doctrine
was very distinctly enforced. It is probable that a contempla-
tion of the different degrees of splendor in the heavenly bodies,
compared with the sun, might have led the Chaldean founders
of idolatry to expect a gradual approach to the fountain of
light, and to imagine a series of stages of existence, previous to
* wa(« to rent tmfut rki Sib*.
Scholiast, in Pindarura. Olymp. od. 3.
Similar Feasts at Rome were termed Leclittemia, from couches set in order, on
which the Gods were supposed, or were invited, to recline. Horace alludes to them,
Carm. lib. 1. od. 37.
nunc Saliaribus
Ornorc pulvinar Dcorum
* Ternpus erat dapibus, Sodalcs.
Hence, the common representation of a Banquet on Greek and Roman Sepulchral
Marbles, implies a final state of beatitude and rest, and communion with the Deity.*
The most solemn rite of the Christian Church is properly termed Communion, and
the Author and Finisher of the Christian Faith eminently asserted his Divinity in the
original institution of it. It is one of the many instances, in which the Christian
Dispensation appealed to the understandings and feelings of the Gentiles, and the
ready and vast influx of Pagan Converts, on the first promulgation of the Gospel,
is thereby accounted for. The solemn Supper here noticed, was acknowledged by
them as the spiritualising and perfecting a rite they were well acquainted with. It
offered them an intimate union with God, which they had in vain expected in their
Theoxenia and Lectistemia.
* A great deal may be seen on this subject, and upon others that wifi be mentioned in this
Essay, in the curious Tract of Windct dc VitA Eunctorum Statu, a Hebrsorum ct Grwcarum
oomparstM seatenuia. Ijond. 1677.
: ii~ ed by Google
11
a final admission to the Divine Presence. Nevertheless, the
limitation of such a series to the number seven, must be rather
attributed to ancient traditions preserved by them, than to par-
ticular speculations on the planetary system. The Creation in
seven days, and the supposed continuance of this earth as many
thousand years, the last thousand of which, it was reported,
would lie a Sabbatical Millenium, might have occasioned their
adapting the solar system to the scheme of their Metempsy-
chosis, and I am inclined to suspect, that a notion of this Sab-
batical rest may be traced in the ge'xS«» sigtrwsi* of Pindar, which
was declared to be the reward of Victors in the Grecian Games.
The doctrine of an ascent to a state of rest through seven pre-
vious stages, was exemplified by that tower at Babylon dedi-
cated to Jupiter Bel ns, in the temple described by Herodotus,
lib. 2,t which seems to huve furnished a model for the Pagodas
in several eastern countries, where the worship of Boudh pre-
vails. Thus, however, the presence of a beneficent Deity, the
Author of all Good, was hailed under the symbol of Light, but
of the Punisher of Evil, it wus dreaded under the emblem of
Fire. Such was the Brahminical Deity in his destroying capa-
city, and yet, as in wrath remembering mercy, the sane Sica
was entitled Regenerator us well as Destroyer.^
• Olymp. oil. 8, v. !).
+ The table, the couch and other furniture of this upper chamber, denoted beati-
tude and rest. See before note, p. 10. See also the account of the Tomb of Cyrus
and its contents, in Strains. V. 2, lib. 15, p. 1061. l'id t'usaub.
J So the Psalmist speaks of (he presence of the Deity to the wicked :
—“ Our God
shall route, ami shall not keep silence : a fire shall devour before him. Ps. 50, 3.
And elsewhere :
—“Thou turuest man to destruction ; and sayest, return, ye children
of men. Ps. 90, 3.
Digitized by Google
15
the personages with which they are sometimes represented in
connection, were also devised by him.
The information we collect from Diodorus Siculus, respecting
the eight parts of the two first creating principles of the /Egyp-
tians, may perhaps be further illustrated by the following ex-
tract from the celebrated boot of the Chinese, the I-king, as it
is cited in the very interesting Essay of Mr. Remusat, on the
language and literature of the Chinese* “The first principle
generated two examples, these two examples generated four
images, which four images generated eight lots” (or Kona).
Mr. Remusat expresses himself little satisfied with the various
explanations given of these Kona. The definition of them in
the I-kiug is condemned by him as of too abstract a nature,
and another delivered in the book tenned Toung-kao, is rejected
by him as too arbitrary. Confucius, he observes, considered
them to be symlmlical, and in general, he adds, a moral and
metaphysical 'sense has been sought in the Kona, whereas they
should only be view ed under a grammatical reference ;
since the
Chinese are in some sort agreed to consider them as the primi-
tive type of their written characters, pp. 7, 8.
To controvert the written opinions of the Chinese themselves,
and of Confucius, on such a subject, may be rather hazardous,
even to a sinologist of Mr. Remusat’s ability and application.
But it is far from improbable, that all these assertions may be
in the main correct, and no one contradict another. It is very
true, that in an authentic collection of Chinese coloured draw-
• Euai .ur U languc ct la LUUnUure Chino«s-pat J. P-.
A
^^8ro
16
ini's illustrative of the ancient history of China, the origin of
letters is shewn, by Fohi pencilling these trigrams or Koua,
disposed in nn octagonal diagram.* Hut to omit any discussion
on the first formation of the characters of this very ancient
people, as far beyond my reach, I will submit to my reader the
following names and significations, and the supposed position of
the Koua, as I have collected them from the Essay of Mr. tte-
nmsat :
—The first of them termed Kien or Heaven, is placed
by the Chinese in the southern region ; while Kouen or Earth
is referred by them to the north ; hi, denoting Fire, they place
in the east; Kan or Water in the west; Tmti or Heat in the
south-east ; Ken or Cold in the north-west ; Trhin or Dryness
is allotted to the north-east; and Siouen or Humidity to the
South-west quarter, pp. 74—78. Hence these lots appear to be
no more than the four Elements, and the properties of each of
them. Their influence on mankind seems to be acknowledged
in a moral and metaphysical sense, by the Chinese referring to
Heaven the dispensation of virtues, to earth of atfairs, to fire
felicities, to dryness directions, to humidity generations. Ibid.
p. 110.
In the accompanying Etching, from a piece of Porcelain in
my own possession, the Tehin, classed in pairs, represent the
Elements and their properties. I propose them as examples of
the ancient use of natural objects lor Hieroglvphicks, as well as
to shew their connection with the Koua; where the element
• This Collection, in three volumes, was brought from China by Mr. Van Braam,
on the return from hi# embassy. They are now in the splendid library of Mrs. Bliss,
of Kensington.
13
The following extract from a periodical work, the Athenaeum*
of Dr. Aikin, will lietter explain this contest, and the characters
of the coinlmtants.
"In the heirinning of the world,” reports the learned Editor,
on the authority of a correspondent from Chiiiu, “there lived
T.sin"-ifuas, monsters with men’R faces and fishes’ bodies, who
desolated the face of the waters, so that ships could not sail
:
Those eight persons who esca|ted their rapacity, by the charms
of music, which they invented, attracted the savages from the
seas, and killed them all. They are now Gods, and live in
Tishan. an island in the interior of China, very high, and
very large, from whence those Divinities can mount to the sky,
or, as they are very light, can live in the clouds.
“I. Hong-ehong-li, by the flirt of his fnn could blow you to
the end of the world, without killing you ; unless he pleased.
“ 2. Taat-cpia-la keeps eternal fire in his calabash ; he must
keep it in the inside, or he will bum up the world.
" 3. Chum-cu-lo plays on a small drum or Tom-tom.
“4. Li-toug-pan, first inventor of Swords; he carries a two-
edged one in his hand, with which he killed the Ttung-t/nas.
“ .> Ilo-sing-co, a virgin, who made an iron basket, w hich she
could enlarge or contract at pleasure: by the extreme beauty of
her person, the charms of her conversation, and the powers of
music, she attracted the Mnif-fmt, who came into the basket,
and were destroyed.
“ ti. Hong-chong-tsee invented a flute, the sound of which
brought lieantiful pheasants, and all other kinds of birds, from
the extremities of the earth.
• For June, 1808.
F
—Digitized by Google
17
water, as the scene of their action, is designed to record in a
general way the great event of a punishment inflicted, and the
repetition of a set of Elements' combined with their physical
effects, denotes more particularly, the powers of the Deity, and
his dealings with mankind ; while they also convey some idea
of the confusion that induced a deification of mere mortals in
an early age.
They are thus combined :
—Ho-sing-co and Lum-tsoi-wo,
Nos. 5 and 7, in the list of Dr. Aikin’s correspondent, are ex-
hibited, the one bearing fruit, the other scattering flowers, the
productions of Earth, of which I do not hesitate to term them
representatives. Of llong-chong-tsee and Chum-cu-lo, Nos. 6
and 3 in the same list, the former blows a flute, the latter bears
on his back a tom-tom, to denote pulsation, which together,
will not inaptly imply the element Wind. Respecting Taat-
qua-la, 2, the lame Vulcan of the Chinese resting on his crutch,
and discharging fire from his gourd, there can be no occasion
for mistake. He probably represents Lightning, and his com-
panion Thunder ; for that Tsou-qua-cow, No. 8, has also re-
ference to Fire, is certain from the classification of the figures
;
he is in the clouds, and as his clappers imply noise, a more ap-
propriate effect in nature could not be chosen to be personated
by him.
Of Nos. 1 and 4, I venture to surmise, that they imply Life
and Death. They certainly allude to Water, because the three
other Elements have been decyphered. For this a very natural
account might be suggested. The very general tradition that
all things were created from Water, might have induced the
G
Digitized by Google
18
Chiuere Mythologists to make the figure No. ], the President
of Life ; the destruction of all things by water at the time of
the deluge, may have as rationally induced them to refer de-
struction to the figure No. 4.* The sword is the evident symbol
of the latter. But it may be enquired, on what ground
the fan can be supposed to represent the former. For this,
Windet, in his very curious tract before cited, fornishes me
a very probable conjecture.} The “ .Myttica oannus Iacchi,"
was that winnowing fan, which separated the corn from the
chaff, by dispersing and bringing it back alternately, by which
process the chaff would be blown to a greater distance, and the
grains of com being heavier, would remain in the centre of the
thrashing floor. This was conceived according to the notions of
the .Egyptians and Greeks, as the probable vicissitude that
every created being underwent, an alternate state of life and
death, to which some may have doubted, whether they as-
signed any determinate period.} He adduces some other inge-
* Hence the Bacchus of the Greek* was the God of Humid Nature, the President
over Lite and Death, and himself subject both to generation and destruction. He
was also of two sexes, because both sexes were preserved among; the patriarchal
eight. + P. 29.
$ In the time of Pindar, we find the period to these vicissitudes actually defined.
Olyrap. od. 2 y. 123.
ocroi i'iriXfiafan if rp*4
iurrpti gu/rarrrf,
are matron ail***
“ But as many as had the fortitude to persist in keeping their souls blameless,
to the 'extent of three yicisritudc* above, anti three beneath the earth (in the invi-
sible state, in Hades), were then forwarded to the islands of the blessed, &c.” An
idea borrowed from the Jewish notion of a Sabbatical period of rest and' beatitude,
which doubtless, Pythagoras, who travelled to the east, learnt from the Hebrews,
19
nious references to tlie same effect, ami he notices a base ap-
plication of a passage in Scripture by the degenerate Rab-
binical Philosophers. “ Thou turned man to destruction, and
sayest, return, ye children of men.” Whereas the history
of their own nation would have furnished the true solution
of the passage. For how often by the judgments of the
Almighty upon them, was their state all but annihilated by in-
vasions and captivities, on the occasion of their repeated idola-
tries ? And a similar visitation on the great empires that have
successively risen and l»een destroyed, to make way for that
which is to Ice a lasting kingdom, has been a jcowerful illus-
tration in later days.
There are many passages indeed in Scripture, the force of
which is in part best to us, from our not fully comprehending
the vices of ancient nations, which had commerce with, and
furnished proselytes to, the Jews. Such, 1 presume, is the fol-
lowing, which Wimlet has noticed, containing a terrible warn-
ing to Christians, and equally alarming to the Gentiles of old,
whose false s|ceculutions it lashes. They are the words of John
Baptist—“ whose fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly
purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the gamer ; but he
will bum up the chaff with unquenchable fire.” Afalth. 3, 12.
Containing a true and complete refutation of the above erro-
neous supposition. According, however, to the Pagan notion,
and brought with him into Magna Gracia. 14 Sibi quam subsicham—-fcccrat,” says
A puIritis, apolog p. 457. Ed Delpll. and thence, doubtless, Pindar, and probably
all the Mystagogues in the Colleges at Agrigcutum, Capua and Kola, derived
their metempsychic notions.
Digitized by Google
20
Dr. Aikin’* correspondent observes, that the Tchin, No. 1, “by
the flirt of his fan could blow you to the end of the world,
without killing you ; unless he pleased.” These speculations
might be further extended, to the memorial of the Deluge pre-
served in the Incarnation of the Indian Vishnu, and to the
Arkite Rites illustrated by the great Bryant ; but I content my-
self with this instance, from a people whose religious monu-
ments are its yet but little understood.
I have now to shew, that the promises of the Deity respecting
man’s final reinstatement, were symbolised by earth and its
fruits. This will be best understood in the first instance, by the
reader's recalling to mind, that the Asgifn^, or Mother Eurth of
the Greeks, and the corresponding Ceres of the Homans, re-
presenting com and the fruits of the earth, were that Pagan
Goddess, in honour of whom mysteries were instituted at Eleusis,
in which were held out to the initiated an obscure promise of a
future state. But this matter must be taken up from a higher
source.
In the preceding division of my subject, I took occasion to
notice, that the eight Heroes of the Chinese mythology were
occasionally represented, invoking a superior personage. This
is no other than Tong-fong-sok, their God of Immortality,*
* This personage, in combination with other symbols, furnishes the following
]i teroglyphicks on Chinese Porcelain: —When on foot, with a bough on his shoulder
bearing three of these fruits, nod in company with a Female riding on the Fung
Hoang (a bird so termed by the Chinese), he denotes Eternity, and the Female
Spirit ; and these figures jointly, Eternal Spirit : which I Conjecture to be tbc two
examples produced by the First Principle, mentioned in the l-king. The Eternal
Spirit is otherwise expressed, by the compound symbol of Tong-fong*sok holding
this fruit, and riding on a stork as an emblem of Wind, or Spirit.
Digitized by Google
21
whose characteristic symbol is a fruit peculiar to China, which he
l>ears in one hand : either singly, or in a triple cluster. I ven-
ture to term this personage the Hercules of China, and to com-
pare him with a well-known bronze figure in the Towneley Col-
lection of Antiquities, now in our National Museum, of Hercules
holding the three Hesperian apples, while behind him, to shew
where he gathered them, appears a tree with a serpent entwined
round it. lint 1 have in my own possession an article perhaps
not less ancient than the Towneley Bronze, that is equally
illustrative of this subject. It is a Terra Cotta of that earliest
ware termed, perhaps not improperly, Carthaginian. It consists
of a cluster of three Pomegranates bound together by a serpent,
which is coloured with a black and purple varnish, aud the
scales faintly and delicately tooled. This valuable relick, pre-
sented to me by my very intelligent friend II. Tresham, Esq.
R. A. was from a tomb in Magna Graecia. The works of
D'Hanearville and others on vases, will furnish several interest-
ing compositions, which represent the gathering of such fruit in
the garden of the Iiesperides. In ull these cases, the fruit must
lie supposed to convey the gift of immortality, and iu this sense
it is presented on many religious works of Greek art.
The origin of Serpent worship may be here distinctly traced.
As the supposed guardian of the fruit of life, this reptile is
cherished and fed iu the pagodas of Hindustan to this day,* and
* A military friend, Major S. informed me, Hint tinring once retired |o rest under
the Portico of a Brahminical Temple, lie was disturber! by a Cobre capeIJa, and was
about to destroy it, but be dvsisted on the entreaty of the Brahmin. The latter offered
H
Digitized by Google
22
representations of this ceremony very frequently occur on Greek
and Roman marbles.* Minerva, who was also termed Hygia,
being the Goddess of Health as well as Wisdom, was accompa-
nied by the serpent, as the symbol both of life and knowledge^
and the staff of /Esculapius, the God of Medicine, or Preserver
of Life, was accordingly enwreathed with the serpent.
It is needless to enlarge on so well known a subject as the
Atlantic Islands, extolled by Plato, and almost every Pagan
Poet. In these were the Hesperian Gardens famed for their
fruits. These Islands of the Blessed (for they were so termed),
were reported to have been suddenly submerged $ in the sea.
—
The loss of Paradise is evidently implied by this story, which
gave rise to many others. Prom such materials, the Greeks de-
vised their fable of Atalanta, who stooping to pick up the three
to the serpent a compound of sugar and butler in a tazza. The Cobre capefta,
when fed, glided up the pillars of the portico, and again sheltered itself beneath lli«
cornice.
• See plate 28, No. 52, of the Terra Cottas in the British Museum, published by
Taylor Combe, Liq.
t See a description of the Collection of Ancient Marbles in the British Museum*
by Taylor Combe, Esq. part 1, plate 1. The Townclcy Bust of Minerva.
$ The Rev. Dr. S. Henley, in a very interesting note communicated by him to the
translator of Dr. Lowth’s Lectures,* vol. 1, p. 213, observes, that the place where
the wicked after death were supposed to be confined—from the destruction of the old
world by the deluge, the covering of the Asphaltic vale with the Dead Sea, &c.
was believed to be situated under the waters ;
whence he notices the expression rtn $
TtafTofo* ri< c&nrffir, Job, 41, 23—“ the Tarlarut of the Abyss." This accounts both
for the submersion above noticed, and for the popular (ientile notions respecting
future punishments, which the Philosophers privately disbelieved, while the chief of
them nevertheless acknowledged, they were referable to early traditions.
• Lecture* on lb* Surred Poetry of the Hebrews translated by G. Gregory, F, A. S.
:ed byrGoogle
golden apples, was thrown ont of the chase, and accordingly
resigned her virgin state. The hope of regaining this state of
bliss, and the divine promise that man should be eventually re-
instated, were fondly cherished by the Pagans, and recorded
though misrepresented* by numerous fables and devices.
Bat it is remarkable, that while the Hercules of Tyre and
Greece brought the fruit of life from the garden of the Hespe-
rides,t the Hercules of the Celts, drew crowds to him by the
charms of eloquence, instructing them in the use of letters ,
and
he was termed Ogrohis.t as conveying by these letters the mys-
terious traditions of ancient times. The coincidence of this
name with that of Ogma, who devised the Tree Alphabets,
of the Irish, is very remarkable. Respecting these a great
deal is said in that treasure of curious learning, the fifth
volume of the Collectanea of General Vallancey. He is there
termed Ogma, Ogam or Som, the last of which is expressed
in three Ogham Characters, with the following hierogly-
phick subjoined, which General Vallancey has compared
with the Segol of the Jews and Chaldeans, who reversed the
stop V and termed it Sacal, the bunch of Grapes ;§ but it
• That singular prediction of a deliverer in the person of Hercules, in the Prome-
theus of /Eachylus, is a very particular instance. Confident of this, Prometheus ex-
plain.. : —rt' Par i W, * v. 933. “ What should 1 fear, whom fate
forbids to die ?**
* ijT'ffa tojvthm in Onomacritus, may perhaps be better rendered Eloquent
Henprrides, than mect-voiccd.
$ Sec the Dissertatioua of Schmidt and the Ret. Stephen \Y eston, in the Archeo-
logiu, on the Hereales Qgmius of Lucian.
S Collectanea, vol. 5, p. 86.
24
ltifty lx* compared with the Symbol of the Chinese, Greek and
Tyrian Hercules. General Vallancey has remarked, that the
Chinese word Si, a tree, is the root of many others of learned
import, and he has also derived nearly the whole of the
names of the Hebrew Letters from Trees.
It is here that I may venture to submit an etching from an
extremely curious Chinese Tazza, formerly in the cabinet of
Mr. Newton,* that exhibits the Trigrams of Folii, impressed
on the very fruit to which are ascribed such peculiar virtues.
Within the dish the characters are expressed by the original
cyphers: without, they are more picturesquely displayed on
triple clusters of the fruit. The former are the primitive
characters of the Chinese, the latter may l>e considered as
the first approach to a cursive churacter-f Hence, that which
in the hand of the Idol Tong-fong-sok is the Fruit of Immor-
tality, on the Tazza of Mr. Newton, is the Fruit of Knowledge.
It is triple, with reference to the three male branches from
which the earth was re-peopled, and repeated eight times
with a different trigram, with reference to the eight, who
were altogether the depositaries of Antediluvian learning and
traditions. All these memorials of the regret and hope of the
early Fagans, shew a deep sense of their loss of communion
with the Deity, as enjoyed in Paradise, and of the bodily
* The wane who bequeathed his property to the I.itcrary Fund.
+ The circular device in the centre of the Tazza is the Fung-llonng, or Bird of
Paradise, coiled up in that form. It is, I believe, the Chinese symbol of Wind or
the Primcevol Spirit.
I
Digitized by Google
decay and debasement Of intellect that resulted from the Fall.
They explain also what the I'oet expected, when he hailed
the advent of a Restorer of things, and a new paradisiacal state
—"redetmt Saturnia regno.”
The Gentiles who had lost the genuine account of the Fall,
supplied an imperfect story. Dr. Kennicot has shewn, that one
Tree only standing in Eden was forbidden, and that, not en-
dowed with any particular virtue. That the term “ Trees of
Life," implied merely “ good for food,” and that with regard
to the particular tree forbidden, the knowledge derived, and the
life lost, resulted from the transgression, and not from the
fruit.
While I presume to recommend the beautiful dissertation of
Dr. Kennicot to all who desire to understand the first chapters
of Holy Writ; I also trust, that these traditions and conceits
of the early Pagans may not be deemed unimportant, especially
by those who feel interested in the calling in of the Gentiles.
They are at present fast bound by prejudices, which are only
strong, because the grounds of them have been hitherto un-
explained. But a knowledge of the causes of these errors,
and a clue given to the path which a considerable part of
mankind have trodden, in their departure from the worship
of the true God, may be one secondary mean of clearing their
sight, and enlarging their understandings, and of teaching
them to retrace their steps. Since most of their traditions,
allegories, and symbols, are but mistaken memoranda of pro-
2G
mises long ago made, of the actual performance of which
in these later times, it is the devout object of our Missionaries
to assure them.
FINIS.
ERRATUM.
Tage 10, line 7, dele—“//y Romulus.'*
fcTtrcKsoff, match mt, a*d STtvtxsoy, ra.ixTF.ns, xouwjcm.
>
Digitized by (Jtaegle
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
4
0
Digitized by Googk
Digitized by Googl
