{"name":"Life Of Joanna Southcott 1495","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1814__fairburn___life_of_joanna_southcott____2nd_ed.pdf","mytitle":"Life Of Joanna Southcott","mylang":"de"}
L IF E
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
T B 1
PROPHETESS
Containing an Impartial Account of her wonderful and
astonishing Writings, her
MIRACULOUS CONCEPTION,
T B t C O M IN G Of
S H I L O H ,
A
N
D or
The numerous Presents sent to her Preparatory to
HER ACCOUCHEMENT,
PARTICULARLY PH*
Superb Crib !!
M ade by M r. SE D D O N , Aidersgate-Street, which, with
its Ornaments, Decorations, Bedding, Isc. cost up­
wards o f Two H undred P ounds !!!
SECOND EDITION.
L O N D O N :
PRINTED and PUBLISHED by JOHN FAIRBURN,
St, Broadway, Ludgate-IIill.
r " .
i
/ / ¥’
J
Digitized by Google
L I F E
or
%
Joanna Southcott.
TOANNA SOUTHCOTT was born at Getti-
sham, a small village in Devonshire, in the month
of April 17^0, and was baptized on the 6th of
June following; as appears by the register of
Baptisms at the parish-church of St. Mary Ottery, -
in Devonshire. She was the daughter of William
and Hannah Southcott; her father was in the
fanning line, and both her parents were.professed
members of the Established Church. Tradition
is silent as to the circumstance of any “ signs”
having attended the introduction of such an ex­
traordinary personage into our world; but the
Spirit has since informed her that the Angels
rejoiced at her birth;” while one of her Sealed
Doctors has been heard to declare, that-the Comet
of 1811 was similar to the star which denoted the
birth-place of Christ, and also that it was attend­
ed by another Comet, although of less magnitude,
being both together meant to indicate the perfect
union that subsisted between that divine person
and the favoured prophetess.
She speaks of herself as having been in charac­
ter ‘‘ the simplest of all her father’s house,” and,
from her early age, having “ the fear of the Lord
B
Digitized by Google
deeply impressed on her mind and heai
then delighted in perusing the Scrip
was particularly affected by the acco
sufferings of Christ, feeling her “ hear
indignation against his accusers,” and
that her growth in grace bore isome pr
her advancing in years.
Considering the religious bias of
even in youth, it is less surprising to 1
different to those objects \yhich nsu
the affections of females. This can al
Joanna’s treatment of her chief adm
Bishop, who in vain endeavoured to m
ble impression on her heart. Alfhougl
reciprocally in love, and she herself h;
that love, yet, such was the disposi
mind, she constantly' rejected him, at
have preferred the privations.of eelil
ponsolatioos of matrimony. There is j
a|r of eccentricity ip tbi$. Possibly s
M
’ithout some presentiment of her fi
and thus she who expected, to bee
Lamb’s Bride,” being destined “ to bri*
head and the Manhood to a perfec
might justly spurn at the proffer of en
were but mortal.
Joanna opened her commission in
declared herself to be tire woman sp
the Revelations, that is, “ the Bride,
wife, and the Woman cloathed with the
was at Exeter, her friends thought shi
out of her mind; her profession mac
noise in the city, the people in g
against her, and she was much perse
wrote to the Dignitaries of the Cat
cerning her Mission, but they would h
to say toiler. From 1792 to 1801, J
several-efforts to get her Mission sat
i
■ 4
Digitized by Google
respectable characters, but without success, In
' the 9th page of the first book, Strapge Effects of
Faith, we read of six men, that Joanna was to
have together to try their judgement of her.
The Rev. Mr. Pomeroy was likewise applied to,
who, for a considerable time, sanctioned ner.
Mission.
In 1801, Joanna printed the five first parts of
her book, called “ The Strange Effects of Paith,”
this brought down to Exeter, in .the Christmas of
that year, five gentlemen, from different parts of
the kingdom, to euquire into the truth of her
• Mission, 'three of those gentlemen were clergy­
men ; they staid at Exeter seven days, and then
returned perfectly satisfied, that the visitation
was of God. .
On the 12th of January, 1803, those six gen-
■tlemen assembled With a great many thdfe; at a
house in PaddingtOh, In ordei* tb take the matter
a second time into ctihSidefatioh. This meeting
(which is called Joanna’s second Trial,) was pre­
viously advertised hi the newspapers, and those
that disapproved df Joantid as a messenger .from
God, were desired to attend and produce their
reasons. However, no one attended but those
that were believers in the Mission. This being
the case, those that were present proceeded to
carry on the trial, though no opposer Were there.
Accordingly, twelve were selected from the com­
pany to act as judges, and twelve more to act as
a jury.
In December 1804, another meeting was con­
vened, being previously advertised like the others,
and every method taken to excite those who were
against the cause to attend the meeting ; this
was called the Third Trial of Joanna Southcott
The Trial lasted seven days. The Court consist­
ed of 12 Judges,' 12 Jurymen, and 24 Elders.
5
Digitized by C a O o o L e
Ia the Book called “ The Trial” you rep
80th page, as follows,—“ When the gentl
tered'the room, the clergy entering first
her tongue tied, and was not able to spet
as her friends came in, her confusion ii
and, in her own mind, she thought sh<
have fainted away; but, to her great :
ment, when all had entered, though sfa
it'were dying before, she was as a g
freshed with new wine; without pain,
or weakness: she stood up, and felt the
the Lord enter within her; to call them
remembrance of the fall: and, when'
them of the promise made to the wo
bruise the serpent’s head, every man in t
held up hit hand, to join with her in clai
promite.
The following is extracted from the r
the Court after the whole business of
was gone through and completed
Neckinger-House, Bermondsey, near
December 1], 1804.
“ We, whose names are hereunto su
being invited, by divine command, f
days, to the examination of Joanna So
prophecies, do individually and volunta
by our separate signatures, our firm bel
her prophecies and other spiritual con
tions emanate wholly and entirely from
of the living Lord.” Book of the Ti
133. This is also confirmed by the fift
tion, page 79, thus—“ From the examin
Joanna’s writings, it doth appear to us
is visited by the Spirit of the livin
Amongst the names subscribed, page
137, are the names of several of the cler;
— digitized by Google
Joanna has visited in her missionary capacity,
Bristol, Leeds, Old Swinford, Stockport, &c. &c.
At Old Swinford she has many adherents; and
at Leeds her followers are very numerous.
Joanna has for some years been stationary in
London, living with an amiable lady, who (much'
to her praise) disposes of her income, in what she
esteems the service of God. Joanna’s cause in
London, has been, for a considerable time, in a
flourishing state. She has a chapel in Duke-
street, St. George’s-fiields, near the Obelisk, where'
they have preaching every Sunday, and where
the Liturgy of the Church of England is also
read. The service of the chapel is performed by
Mr. Tozer. They have a choir of singers, and
the hymns they sing, were composed from the
writings of their patroness. They administer in
their chapel the Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper,
the first Sunday.in every month, and profess
themselves members of the Church of England.
She has two other chapels, one at Greenwich and
another at Twickenham.
It was customary with the prophetess, during
the early part of her career, to commit her su-
E
ernaturat communications to paper with her own
and; but, latterly, she has a secretary in atten- -
dance on her. When the Spirit is about to im­
part some communication, Joanna feels an agi­
tation within; then the Prophetess, her secretary,
and the witness, range themselves in one group.
After this, the Spirit begins to speak, addressing
himself not to the witness, nor the secretary,
. bnt to Joanna within : so that our Prophetess has
simply to sit down and talk to herself! This she
actually does, when the secretary, another fe­
male, takes down what he says, and then the
witness, likewise feminine, signs it. Joanna will
sometimes dictate a line only, sometimes a sen-
' 7
Digitized by C n O O Q l e
tfence, stopping till it is perfectly c
writing.
Joanna assumes to usher in th<
and to seal the faithful for the enji
to the amount of one hundred ar
thousand; also to chain down Sata
sand years, and, Having thus ham
good fruit of the tree of knowlegi
stated her fallen sex, to terminate the
dertaking of man’s redemption. T1
performed in the following manner:
of paper is provided, and on it is \
words:—
The Sealed of the Lord—the Lie
Man's Redemption,.—To inherit the l
—To.be made Heirs of God and Joint
Jesus Christ. JO ANNA SOt>
Each of those seals are signed by .
are then folded up, and the impressio
seal made on tne outside in wax.
they are sent to different persons c
by Joanna to dispense the same. W
son is to be sealed, he writes his nan
provided for that pbrpose : this is c
for Satan’s destruction, as he thereby
wish, that Satan may soon be desl
is, banished from the earth. Whei
signed, the person in office, seals u
writes the person’s name on it that i
the words, not to be broke opei
delivers it into his hands, and the pc
sealed. The impression that Joanna n
with a seal that she found in sweepii
which she was about to leave in t
took it up, and threw it carelessly i
her box: ami when she was ord<
Spirit, to seal up the people, and ha
8
Digitized by
9
for the purpose, the Spirit told her, in th£ Devon*
shire language, she would find one in the skivet
of her box; so she opened the box, and found
the seal above mentioned, and on looking at it,
found engraved on it I. C. with two stars, the
explanation of which, she says, was given her by
the Spirit, that is, I. stands for Jesus and Joanna,
the C. for Christ, and the two stars, for thp
Morning and Evening Stars, Jesus being the
Morning, and Joanna the Evening, Star.
The orjgin of sealing, according to Joanna,
was this: being told by the Spirit of the dread­
ful judgments that was coming on the earth, and
being much concerned for those that must fall
a prey to the vengeance of Heaven, she was or­
dered to seal the people up, and unknowingly and
unconditionally to seal the King, &c.
The Spirit calls upon Joanna, and after having
quoted the words of St. John, “ Therefore doth
my father love me, because I lay down my life
that I might take it again.”
“ But now can I take it again without coming
in spirit, as a father to take it in a son. Know
as a son I came at first, but as a bridegroom I
said I should come at last; then know as a king
brings in his heir to his crown, by the bride, so
shall I bring in my heir to my kingdom that I
died to redeem. And now let the Jews awake as
men out of sleep, and let them see their prophets
clear, and let them see their psalms clear, then
they will see, I must first come to have my ene­
mies as spoken in the psalms, and after that to
ascend on high to receive gifts for men; yea,
even for the rebellious Jews, that tjie Lord God
might dwell among them. But how is the Lord
JOANNA’S PREGNANCY.
God to dwell amongst them if I do i
son by the same power, I came amc
And to prove my power, that it is of C
of man, it must be made known ui
whomsoever that read this book of th
man hath been in thy presence, of pu
the room where I have confined thee, si
I ordered thy confinement, which time <
11, 1813. And thou must let it be ki
world that thou cans’t say with Agur,
three things which are too wonderful
four which I know not.’”
After recording this address of the
Southcott proceeds:—
“ And this I can take a Solemn oat
ver had knowledge of man in my life,
the words of the Spirit are fulfilled
year to have a son, it is by the power '
and not of man ; and this sign is set t
truth of the Gospel, or to prove that
is not true. For this I am answered,
tation of the Lord does not produce
year, then Jesus Christ was not the :
born in the manner spoken by the Vi:
but if I have a.son this year, then it
ner our Saviour was born.”—“ Let th<
thy age, and the manner I have cc
from any man coming in thy prese
prevent men’s saying a man might c<
men’s apparel, I have also forbidden
male friends to come into thy presence
“ On the 14th of October, 181S;
dered to sit up all night in a room
which I did. Many extraordinary
revealed to me, why C hrist took r
upon him, and what he suffered for
that I should* keep that night in ev
membrance, and not forget the g
10'
__ Digitized by
blessings I ehjoyed. About twelve o’clock 1
looked at the candle; there appeared something
like a large bowl behind it, with a point toward*
the candle; the candle was flaming very bright
and there .appeared a ring as.red as scarlet, circled
round the middle of the flame; immediately
there appeared a hand as white as snow, which
Came out between the bowl and the candle, and'
pointed towards me: 1 trembled to see it, but
was answered—“ Fear not : it is I.” I was
then ordered to put on my glasses, and the hand
appeared the second time, more brilliant than
before; but then the flame of the candle seemed
parted in two, and looked in a different manner
than the first, but burnt very bright. The hand
was pointed towards me the second time, as white
as snow, and a red cuff was upon the wrist.”
Joanna states, in her Fifth Book of Wonders,
as follows
“ I-have felt life increasing more and more, from
the sixteenth day of May to this d a y b u t never
having had a child, in my life, I leave it to the
judgment of mothers of children who attend me,
who give their decided opinion, that it is perfect­
ly like a woman that is pregnant. Then now, I
say, it remains to be proved whether my feelings
and their judgment be right or wrong; whether
it is a child or not; which a few months must
decide: or the grave must decide for me; for I
could not live to the end of this year, with the
increasing growth I have felt within so short a
space, without a deliverance.
“ I have assigned my reasons why I believed,
and had faith to publish to the world that such
an event would take place; and 1 am truly con­
vinced that wondrous events must take place to
fulfil the Scriptures, before men can be brought
to the knowledge of the Lord, as spoken by the
c
11
Digitized by Google
prophets, or the fulfilment of the Go
complished. But, however, men have i
folly and faith in believing what I have
yet I plainly see that I should be mo
more, had 1 concealed it from the wc
present time; for then there would t
the world to mock as to my being a
and such an event not to be foretold,
known, that men might believe.”
In the Third and Fourth Books ot
Joanna Southcott announced to the >
she should have a Son this year, in
fifth year of her age, by the power oi
High.
“ Whatever mockery the announcing
event may cause amongst mankind, <
wonderful it may appear, there is the
factory evidence that it will be realis
proof is established upon the testim<
three women, being mothers of chil
have all along attended her; and upo
amination by two medical gentlemen,
symptoms which have taken place
Southcott, from the l?th of March I
of May, whose decided opinion thereoi
such symptoms were in a young woman,
be pregnant of a living child.”
The following vision is related,
Townley, in a letter to the Rev. T.
published in the pamphlet entitled “ I
Communications of Joanna Southcott.”
evening, July the 2d, 1804, Joanni
compose herself, after an hard contes
devil, when, “ at last, she fell as!
whether awake or asleep,” continues M
ley, “ she does not know, but she
she was quite awake when she felt tfa
the Lord upon her, but in that hea
12
■
--------------Digitized,by
beautiful manner that she felt joy unspeakable
and full of glory. She felt herself laying as it
were in Heaven, in the hands of the Lord, and
W
as afraid to move, feariug she should remove
bis .heavenly hand, which she felt as perfect as
ever woman felt the hand of her husband!”
“ In this happy manner,” affirms Joanna, “ I fell
asleep; and in my sleep I was surprised with see­
ing a most beautiful and heavenly figure, that
arose from the hed, between Townley and me.
He arose, and turned himself backwards towards
the feet of the bed, and his head almost reached
the tester of the bed; but his face was towards
me, which appeared with beauty and majesty,
but pale as death. His hair was a flaxen colour,
all in disorder around his face. His face was
covered with strong perspiration; and his locks
Were wet like the dew of night, as though they
had been taken out of a river. The collar of his
shirt appeared unbuttoned, and the skin of his
bosom appeared white as.the driven snow. Such
was the beauty of the heavenly figure that ap­
peared before me in a disordered state ; but the
robe ho had on was like a surplice, down to his
knees. He put out one.of his legs to me, that
was perfectly like mine, no -larger; but with
purple spots at the ton, as mine are with beating
myself, which Townley, Underwood, and Tay­
lor, are witnesses of. Methought, in my dream,
HE got himself into that perspiration by being
pressed fo sleep between Townley and me. I said
to him, ‘ Are you my dear dying Saviour, that is
to caine to destroy all the works of the devil ?’
He answered me, ( Yes!’ I thought I called
Underwood, and waked Townley; to look at him,
which they did with wonder ana amaze. I then
thoughtI would go out ofmy bed,and fall down on
my knees beforehim, to return him thanks for his
mercy and goodness: but, assoonas the
entered my head, he disappeared, and a
peared in his stead, which gave mepain t<
gone. But the woman told me many
things that were coming upon the
what was coming upon the devil; yel
at the loss of my dear Redeemer, foi
beauty in the woman, and, though t
would reason strong with me, her rea
not like. In this confusion I awoke,
the bell tolling for the dead, and the d
ing at the same time; which I re>
Townley.”
T H E P R O P H E C I E S
S S N T TO T B S
PRINCE REGENT, the BISHOI
In the 5th Book of Wonders Joanna
was ordered, by the Spirit, to send the l
my Portrait, to the Prince Regent, to
Bishops of Canterbury and York,
Worcester, Duke of Gloucester, Lor
nor, Lord Ellenborough, and the Re
London. I have likewise sent it to thi
Kent, the Bishop of London, and the
Salisbury, And this has been ordered I
to prevent any imposition being practi:
in my name by others, or, if I am
wrong spirit myself, it will be proved
and that no imposition may be practisec
Jews, when I know, without a dou
am with child. I am ordered to put
print, all the names above mentioned, ti
sent the book and likeness to, that tin
abroad, as well as those in England, i
that no deceit was practised upon them
the heads and rulers of the nation v
acquainted with it before it took place,’
14
___ _ Digitized by Google
£* "
15
THE
COMING OF SHILOH.
In the Third Book of Wonders is announced
u the come of Shiloh, with a call to the He­
brews.” The Spirit says, p. 4. “ This year, in
the 65th year of thy age, thou shalt have a Son
by the power of the Most High, which if they
receive as their Prophet, Priest, and King, then
I will restore them to their own land, and cast
out the heathens for their sakes, as I cast out
them when they cast out me, by rejecting me as
their Saviour, Prince, and King, for which I
said I was born, but not at that time to establish
my kingdom.” In consequence of this announce­
ment, the followers of J oanna SouTHCOTT,-in
town and country, are making all sorts of neces­
sary preparations. It is certainly true, that she
has literally been overwhelmed with presents.—
Laced caps, embroidered bibs, and worked robes,
a mohair mantle, which cost £ 150,—splendid
silver pap-spoons and caudle-cups (one shaped
like a dove; have been poured in upon her, tilt
she has at length determined to receive no more
of such things. To complete the desired appa­
ratus, a magnificent Crib has just been finished '
by one of our first upholsterers, and sent to
her residence, of which a friend has favoured us
with the following particulars :—
THE MANGER
A
N
D
C R I B .
A description of the Crib, made by Mr.
Seddon, of Aldersgate-Street, according to the
Digitized by C a O O Q l e
order of some gentlemen, who are n
the Church established by J oanna So
for the New Messiah, with whom tli
she is now pregnant:—• .
This Crib, which is made of a
square, is of the usual size of modern I
frame is made With satin-wood, richly
ed with gold; the sides and ends filled
ticerwork gilt The body of the Cr
they call the Man oea, is richly lined
satin, drawn together so as to give it 1
ance of fluted-work. , The pillars on
stands are taper, with ribbons of gold
round them. The head cloth is of I
with a celestial crown of gold embroider1
and underneath this appears the word
in Hebrew characters, richly drawn, at
ed in gold spangles. Over the head j
Crib appears an elegant canopy of I
lined with the finest white muslin, \vhi<
together to a point, and fastened unde
within side, the canopy, by a rose of
The outer point of the canopy is fini
the figure of a Hove of gold, resting <
white ball, and bearing a branch of o
mouth. Around the outer rim of the
this inscription, in letters of gold
will offering by Faith to the promised £
curtains are trimmed with narrow gold
draperies arp bine satin edged with g<
*6
Digitized by Google
ir
and looped up with gold line and gold tassels.
The inner curtains are of fine white muslin.
The above is a description of what they call
the Manger,—besides which they have a Crib, (or •
Cot,) which fits within the former, and hangs upon
swivels, that a proper motion itoay be given to
it whenever the young Prince may require
rocking.
The Crib itself is made with satin wood, fit­
ted in with the most beautiful cane-work, from
which passes a cord of gold to a pedal, which is
designed to rock the cradle whenever this may
be proper for the infant, and to prevent the neces­
sity of leaning over the manger, which inight in­
commode the supernatural babe.
The bed is of the finest eider-down, in a
white covering; the coverlet is of the richest
white satin, with a medallion in the centre, bear­
ing the figures of a Lamb lying down with the
Lion. The Lamb is worked in silver—the Lion
in gold. These are surmounted by a Tree of
Life worked in gold also. The sheets for the bed
are made of the best cambric, edged with ex­
pensive lace.
The above superb Crib, with its ornaments,
decorations, bedding, &c. cost upwards of Two
Hundred Pounds! !!
Digitized by
18
LETTERS
AND
ADVERTI SEMENTS.
The following letter was sjnt in the year 1799/
to a very dignified Clergyman, by Joanna South-
cott
Right Rev. Sir, Exeter*
I trust, from the amiable, worthy, and
good, character I hear of your Lordship, you
will pardon the liberty I am going to take, in
sending you the following lines; the weightiest
subject that ever entered tne human brain—such
an instance has never happened to any human
being since earth’s foundation was placed before;
the deepest inspired penman, the most learned
divine, nor the deepest philosopher that ever
wrote, ever had such thoughts of divinity or
philosophy, as have beeft revealed to me by the
Spirit of Revelation ; and what Spirit that is,
must be judged by men.—Will your Lordship be
astonished, when I tell your Lordship, in 1792
I was foretold all that was coming on the earth?
Perfectly as I was foretold, all has happened in
every nation; but the end is not yet—When the
truth of my writings began to-come, I was en­
couraged strongly in faith, that has been impos­
sible for* man to destroy, although their argu-
Digitized by.Google
' taents have often shaken my faith, -by telling me
it came from the devil; but the answers given
me to their words, and the wondrous manner in
which the Bible is explained, truly convinced me
theirjudgment was wrong? and, as throwing oil
into the fire makes the flames burn the greater,
the Very way men went' to chill my faith, con­
firms the truth of the Bible and the truth of my
writings, as being foretold how every man I was
ordered to write to would act And who can
tell the heart and thoughts of man, but God
alone ?
Now, my Lord, will you be astonished when
I tell you, the end of all things is at hand, and
the powers of darkness must be destroyed from
the face of the earth, by that weak hand that he
first betrayed ? Here your Lordship may be lost
in wonder, how Satan shall fall by a woman’s
hand. Mysterious as it may appear, yet very
clearly it is explained to me * ” '
made the same promise to me, as Herod did to
the damsel; and I was ordered to ask in writing
—and my petition and request was, If I had
found favour in the sight of the Lord, that Satan
might be cut off from the face of the earth, as
John the Baptist was. I was answered, the Lord
will grant my petition, and give me my request;
and I. should seal it up with three seals, and
carry it with me to the altar, when I received the
sacrament—I did ; and was then answered, “ what
I have spoken by my Spirit, sealed with my seal,
I will now seal with my blood.”*
—
But it is said
to me,
obedience to the commands
“ It is roan roust raise thy hand
And tell thee to grow wise*
Like Herod’s damsel to go on,
Then all shall gain the prize
D
Digitized by G o o g l e
When men begin as s^e jid then
And Hfce Herodias burn,
To wound Jhe foe, as the did dp,
1wJl Ifte Heron) comp/'
The mpn strengthened the wonppn’s frapd by
the fail, apd fee strengths her hppd to
bring |t bacjc. What Qpd deigned pt first, he
Will accomplish at last, jit jspot pJJ the power? .
Pf hell cpn ffpftrpte tfoe dC#ig«S npr purpose? of
the Most High. The Rprd wade ,t]t>
e woman to
coyaplete the happing pf map, apd by her it
must be done. For as the sun riseth in thy hp-
fizpp, and shipeth over the lace pf the earth, pud
then ^ctteth ip darV«ess> and riseth agpip. ip thp
Mfl?e place; apd- 4i#st returns tP id«wt; apd wave
retufps tp wave with ebbiflg ypd Rowing; yet aU
Centre ip the same plan/e^so p?pst ?pap cep*!* at
last, ps God placed hip? pt br§t, ip perfect hap*
pipess; an(l by the woman it pippt he completed.
£bfist died for map’s ptoptp?ept» end rpse again
foe pur jpstificatipp. Therefore now give *pr» Q
heavens! and be astpnishpd, P earth! the Lord
hath p controversy with his people;; and tbf
Saipts npisi jpdge the paf.th, Tppt day of judg-
mept puist tahJe place, .whey fny writipgs arp
proved; such writings as pever werf before since
earth’s foundation stood*
Will your Lordship fparyejif J tell ypp, it is
p sign tp me, why the Lord hath done all things;
1 have written tp the Rev* r-r.r the Rev.
----------and the Rev, r—-— ; hpt I an?
told, the Lord wijl never permit my writings *9
be proved, till 1 had written jto you. If your
Lordship will give me liberty, I will wait on yop,
to tell what grounds I have for this faith.
From your dutiful aad humble Servant,
JOANNA ISOUTHCOTT.
$0
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
LETTER TO THE NATION,
Written hy Joanna Southcott, which appeared in
the 'times Paper, Oct. 28, 1813.
f, J oaS
tn'a Southcott, have been more than
twelve years publicly warning the riatioh of what
fftd Lbrd hatn revealed urit6 me he wilj do upon'
thd e#ith; and the events have been daily fulfilling
Abroad and at home, which causes some to believe
the yisitation to 6e from the Lord; while others,
With the most infamous abuse and falsehood, have
ptlblidy declared* rrie fo be an Impostor; and
Cfhers, with the same ignorance and follvy say '
that my Writings are from the £)evif, fullor blas­
phemy, and Wdndered that tlie‘ bishops should
nave suffered me to go on in this manner. I have
borne the riitfckery and abuse, of meni y but how
let all their Wbtider Cease; for t shall’return to
fnock them, aS they have mbclced1hie, and ptovd
it is the devil, in the form of men, from whence
all this malice and persecution' proceed.
And h6W f shall say with David, fl If I have
' been vile, I Wilt still be vi l er ar i d if f have
been bold, I Wilt be bolder.—To my other Pro­
phecies I have added two books, lately publish- '
ed,, intituled, “ Book of Wonders j” and five
more will appear hereafter, which I defy all the
Bishops in England, the Members of Parliament,
ahd all the Judges in the land, with all the
judgment they can form together, to be able to
prOVe these two Books of Wonders, with the
other Prophecies, were ever brought round by
the wisdbm And knowledge of the Devil, or by
the wisdom and knowledge of an Impostor.
Let the Bishops come forward with the Rev.
Mi. Pam£r6y, and I Will soon convince them
that I CCuld as sCon make the world, aS I could
Digitized by
make my writings, and bring them round in the
manner they have been brought round to be ful­
filled. I am not so wise as tne world makes me;
therefore, I shall give unto the Lord the honour
and glory that is due unto his name: and those
that say they are from thp Devil, I shall turn
their blasphemy upon their own heads; because
it is blasphemy to say, that such wisdom, know­
ledge, and power, can be in the Devil. And I
was answered this morning, that if men went on
in this way, and the Bishops did not awaken, to
prove the calling is from on high, to stop this
blasphemy in men, that awful judgments should
now come on, upon them and upon the nation :
for these are the words said unto me -
I will laugh at their calamity; I will mock
when their fear cometh : when your fear cometh
as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a
whirlwind; when distress and anguish come upon
you; then shall they call upon me, but I will
not answer; they shall seek me early, but they
shall not find me: for I hive looked and there
is none to help ; and I wondered that there was
none to uphold; therefore mine own arm brought
salvation unto me ; and my fury upheld me ; and
I will tread down the people in mine anger, and
make them drunk in my fury ; I will bring down
their strength to the earth.”
. This is the voice of the Lord unto me, from the
scripture Prophecies. <
— “ The watchmen are
blind ; they are all ignorant; they are all dumb
dogs that cannot bark, sleeping, layiqg down to
slumber.”—But this is the answer of the Lord to
me,—“ They shall be visited of the Lord of hosts
with thunder and with earthquake, and great
noise, with storms and tempests, and the flame
pf devouring fire. Stay yourselves and wonder,-
pry ye out? and cry, they are drunken, but not
*2
Digitized by
yGoogle
with wine; they are staggered, ,but not with
strong' drink. The' Lord shall, go forth as a
mighty man; he shall stir up jealousy as a man
of war; he shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail
against his enemies.—I have long time holden
my peace; I have been still, and refrained my­
self; now will I cry like a travailing woman: I
will destroy and devour at once.”
Here are the threatenings, that I am now ordered
to bring out to the Nation, of the Scriptures that
the Lord will fulfil, if men now carelessly sleep,
after this warning ; but if they awake as men
out of sleep, and obey the call; then they may
look to the Promises in the following chapters:
Isaiah 1—8, 9, chapter xlvi. chapter lxv. aifd
chapter lxvi.
This I am ordered to put in the public papers;
and if I have no one to come forward to plead
my cause for me, the Lord is working a way for
me to plead it myself, and shame all that*shamed
me, and confound all that confounded me.
Now as Rowland Hill called my friends three-
and-twenty mad fools, for believing that my Visi­
tation was from the Lord; let him bring forward
three-and-twenty mad fools to prove these Two
Books, which 1 have lately published, with my
other Prophecies, were ever brought' round by
the wisdom of a woman, or the wisdom of the
devil; then they must be mad fools indeed, if
they attempt it; for it has been none but mad
fools that have written a book against me yet, by
Satan’s forming himself in them; and that their
publications have proved.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
Oct. 28th, 1813,
Digitized by
u
A WALKING to the bishops,
From JdantfA Sotithcott, by the Comtnand of tki
Lord; mhieh appeared in the Morning Herald,
November 9fk, 1815.
As the Public say that the Bishops will not givtf
themselves the trouble of searching whether my
Visitation i» of God, or not, the folk)Wing
answer was given to1me by the Spirit
“ If they go on according to’ tie judgment &f
men, and thon art confined one year in this houtie,
as a prisoner, through their neglect, then in one
year I will cot them all off, like the three signs f
Mve mdntmnwd. Know I told thee I shOtfld
begin at the sanctuary.”
The first sign was of the Bishop’s death, in
1796, which waspwt in the hand of the Rlev.Afr.
Pomeroy. The second sign was h* 18dl; as tbV
Bishop of Exeter refused to hear of the Visitation^
I was ordered to come to London, and St- Peter’s
bell ShobM toll for die-Bishop when I returned to
Exeter again, and this' Was fulfilled in 1803.
The other was the threatening tb the Bishop of
London^in 1804yas herefusedto bearof tbeVtoifi-
tion, when applied to. And, as the Lord fulfilled
his word with them, I am answered, that he will
fulfil his word with all, if they do not exert the
power they are invested With, And this I am
strictly commanded t& put in the newspaper.
And now I am oalled back- to my former Wri­
tings^ where it is said, “ One month y6u?
Il serf
your destiny, what will befell ybur latfd;” so tttW
month fixes the destiny for the ensuing year, either
for blessings or judgments. If the Bishops keep
silence till this month of November is over, then
they may keep silence until next November, 1814.
For I am answered, that now the- time is Come Of
Digitized by G o o g l e
$s
tfc fvliftmenM? a letter J senjt to the Jtev. \It.
Pomeroy, in }796:— tf Awako, my Shepherds,
?aith the Lord, fest l kindle a dm ip mine anger,
and a wrath in my fury, that .shall burp fco the
nethermost hell. . But if ye awake, 6 j£ion, and
pjut on your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem,
then shall ypur light break forth as the morning,
and your righteousness appear as the poourday
sun; and God, even our God, will give us hta
blessing.
These axe the promises, these are the threatep-
ings, which I was ordered to send to him, in
1796; and now l am answered, that the Lord
will fulfil them one way or other, according gs
the command is obeyed or disobeyed.
Bishops are now palled upon to judge between
the Shepherd and the Sheep, from a hook lately
published^ entitled, “ The Second Bookof Won-
dro,”
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
TO THE PUBLIC AT LARGE.
A Letter of Prophecy, by Joanna Southcott, in-
. serted in the Morning Herald.
2dy former Letters of Warning have roused
various passions iu men, and some public com­
ments. Among the latter I shall notice a letter in
the Stpurbridge paper of the 12th instant, signed
Ephiuas(, wherein die advises me to “ make a
friend of his Satanic Majesty; as he maylay hip
frightful paw upon me;” therefore he advises me
to “ court his favour—speak kindly of him ; for
it is .good to have a friend wherever we go.”
I shall answer him from the words of Solomon,
—“ A fool's bolt is soon shpt; the soul of thf
Digitized by Google
wickeddesireth evil; and wisdom is too high Jot
a fool” But he who thinks to find a friend id
the devil will find himself deceived. I put no
trust in man ; then I certainly shall not put trust
in the devil; who hath used his utmost endeavours
to work in the hearts of men against me: and
formed himself in men, to cast out floods of lies
against me. f have not built upon such sandy
foundation. Though the world •laugh at my
weakness, to believe that the Bishops will give
themselves the trouble of coming forward and
pass their judgment as required ; I put no more
trust in the Bishops, as men, than I do in their
chariots or horses; but my trust is in the Lord
of Hosts, who saith to the proud waves of the
lea—
-Hitherto shall thou go, and no further: who
can say to the south, give up ; and to the north,
keep not back : who can make his people willing,
in the day of his power. This is the fa ith that
I rely upon—the rock of ages, and the God
of my salvation—that the gates of hell cannot
prevail against; and this is the faith that our
Saviour said, in his Gospel, was like the wise man,
building his house upon the rock, that the rain
descended, and the floods came, and the winds
blew and beat upon that house: and it fell n o t;
for it was founded upon the rock: and this is the
rock, which I have built upon; and therefore
my house will notfall; but those who have built,
like this foolish man, will find their houses to be
built on the sand; and great will be the fall thereof.
This is my answer to the newspaper—to let
them kuow, that my trust is neither in men nor
devils; but in the Lord, whose knowledge and
peace are past man’s understanding.
And now J am ordered to put in the news­
paper a part of a Prophecy given to me yester­
day, for the public at large:—
46
Digitized ,by
yGoogle
n 1 tell thee, that the ensuing year will be such
t year as never was seen in England, since it was
a nation; for, if my commands are obeyed, that
1 send blessings to the nation, such as were never
experienced before: yet Satan’s weapons will
be strong, with rage and fury, to fight in men,
till, like Sodom and Gomorrah, they will be
destroyed, and swept away with the besom of
destruction. But, from the days of N oah, there
is a long warning, to awaken those who are
not so strongly filled with the devil against my
coming to bring in my kingdom of righteousness
and peace. Thy f a it h is given to thee as a gift
of God, which the world can neither give thee,
nor take it from thee: and they will find that the
eound o f thy Master’s feet is behind thee
This is the answer of the Lord to me.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
Friday, Nov. 19, 1819.
27
Letters o f Prophecy by Joanna Southcott.
Though the Bishops are silent to the request
made of them, and the warning given them, that
they will not come forward to support the work,
if it be of GOO, or to confute it, if not; yet I am
informed that one of the Bishops hath said, that
I have done more mischief than everan individual
had done before.
I can Scarcely credit the report to be true, that
X Bishop should see. it in this light, and not use
his authority to stop the “ mischief,” when the
power is put into his bands.
1 shall answer such Bishops, as the King’s
Jester once answered him. When a nobleman sent
a petition to his majesty, to crave bis pardon for a '
s
Digitized by ^ . o o Q l e
third murder he had committed, the king said to
- his jester, “ 1 know not what to do concerning
this man: he hath killed two men before, which I
pardoned him for, and now he hath killed the
third.” The jester answered, “ No, he has not
killed three men; "he has killed but one.” His
majesty asked him how he could make out that.
The jester said, “ if thou hadst had him hanged
for the first man, he would never have killed ano*
ther; so thou hast killed the other two. “ Ah !”
said the king, “ dost thou say so ? then he shall
never kill another.”—To this I was answered—
“ Now let the Bishop be as wise as the king,
or out of his own mouth will I condemn him ; if
he sees this mischief going on, and doth not stir
to prevent it, when I have put it in his power, and
he judge it is from the Devil, he will find my anger
kindled against him, if he still lets it go on. Will
'they suffer sin of the blackest dye to go on, and
never stir one step to stop the torrent of this evit?
Then let them know that ifiy judgments are just,
to cut them off, as cumberers of the ground: If
all should speak as thou hast heard of one, then
out of their own mouths will I condemn theni all:
for they shall find that thou art in perfect obedi­
ence to my commands. -And will they pall this
mischief? Then let them know my commands,
which stand on record—be clear,in judging that
you may be just in condemning. And now to
their consciences thop must appeal, whether they
think it be right to see mischiefspreading thrmign*
out the land,, and they standing silent to have it
so, when it is put in their power to prevent it f
For, on one side or other the sin must jale great;
because they must knpw, if tliy visitation be fron^
the Lord, and they, call it mischief,in thee to obey
my commands; then their sins mu$t be great, foj
condemning my love in warning them qf my
28
Digitized by Google
comingto establish peace and righteousness on the
earth.. If this be despised, let them own the
justice of my anger and indignation at the blas­
phemy that is daily spoken against my visitation. •
“ And this is my command to the Bishops, if
they wish to find favour in my sight, as I have in­
vested them with power, and commanded thee to
appeal to them, let them exercise that po.wer I
have pot in their hands. This is my command to
thee, that thou put my answer in the newspaper,
that they may see the justice of my threatenings,
if all be treated with silent- contempt.’V—
This is
the answer of the Lord to me.”
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
*9
Mr. E ditor,—I notice in your paper of the
26th instant; an answer to ihy letter on the 20tb»
respecting my faith, by a writer, under the signa- .
ture of “ A Methodist,” who expresses himself to
be the true Ephraim, wishing for instruction, and
desirous of knowing whether my pretensions be
a vain boasting of faith, upheld by applying the
Scriptures to myself, or whether it be grounded
on the Rock of Ages.
These inquiries are just, therefore I shall an­
swer a wise man~ac'cording to his wisdom. I
shall first say, as our Saviour did to John the Bap*
tist, when he sent his disciples to know if he were
the Christ. He said, go your way and tell John
what things ye have seen and heard; and in like
manner my answer is to Ephraim, that I have ex*
perienced the truth of the spirit, which visits me
from the year ninety-two to this day, of both pri*
vate and public events, concerning this nation and
the surrounding nations; and these prophecies
werefirst put into the hands of ministers front
Digitized by L j O O Q l e
*>
the year 1796 to 1S00, for them to be witnesses of
the truth being foretold. In the year 1801,1 pub­
lished to the world at large. In 1803, during the
rime of peace, I published what was hastening on,
of the war that hath since taken place. And I
ean prove from my writings, how these events
were foretold, when there was no 'appearance of
them* Therefore I may say with the woman of
Samaria, behold the man that told me all things:
tell me, is not this the Christ, who hath thus far
fulfilled his words, in the past, and now given me
strength of faith to insert prophecies in the public
papers, of what shall happen,m one year, accord­
ing as men obey or disobey what is required of
them ? If they cannot judge from the past, they
may judge from what is to come; therefore mine
is no boasting faith, without knowing in whom I
have believed, but a faith fixed on the Rock of
Ages, with strong and sure ground to rely on, that
no one knoweth of but myself. The world must
judge me worse than mad, to insert such things
in the newspapers, if I had not a full assurance
that what the Lord hath said he will fulfil. I
have shewn my faith by my works, and the. gates
of hell cannot prevail against me.
Now I shall notice another observation made
by “ A Methodist,* where he says—“ Would to
heaven that myself and my brethren wereinvested
with the authority of the Bishops, and we would
soon search out the truth.” To this I am answer­
ed-*■
“ Let him try his brethren, and he wilt find
them like David’s brethren, to condemn tlie pride
of his heart; and like Ephraim, tlie pride of
Israel to testify to his face; for they do not return
to the Lord their God, nor seek him for all this ;
therefore, if he puts his trust in man, he will soon
become like Ephrajm, a silly dove without 8
Digitized by Google
heart; if he doth not put his trust in the Lord,
and say with David, there is cause enough, (for
he knoweth not what man is,) his brethren, like
Strangers, will devour his strength; therefore no
trust can be put in man. But, if he be the true
Ephraim, he will now apply himself to wisdom,
and get understandings and see that it is time to
sow to yourselves in righteousness, to reap in
mercy: break up your fallow ground, for it is
time to seek the Lord, till he come and rain
righteousness upon you ; then I will not return to
destroy Ephraim, for I am God, and not man, the
Holy one in the midst of thee.”
This is a prophecy given me for the true Eph­
raim, who wishes to be clear in judging, before
be condemns.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
Tuesday, Nap. S
O
, 1813.
The following was sent to the Morning Herald,
but the Editor objected to its being inserted.
31
The following are the words of the Lord re*
effecting the conduct of the Bishops.
“ Two months thou hast been warning the
Bishops; once by the private letter and hook;
to wnich they were silent; then I ordered thee
to warn them in the public newspapers, and gave
them liberty to come to thee; or they might
have sent to Pomeroy, and ordered him to come
to: thee, to convince thee that thy visitation was
wrong, if the language of his heart was different
from what thou hadst been informed of by m e;
as then to his judgment thou must have given
u p ; for thisnower I put in their hands. But, as
they have refused either to come to thee, to judge
Digitized by f l o o s i e
&
for theirselves, or to send fot him to decide the
cauise; I now tell thee, my appointed time is op;
and my strict command is now to thee to call
Pomeroy forward, to answer, between God and
his own conscience, whether the words are true
or not, that I told thee concerning him. For, as
he said that the Lord would bring thee into judg­
ment for injuring his character, he shall know it
is I the Lord who bringeth him into judgment, to
judge between the wisdom of man and the wis-
dom:of the Lord. Know, he said it was through
the persecution and persuasions of men that he
was made to destroy the letters which I ordered
thee to put in his hands. Theft now let him look
to the words of the Apostle, l Cor. i. 19-—“ Fo#
it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of tho
wise, and bring to nothing the understanding of
the prudent. The world by wisdom knoweth not
God.” He hath followed the wisdom of the
world; thou hast rejected the wisdom of the
world, to follow on to know the Lord: then
know it is written, Ye shall know the Lord, if ye
follow on to know him. And now, by the dif­
ferent cpnduct of you two, shall the truth of this
Scripture be established; to stand or fall. There­
fore my answer must go into the1public paper,
that, as the Bishops have refused to come for­
ward to be any judges of my visitation to thee,
as it was required, so I now forbid them all from
cbming to thee, till thou hast liad Pomeroy’s an­
swer. For it must now be decided between him
and thee alone; and when thou hast made every
thing clear before him; then let him pass his
final'judgment. And if he then say it is from
the devil; then to his judgment thou shalt give
up thy cause; and ask his pardon in the public
paper, for disgracing his character, if he can
prove that thbu art'wrong, and that he is right; .
Digitized by L a O O Q l e
in acting according to the wisdom Of min. But
this cannot be decided by letter: he must«appear
.in person, and have every thing laid before him.
But he will have none to contend with but thee
.only; and thou shalt have none to contend with
but him only, until he hath decided, which is
■wrong, and which,is right. • '
“ And now, I tell thee, it will be fatal for him*
if he now refuses to come forward, and judge
for himself—to decide between him and thee: for
in this he is called to-judge between God and
-mat]. So that I have laid no:heavy burden upon
him, to contend with the great.and learned, be*
fore every thing is made clear before him. And
now let him call to his remembrance the Eleven
Days, that I said were in stoitf, to stay my heavy
hand; but he must not stay till they- are up.
This is my command to him; Let him hastily
prepare for his journey, ps soon as he receives
,the .newspaper,., which :I .have. ordered thee to
send to him. As the Bishops have .hot called
him forward, let him know, I the Lord have
called him, to decide the truth of the Prophecy,
which I ordered thee to send to the Bishops.”
This warning is given from the Lord tb me,
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
Wednesday, Dec. 1st, 1813.
- l h n c < j;/::n-. ■
*. ‘in Mifil!'- ,, ; A ;:i,A .. ’ 1 i'
33
On Sunday, July 31, 1814, the Rev. Mr.
Tozcr asserted, in the pulpit of Joanna’s chapel,
the following sentence *
“ Brethren, I am ready to take my sacramen­
tal oath, that no man has seen or spokeu to Jo­
anna Southcotr, since August, 1813.”— And,
Digitized by Google
on Sunday, August38, 1814, (die day <mwhich
the whole of Joanna’s Chapds closed, until after
the birth of the Child,) Mr. Tozer declared,
from the gallery-window of the Chapel, to an
immense multitude who were assembled outside,
that he expected Joanna would be delivered <by
the middle of October next. And, in his dis­
course in the pulpit, on the same day, he said,
the people would be convinced of the truth of
their belief, by the extraordinary signs and cir­
cumstance that would accompany and follow the
birth of the C h i l d t h a t the time was approach­
ing when mankind would all be in a perfect state
of happiness, as they were before the f a l l t h a t
there would be no more occasion for man to
labour, and earn his bread by the. sweat of his
brow;—but that the time would arrive when
there would be no more wars or blood-shed, that
every man might set peaceably under his own
vine, and under his own fig-tree, none making
him afraid.
34
The following is a fee-simile of Joanna South
cott’s Seal.
Digitized by Google
THE
PREGNANCY
OF
Joanna Southcott
CONFIRMED.
'1
By a Professional Gentleman Eminence. ..
“ The following it a brief statement of the
facts which-1 ascertained on a visit. I paid to
Joanna Southcott, on Wednesday, the 18th in­
stant, by the desire of one of her friends:—I was
admitted into her apartment about eleven o’clock
in the forenoon, and after hearing the statement
of her complaints, she allowed me to make such
examination as I might consider necessary, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether she was
pregnant or not. — On examining the breasts, I
found them much enlarged, particularly the mam*
mary glands,—the abdomen was much distend­
ed, £nd, on minute examination, evidently from
enlargement of the womb.— These facts not
being sufficient evidence of the pregnancy, I ex­
pressed a wish to be permitted to keep my right
hand over the womb, for the purpose of dis­
covering the motion of the foetus, on which she
observed, that it generally moved when she took
nourishment; a piece of ripe fruit was then
Digitized by O o o Q l e
har.ded to her by hef fplMe attendant, on mas-
tlcaiing which t*.2 motion of the foetus was very
evkvr-t. : '
. *h In the early period of pregnancy, it is often
vtey^diftiibtt to ascertain whether the uterus be
impregnated or not; but, in an advanced stage,
when the w
peculiar uudulatory motion of the
Child is evident on external examination, there
can be no doubt of the fact of pregnancy, par­
ticularly when accompanied with enlargement of
the mammary glands, and the presence of milk
ih the breasts,
*‘“ 'Having thus satisfied my mind of «.he preg­
nancy of J oanna Southcott, .1 applied, for a
Certificate of her age, which 1 received this
morningi and of which the following is a
Copy :— ''y. ‘ ,
*{ ‘ Joanna, the daughter of William and
‘ Hannah Southcott, baptized the 6th day f f
* June, 1750, as appears by the Register qf
‘ Baptism o f Q ttfry, St. Mary's Parish,
j .. ‘ Devon, .
(Signed,) R ichard Seaward,
• “ ;ii : ; ;j '.............. Parish-Clerk*
:<;:i v i — ' - -.....................
£ regard the, pregnancy of JpApNA South-
qott extraordinary .only in. a professional point
ofview. , Of her Prophecies I api ignorant.
/ i./ . iOig*ted,) R ichard R b&
cs.”
PfccajilUhtAvg?* ISM,,
36
Printed byJonn Faikburh, 8, Broadway, Lndgato>HiU.
/ .
/;
FAIRBURN’. EDITION
O f T i l t
PROPHETESS;
W
Southcott and Shiloh.
'O
To be continued.
\ \ V’ *
’*/o ^ Vv-
^ t'j /.»i CX *tO \ V ’'*i . "j - ./\i, , , V ^
a:.* ■ ... v v. ::
A>t6rA^«idfcig1fy-fa»h£&?d & m t ‘
cott. - •
<
■■
-< .. , .. \\
A Letter in the Tima, signed W ., ,, ' ,’ .
Dr: #m fcisOjtidkfo61 _
turner. . , . ’ •
A Letter in the Morning Advtrtiter, sighed §. 0. H.
A Letter in the Tima, signed J. W.
Dr. Reece’s Reply to the foregoing Letters.
Joanna Southcott’s Letter to Dr. Reece.
lonnon;
PRINTED and PUBLISHED by JOHN FAIRBURN,
% Broadway, Ludgate-Hill.
Price Sixpence.
Digitized by Google
TO THE PUBLIC
This work will contain an impartial and aw*
thentic Record o f every L etter or Document
worthy o f insertion, concerning the Miracu- .
loti* Pregnancy and Mission o f thk moot c*.
traordinary fem ale, who may, with great
propriety, be coded the Woftder of the Nine*
teenth Century! ! .
Digitized by Google
I
Digitized by b o o g i e
J O A N N A S O I T T H C O T T
*
•*
'0
1
Digitized by Google
