{"name":"Life Of Joanna Southcott 4316","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1814__hughson___life_of_joanna_southcott.pdf","mytitle":"Life Of Joanna Southcott","mylang":"de"}
L IF E OF
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT
ILLUSTRATIVE OF HER SUPPOSED MISSION^ ,
/*•f <
•a,-'
l~ ■. \ ■■
-
her it; •
ERRONEOUS OPINIONS AND DELUSIVE PROP^Ei
B E R PRO FANENESS, R E SP E C T IN G B E R P R E G N JN C T
AMD
THE BIRTH OP SHILOH:
TO WHICH ARE ADDED, THE
OBSERVATIONS OP THE FACULTY
ON HER BODILY COMPLAINTS ,
•
WITH
S t r i c t u r e s o n fjcr C o n U u ct,
AS FAR AS IT AFFECTS RELIGION, MORALITY,
AND THE PUBLIC MIND.
BY D. HUGHSON, LL.D.
EDITOR OF THE HIBTORV OF LONDON, AND OTHER WORKS.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR AND PUBLISHED BY S. A. ODDY,
2, IYY-LANE, NEWGATE-STREET.
1814.
Digitized by Google
•
•
FRUITED BY HAMBLIN AND SEYFANG, GARLICK HILL,
THAMBf STREET.
Digitized by Google
TO
THE READER.
-A t a period when men are illuminated by
philosophy, founded on experience; a philo­
sophy which is proved, and which is esta­
blished beyond contradiction; it is doubly
lamentable, that such a period for useful
knowledge should also be perplexed by the
wild vagaries of fanciful illusion, obscured un­
der the denominations of prophecies, visions,
and other delusive titles, to impose on the
unwary and weak-minded classes of the popu­
lation forming the British Empire.
Yet, strange as it may appear in the nine­
teenth century, at a time also, when science
seemed to have arrived at such a proud de­
gree of eminence, the spirit of fanaticism
has obtruded itself on die minds of men
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
4 PREFACE.
by means of—to say the best of them—the wit­
less efflorescences of a distracted old woman,
of whom it might not have been worth taking
further notice^ had pot $be enthusiasm of her
disciples, (as contemptible in their opinions,
as they are crafty in their conduct,) indus­
triously and widely circulated her absurdi­
ties, which too many have been injudicious
enough to credit, though he? URRginspry re­
velations are not only groundless In tbemr
selves, bpt evidently foptrswry to %
S frip(ures.
T o prevent, therefore, as much as pp^iblp,
such a delusion of Satan, a? the prophecjefc pf
Joanna Southcott. from accpmplishii^ itft \pc
tended mischief, is the benevolent object, pf th.VI
publication; and it is( hoped fhat^ assuph ip-r
tention may be considered Jpst ppd
the judgments conferred on it may be candid
a n d faw p rp h ip t
Digitized by Google
JOAXXA SOVTBCOTT.
1792^ 1814.
•A.MONO the various classes of impostors, Who bat*
figured away in the earlier ages, and down to the pre*
sent period, few have obtained more notoriety> or
have aimed at higher distinctions in the universe, than
the present Object of consideration*~-Tbe terrific Buo*
fcaparte, who has for so long a period kept the prostrate
World in slavery, appears but a very humble figure
when compared with the colossal Joanna, who aspires a{
nothing less than to raise a war in heaven, by professing
herself to be appointed the mother of a second Messiah,
had thus to mount the human race to its walls by
means of her spiritual stepdadders. It is not, how*
ever, as yet ascertained whether unbelievers or (he
Unsealed are to enj6y the beatific presence in common
With those Who have paid the full purchase nioheyV**
Doubtless .if the proceedings continue, some medium
will also be suggested to admit the truly needy, on reh«
sonabie terms, to a participation ofthe benefits resulting
from her prophetic progress and—her parturition f
We would premise, however* that the dissipation Of
error should accompany the fight of improvement, aal
Digitized by Google
2 HISTORY O f RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
that such benefit from the labours of so many eminent phi­
losophers/ divines, and illuminated men as have done
honour to their existence and to mankind, should have
found its way into the recesses of the uncultivated heart,
and ere this have taught men that the age of miracles
is past; that the Almighty' has bestowed on us suf-
ficient instances of his mercy, by the knowledge he
has conferred to make us satisfied; and that, next to his
Divine Power, the law of Nature is the only supreme
law. Ther$ are, however, to the disgrace of all coun­
tries, and the scandal of true and genuine Christianity,
a succession of Quacks in sacred mysteries, ever ob­
truding themselves on the notice of mankind. The attacks
of these intrusive men-devourers are first directed to the
piously ignorant, whom they attract by promises of fa­
miliar conversation with the Creator of Heaven and
Earth, and a special election for those who have the
gift to comprehend dogmas and eccentricities, which the
children of this world, with what are denominated u un­
sanctified optics/1 cannot discover.—These compounds
of lunacy and erratic delusion are soon noticed by
some of the deeper dealers in spiritual things, and a
partnership is virtually formed to promulgate a new
system of faith, just as empirics set up a new medi­
cine, on speculation. We all too well know, that the
uninformed classes of the public are ever ready to
swallow any nostrum, which makes up in promises
what it is sure eventually to lack in performance;
hence the contagion upon what is to be, and what
may be expected\ rapidly extends, till it becomes a re-
Jigioh* fashion to join in the folly, as well as to sup*
Digitized by Google
JOANNA 850fH C O T t. 3
port it, from that love of singularity which affects
to find divine agency in a dreaming old woman; and
to follow any track which diverges more than usual
from the common path* It may be asserted, with truths
that a ntore futile attack on the foundation stone of
Christianity was never made, than that now projected
by Joanna. She has referred to the incarnation of the
Virgin Mary by the Holy Ghost, and treated it as a mys*
tical procreation. She then boldly asks €t why the
same effect may not a second time be produced by the
same cause ?" Were such questions as these to be did]
cussed by every profane pretender to divine and hidden
mysteries; the natural consequence must be what de*
licacy and modesty would abhor ; but, though calculated
to undermine the supernatural conception of the holy
Virgin^ lor. turn that incomprehensible mystery into con*
tempt1and absurdity, it would only more firmly establish
the:rock on which the Christian faith is built,
a lt is a disgustful kind of blasphemy on the part
ofJoanna, and a wilful insult to the Divinity on the
jtartb f those.who espouse her snpposednmission, when
*he declares,, in one of her communications from the
-Spirit? tf.That, ifthe visitation ef the Lord does ribt pro­
duce a son this year, then was not Jesus Christ thb son
O
f*God, .born in the manner spoken of by the Virgin
Maty * but, if she have a son, then in likt manner was
our Sividar boriu”—Placing herself thus on a parallel
line !with*the n&otber of the Messiah, and encouraged
in her lunacy by the knavery of her partisans, she
holds i& mental bonds an amazing proportion of the
Stupid part of the English nation; and by the bold*
Digitized by Google
4 HISTORY (OR .RIUOIOUS IWQSTVMES*
■ess with Which she cones forward, she confound*, with
her conanmtnato impudence and absurdity* those who
have nothing more than common sefcse.ayd common on*
penernde with whichto camhut her rhapsodies*
For a long; period of time—
rfco long; alas!, of valuable
time to be thrown away on (to give it. its smoothest
name) nonsensical vulgarity,; has this antiquated Sibyl
appeared a conspicuous figure with thfc unthinking pass
of the public* and every year has;seen, her placed moto
and mione in the fore ground; there; however, is a point
beyond which she cannot go, and that noW
i aeoms to bo
vapidly advanoing***-Her gift* and hep prophetic* havo
caught the unwary, botji young and old c $he weak
are out o£ the tyueatioy; but the wicked have literally
brought good oo$ d e v il, and tmryed to a nmiy profitable
account the frauds of their patroness* It should trad#
howeter, that this discussion of. the cause 6f heaven
, has not fallen to the lot of learning and learned men; for
Joafintfs divine conveyknees of what she calls/' the trye
Meaeiabf bardtoadeanection, in henspiritual eflbsione,
cither /with gfoiniqqr, legible writing, or tetesnbfo
rbynse j hev ookammioations, though said to be “ foem an
oogel/*’heaving nd sitnifttude to the production ofclp**
steal refinement nr human intellect. >
We are< of opiniori, potwithstanding many tallythink
the mfMionartds of the law ought to be sedt lo effect a
suppression of the missionof Joanna, that; the Bishops
cf the cealm have acted wlthtroe- Christian prudence
and charity. ; They hare wisely Suffered bet and heir
proptbeaies to exqde themselves/aad ha** not* by oppn-
sitienjiatreped the number of pibselytes;—
dttdoodtbo
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
JOANNA fOVTHCOTT*
greater part of the public, who think at ail, hare shown
•ach evident contempt for the doctrines and the die*
ciples of Joanna, that her sanctuaries have been shut
op, to avoid mischievous consequences. The magis­
trates may have privately interfered; as the uwolah
aatisfted with the Messiah already revealed, began to
manifest a communication of a Very different description
to that of Joanna’s.
Various have been, the ebullitions called prophecies
made in different yeais by this antiquated virgin almost
all of which have totally failed.r^In oae of her pamphlets
she foretells, that in the pest year she shell be tried and
aentedced by the twelve judges; in 179$, she asserts that
only Hr years would be added teher life; in 1807, *'the Dei­
ty commissioned her/' she sayv, '* to lead the people front
tbepr homes, in London, to a place of safety, where the
Providence e f God would protect them, and keep their
houses ami property safe till their return and in 1811*
"Britain was to become the adeem ed kingdom of the
Lord$* but in the previous year, 1810, awfbi signs were
to threaten the nation; MBuonaparte was to effect n
landing, and te be pat to death by her sealed p e o p le in
1818, she prophecied the death of the worthy Mr* Flinty
e f Camberwell, in a letter to him> on a certain month*
bat that gentleman has not been affected by tbe pro­
phecy ; th is however, is affirmed to be a forgery, as it
did not actually happen. Tfrese and numerous prophe­
cies have failed, but her deluded followers, notwithstand­
ing they have been so often made the laughing-stock of
their neighbours, have rebutted all taunts by indefinite pfc-
plunations, and nowTeok with sure and certain bope.te tk*
Digitized by Google
HISTORY OP RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
6
grand event which is to produce “ the Almighty Shiloh#
-the third representative of Divinity* the infant monitor
of the Prince Regent, in whose palaces the bantling is
-to pass its first six years* and from whom the Prince
k first to receive the lessons of reform and temperance.”
The fatal consequences of some of this woman's doc*
trines were evidently shown in the fate of Mary'Bate*
man* who gave potions for exorcism* and mixed up
arsenic to produce magical cures. That offender was
tried and executed on Saturday* May 18* 1809* for the
murder of Mrs* Perigo* of Bramley
In what point of view the public will! consider those
medical gentlemen* who; either from ignorancfe, design*
or discipleship, have joined in the religious hoaj^iiiis
not for us to say: but; we observe,-with Dr. Sims* that
"w e do not wish to be accopntedcf such* the paks
tisans of an unfortunate creature* Who is no impostor*
but evidently labouring under mental dej^aagemenU"—It
would be unnecessary and out of order here to state
the physical reasons given by medical gentlemen* fog*
the impossibility of the pregnancy of Joanna* in her
65th year.—Dr. R» ResCe* of Pall Mall* ’(and several
others*) have publicly affirmed*, that Joanna is.probably
-with child* and* no doubt* will hold a distinguished pre­
ference with maiden ladies,who come two pr three dozen
years after the usual timer-*We shall n0iy proceed to
detail her history. ' *
Joanna Southcott first drew breatht in the hqrabie
village of Gettisham* in Devonshire) in the naoathof
April, 1750, and it appears* by the parish register*signed
Richard Seaward* Parish Clerk of Otfcery St* Mary*
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT* T
Devon, was baptized June 6, 1750 as the daughter of
William and Hannah Soutbcott:—Her father was a pea*
sant, and, with her mother, followed the regular esta­
blishment, the prayers of which are still read iq, all the
Prophetess’s meetings.—No extraordinary wonders ac­
companied the birth of our heroine, the stars rising and
setting as usual, and the moon giving its accustomed
light, notwithstanding in latter years she has evidently
been under its influence**—She informs us, “ that the
angels rejoiced at her birth*”
It has been observed, that superstition is the spleen of
the soul, and it is never more powerfully exhibited than
in the actions of those who have put on a false cou:
rage and alacrity in the midst of their darkness and ap­
prehensions; like children, who, when they go in the
dark, will sing for fear. This was plainly evident in the
younger part of the life of Joanna Southcott; she af-
fected a passion for ayoung man named Noah Bishop, who
had, in vain, attempted to attract her regard. She
confessed she loved him, but the vagrancy of her
thoughts impelled her to reject what she had not the
understanding to value; and, in the vague hope of con*
soling herself with infinity, she treated, with decided
contempt, the virtuous advances of a youth, who might,
perhaps, have rendered her useful to society, as the
mother and guardian of a numerous offspring.
But celibacy was her choice; and, according to her
own account,.it was inconsistent with her constitution:
for she acknowledges that “ she loved h i m h e r mind
must, therefore, have induced great depravity, when
she could give a decided preference to celibacy, con*
Digitized by v ^ o o s l e
0 HISTORY O f tU tlG lO O S tBtVESTURES.
Wary to her nature, and reject matrimony which carried
with it every consolation, and, when duly encouraged
and prized, is the source of every blessing that m6f.
tals can experience. But Joanna was narrow-souled,
and might be compared with a narrow*necked bottle; the
jess liquor it contains the more noise is made in pouring
Out; thus, though she wished to make a boast of her
Contumacy against her nature, it has failed, and the
Sensible ranks of mankind have only been confirmed,
that this, as well as all the rest of her conduct, haS
proved her to be a ridiculous derider of piety, and
fbat kind of hypocrite who makes a sober jest of God
and religion. Her passions have been like convulsion
fits, which, though they made her stronger for the time,
have left her weaker ever after.
Her turn of mind in her youth has been termed
•#religious,'9
9 for what reason we are at a loss to deter*
mine* Has she evinced either by her publications or
her practice any bias of religion Fanaticism has been
her object; with all its accompaniments of delusion
ittd profaneness*
It appears, that in the year 1790, she was employed
as a workwoman in the shop of an upholsterer, at Ex­
eter. We do not take upon us to listen to the many fa­
brications respecting her conduct whilst employed by
the upholsterer; had her conduct in his employ been
reprehensible, there is no doubt but that he would
have acted as became him ; and therefore we consign
such fabrications to the. score of ill-nature and scandal*
Her master being of what is called the methodisti*
<al persuasion, had many visitors of that persuasion to
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT. 9
frequent his shop^ With these persons Joanna was
held in great estimation; and, indeed, some of their
ministers considered her to possess what they called ts a
serious turn of mind/’
Under such impressions and with such encourage­
ments, Joanna began to assume an authoritative manner
of deportment, very unsuitable to her situation as a
shopwoman, but very consistent with the views which
she afterwards formed to herself, of profiting by pre­
tensions she should lay claim to, as the future bugbear
to 'tho$e who might be wefck enough to be deceived by
her fanciful impositions.
Having received such encomiums on her apparent se­
riousness, which she imagined sufficient testimonials of a
call, she took upon herself to be a religious dictator, to
argue religious topics, and to be a decider of religious
controversies. These new lights, in her now supposed
superiorly-animated frame, to those who were easy of
belief and unwilling to be informed, were regarded as
prodigies; and she began to feel her superiority over
the vulgar and uninformed, who passed encomiums on
what they themselves knew not the meaning.
Her importance also began to be disclosed by her
dreams, in which she declared the Divinity had evinced
his intentions towards her ; these, with the,aid of extra­
ordinary visions, as she confidently asserted, gave her
sqfficient manifestation, that she was inspired beyond the
conamon credibility of human nature.
. Joanna’s conduct now proved, that vain-glory is a distor­
tion of the mj#ji which turns the eye t
of the soul always up­
on itself, butdiscards all thoughts of pu#lesty, decency, and*
*
Digitized by C j O C K ^ I c
10 HISTORY t t ftfctlClOVS ltf#©$TURES.
good fame, as at too groat &distance to be distinguished *
for, to Joanna's haughty mind, as at this lime vitiated,
Oil her fellow-creatures Seemed heir inferiors.
In such a disposition, she happened* in sweeping Out her
master's shop, to find a seal oh Which Were engraven the
letters 1.3. She declared, that she had dreamed of this tit* ’
cumstance, that the coincidence could be noleSstfaah toirtt*
culous, nor Could the letters be otherwise designated than*
for “ Joanna SouthcotU** The realization of such acircutn*
Stance bore down all opposition $ it were the grossest teat
Of incredulity to dehy it. The shop was deserted by So
favoured a being. She considered herself now called by
divine inspiration, and determined to minister her in­
fusions Where their most profitable effects might be pm*
duetiVe. ’
She, in began her declarations, that *
*her
lord had visited her, who promised to ehter into ftii
everlasting covenant with her, and told her that a Vision
Would be shown to her in the night !**
Let tis pause. Before ieSus Christ was declared upon
earth, the WnrlA was pervaded by tile absurd notions of
idolatry; and the Jews were called God's people, be*
cause they Were tin ekdeption to the general practice.—
Whence coild such low, such unworthy notions of the
Omnipotent Deity have arisen, bet from the vitiated atrd
derogatory ideas Which human hhture, ever imperftetft,
had suggested to itself bf the bfenfeficehce and pOWet Of
an all-wise and infinite Disposer ? Such most aft6 have
been the view in Which Joanna had been accustomed to fa­
miliarize berSelf With hdr God! making Him the feabjefct
of dreams and vision’
s, to impose, alas! at some fbtorepe-
Tiod upon her fellow«creaturOs !
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SQUHJCOTT* I I
We will deaj, however, towards this woman, with p
more Christian spirit* than she bas condescended to exer­
cise towards those who have not been purchasers of her
fraudulent baubles, which she has denominated
We will hope, that her excuse is a mental affliction* that,
at no distant period, she may be restored to her senses;
and, such a lynd Providence having been extended towards
* her, that she may make another kind of revelation by un­
deceiving the world, particularly those who have been
weak enough to be deluded; and, by declaring, that her
ebullitions of profaneness arose from a disordered frame
of mind, and were the fruits of an afflicted state of
body. •
To such a state of depravity had she now arrived,
that she presumed to assert that the Lord had ap*
peared to her, not in the “ Beauty of his Holiness/' not
in the “ Majesty of his Power/'—npt in the €i Greatness
of his M e r c y b u t sometimes in the shape of a Cal»—
then like a Cup! which'Joanna says she kicked to pieces;
but this made her very uneasy, till she was told that they
were nothing m.ojre than the tricks 6f Satan, with a view
to torment her. Her religious friends endeavoured to
imprint such notions upon her wanderipg ideas, and strov?
to convince her, that she was the dupe of a diabolical
spirit, and that Satan himself was the origin of her de­
lusion. This so far set her perturbed spirit at rest for
the moment, that she reguested a meeting of her friends
to be summoned, at which tjhe question of her supposed
mission might be discussed, and set at rest.
' At this meeting-Joanna conducted herself with such
power and haughtiness, that the argumentwn ad hominm
Digitized by Google
12 HISTORY OP RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES
bore all before it $ every divinity, except that which Jo-
aiina was supposed to possess, was out of the question.
The whole assembly, to the amount of fifty-eight persons,
were imediately enlisted under the new regime, and
were induced, or rather commanded, to witness the fol-
lowing most valuable document
“ I, Joanna Southcott, am cTearly convinced that my
calling is of GoO, and my writings are indicted by his
spirit: it is impossible for any spirit but an all-wise God
that is wondrous in working, wondrous in wisdom, won­
drous in power, wondrous in truth, could have brought
•
I
round such mysteries so full of truth, as is in my writ­
ings: sol am clear in whom I have believed, that all my
writings come from the spirit of the most high God.
“ J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .
“ Signed in the presence of fifty-eight persons (inclu­
ding the Methodist preachers) who assented to the truth
of the statement*”
Joanna now assumed an unprecedented degree of
supremacy; she took upon herself the titles of " the
Elide,”—1
" the Lamb’s Wife,—" the Woman cloathed
with the Sun, &c.” This was during the year 1792,
whilst she was a resident in Exeter.
It was at this time also that Joanna, according to her
own account, began to be “ strangely visited day
and night, concerning what was coming upon the whole
earth.” “ I was,” says she, u here ordered to set it
down in writing, I obeyed, though not without strong
external opposition; and so it has continued to the pre­
sent time ” (181L )
Digitized by C * o o a l e
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT. 13
The following we think some of the most sensible
remarks ever suggested to her:—
“ In 1792, my sister told me I was going out of my
senses; She said, 4You say there will be a war. Who
shall we go to war with ? , The French are destroying
themselves. As to the dearth of provisions you speak of,
you are wrong; for corn will come down very low5 I
could not make 4s. 6d. a bushel of the best wheat this
year. As to the distresses of the nation, you are wrong
there; for England was never in a more flourishing state
than it is at present/ I answered, « Well, if it be of
God, it will come to pass, however likely or unlikely it ,
may appear at present. If not, I shall hurt no one but
myself in writing it. I am the fool, and must be the
sufferer, if it be not of God. If it be of God, I would
not refuse for the world, and am determined to err on
the safest side/ My sister thought she should err on the
safest side, by preventing me from doing it ; and said,
1 should not do it in her house. However, I took advan­
tage of her absence; and, in 1792, I wrote of what has
since followed in this nation and all others; but the end
is not yet.— I left iny writings at Plymtree, and came
back to Exeter.
4t In 1793,the war broke out; and in this year, three
.remarkable things happened, which I had written of in
1792. These events strengthened my judgment that it
was of God ; for it was said, 4
4 Whatever I put into thy
mouth, I will do upon the earth.”
From this period Joanna began to attach to herself in­
numerable converts, who all subscribing to the Ways and
Means, Joanna’s finances were amply increased; for it
Digitized by Google
I t HISTORY OF RRLIGIOUS IMPOSTURES*
seems that Folly now began to pay more than ordinary
court to this pretended administratrix of salvation j her
peals sold in a very surprising manner. Beatitudes were
purchasable at from twelve shillings to one guinea per
head!
Credulity is the common failing of inexperienced vir­
tue ; he, therefore, who is spontaneously suspicious, may
be justly charged with radical corruption ; for, if he has
pot known the prevalency of dishonesty by information,
nor had time to observe it with his own eyes, whence
can be take his measures of judgment but from himself?
^Certainly.—But when evidence, palpable evidence,
decidedly informs him in what quarter not only suspicion*
but stubborn fact stalks in all the majesty of impudence;
would it not appear the greatest mark of vacuity of
intellect, not to be apprehensive of, and to guard against'
such corruption of principles and contagious injury by
the most penetrating depravity ?—considering that there
is no ambition, however petty, no wish, however absurd,
that by indulgence will pot be enabled to overcome the
influence of unsuspecting virtue. How necessary, then, is
it to point out to such, in time, the pitfalls of treachery !
The pride of ignorance is of the worst kind; and sorry
are we to say that the pride of Joanna and her followers
is of this stamp* We will try if their maxims can be ana~
Jyaed.
Let us try by the Scripture. Nothing appears to imply
any authority to such beings as Joanna, On the contrary,
the Almighty, in bis expostulation with the Jews on
tbeir causeless nevoit, uses the following expressions, very
applicable to our present purpose
JOANNA 30UTMC0TT, IS
u I had planted thee a noble vine, wholly a right
seed how then art thou turned it\to the degenerate
plant of a strange vine unto me ? For though thou wash,
thee with nitre, and take thee much soap, yet thine ini*
<)aity is marked before me, saith the Lord God.
*' How canst thou say I am not polluted, I have
not gone after Baalam ? See thy way in the valley, from
What thou hast done ; thou art a swift dromedary traver*
shig her ways; a wild ass used to the wilderness, that
Snudfeth up the wind at her pleasure; in her occasion
Who can turn her away ? all they that seek her will not
Weary themselves; in her mouth they shall find hen
--•saying to a stock, " Thou w* my f a t h e r a n d to a
Stone, u Thou hast brought me forth/*
“ They have turned their backs upon me, and not
'their face; but iu the time of their trouble they will say,
**Arise, and save us.,#
* Bert where are the gods that thou hast made thee?
Let them arise if they can save thee in the time of thy
trodbte. Wherefore will ye plead for me ?—Ye have alt
transgressed against me,” saith the Lord.—J er. ii. v. 21.
" They have Chosen their own ways, and their soul
deligfateth in abomination. I also will choose their de-
lusions, and will bring their fears upon thee, because^
when I called none did answer ; when I spake they did
not hear; but they did evil before mine eyes, and chose
that in which I delighted not.—Isaiah, Ixvi. v. 3.
The Scripture, it is plain from the above quotations,
will not suit to analyze Joanna or her principles. Let
us try her by the maxims of morality. The following tale
ft rery much toour purpose
16 HISTORY OF RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
<
< When the plains of India were burnt up by a long
continuance of drought, Hamet and Raschid, two neigh­
bouring shepherds, faint with thirst, stood at the com­
mon boundary of their grounds, with their flocks and
herds panting round them, and, in the height of distress^
prayed for water.
On a sudden, the air was becalmed, the birds ceas?
ed to chirp, and the flocks to bleat. The shepherds
turned their eyes every way, and beheld a Being of
mighty stature advancing through the valley, whom they
knew, upon his approach, to be the Genius of Distribution.
In one hand he held the sheaves of plenty, and in the-
other, the sabre of destruction. The shepherds stood
^trembling, and would have retired before him; but he
called to them, with a voice gentle as the breeze that
plays in the eveuing among the spices of S&baea, *Fly
not from your benefactor, children of the dust! I am
come to offer you gifts, which only your own folly can
make vain. You here pray for water, and water I will
bestow; let me know with how much you will be satis­
fied. Speak not rashly; consider, that, of whatever can
be enjoyed by the body, excess is no less dangerous than
scarcity., When you remember the pain of thirst, do
not forget the danger-of suffocation. .Now, Hamet, tell
me your request/
u *0 Being, kind and beneficent/ said Hamet, / let
thy eye pardon my confusion. 1 intreat a little brook^
which, in suipmer, shall never be dry, and in winter
never overflow/ *It is granted/ replied the Genius;
and immediately he opened the ground with his sabre^
and a fountain bubbled up under their feet, which scat­
Digitized by G o o g l e
JOANNA80.UTHC0TT. 17
tered its rill# over-the meadows; the flowers renewed
their fragrance, the, trees spread a greener foliage, and
the flocks and herds quenched,their thirst.
“ Then,turning-to Raschid, the genius invited him
likewise to offer his petition. 1 1 request,* says Raschid,
that tbpu wilt turn the Ganges through my grounds, with
all his water,, and all their inhabitants.’ Hamet was
struck with the greatness of his ^neighbour’s sentiments,
and secretly repined in his heart that he had not made
the same petition before him; when he was struck with
wonder by the answer of the genius to Rasebid's exor­
bitant request* *Rash man/ said the Genius, ‘ be not
insatiable! Remember that to thee there is nothing
which thou canst not use; and how are thy wants greater
than the wants of Hamet ?* Raschid repeated bis greedy
desire; at the same time, pleasing himself with the
mean appearance that Hamet^would make in tfc presence
of the proprietor of the Ganges/
" The genius then retired towards the river, and the
two shepherds stood in expectation of the event. The.
humble request of Hamet supplied him with plenty aqd
happiness ; .but, as Raschid was looking on his .neigh­
bour with the utmost coptempt, on a sudden was heard
the roar of torrents, and it was soon discovered, by $hp.
mighty stream, that the mounds of the Ganges werje
broken. The floods rolled into the lands of Raschid,
his plantations were torn up, his flocks overwhelmed,
himself was swept away before it, and a crocodile devour*
ed him /’
Here are two tests by which to prove Joanna’s prin­
ciples; and both, for her, have failed.—Scripture denoutu
Digitized by Google
.'-.•.VA^I
cesjudgment on her idolatry; afnd morality pointsdut the
due punishment on dissatisfied mortals. Had JPoanha
been contented with the humble situation in life which
Providence, in its dill-wise distribution had appointed
for her; that Providence would have supported her *
through life, with competency and happiness; but the
moment she aimed at increase of such possessions as
must ultimately deluge the soul, and Sink the insatiate
invader of divine mysteries into the gulphs of desire;
immediately she lost the protection of the Divine Pro­
vidence she bad offended, “ The mystery of her iniquity
began to work; and for this cause God sent a strong
delusion, that she should believe a lie : that they all
might be damned' who believe not the truth; but had
pleasure in unrighteousness.” II. Thets. ii.
Let her adherents, who are wilfully blinded in this
iniquity, beware lest, “ that the wicked shall be te*
vealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit
of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of
his coming.”
It appears that this poor besotted being to fraud and
iniquity, endeavoured, for a long while, to ingratiate
herself with several dignitaries of the established church
of England, who uniformly despised her and her opi­
nions. We will relate her own account of the matter.
•'/In 1792, I told the Rev. Mr. L. how I had been
warned of what was coming. After hearing me in si­
lence, he said, u It comes from the devil; for not one
thing which' you have mentioned will come to pass.
You have the war in your favour, which is all that will
come true of your prophecies; and the war will be
18 HISTORY O r RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES*
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
JQAHN* ftOJJTHiCOTT. • 19
Over in a quarter of a year. It if kfrom the devil, to
disturb, youi peace : Satan bath a design to »sjft you as
wheat. Yet I believe you to be a good woman; yoor
friends speak of yon in the highest terms; but what
you have said will never come true* Besides, if it were,
the Lord would never have revealed it to you. There
are a thousand in Exeter, whom I could point out,^to
Whom the Lord would hive revealed it before he would
to you.” Of these observations I had been warned,
before I saw him; yet it made a deep impression oh
my heart; tears and prayers were my private compa*
niom* But the next day,, I was answered, 4
<Who made
bins a judge. He neither knows thee nor thy forefa­
thers, who walked before me with a perfect and up­
right heart/* Thus the feeling of ney heart was deeply
answered, with further sayings Used by him, which dt
present I shall not mention.
We will dilate on the very valuable productions of thhs
recondite Joanna; by which the reader will very ebon be
Convinced of the temper and the abilities of this obscure
denunciattig paragon against all 'but her equally-daru
kancd.subscrih e r s ■
■ \
“ Strange Effects of Faith, toith remarkable Prophecies
made in 1792, 8fc.”
<
* Soon after this, I went to St; Pefcert Cathedral,
(Exeter) and heard the Rev« * Mr. ; whose text
♦ " The names a&ove and hereafter represented by rules, are
omitted, by the printer, who scrupled to insert them, hot
having the licence of the persons nlfaded to.v
Digitized by C . o o Q l e
to HISTORY OF ltfcLIGIOUS IMPOSTURES,
was,' Walkyc in the tight, whileye have light, lest darkness
come upon you. He remarked on the neighbouring na~
tions abroad, and on the seven churches of Asia ; made
application to the affairs ofour own land ; and concluded
with the words of Samuel, Yetfor dll this, God will save
you, becauseye are his people, ifye obeyhim; if not.......—”
rt— As soon as his sermon* was over, 1 was answered,
*' Thou must say onto him, as our Saviour said unto 'Pe-
ter, “ Blessed art thou, Barjonah—for flesh and blood
hath not revealed it to him, but the Spirit of God. What
he hath this day preached is the will of God. If L* give
it up, go to him, [the Preacher} for he will not; for the
laws of the Lord are written in his heart/9• I had been
answered; that the truth of my writings must be brought
to light by one m&n; either by the Rev. Mr. L. or the
%ev. Mr* ... . ■
■ —
, the Preacher abort-mentioned.—
This was at the end of 1703, not long after I had been
with Mr. L. and it was said to me, “ I shall set signs be*
fore thee. He that bringeth to light shall come unto
£{iee; for that shall be the sign unto thee, my servant.
He shall come; for I will so incline his heart, that my
will may be done/9 But I was not to write to Mr. ■ ■—■
the Preacher, till Mr. L. gave it up. I told my friends
of the signs; but bound them to secresy, that no one
might be any way influenced by my writing.
The next summer, 1794, corn grew dear, and dis­
tress began in our land. Thus commenced the shadow of
m y writings, and I was told the substance was behind—
I then sent another letter to. Mr. L*; but heVas not so
confident as in 1793. He wrote tome as follows: “ The
Lord may hare revealed to you what he has hot to me;
Digitized by v^oogle
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT. 21
but I am of, opinion with many, we are going to see good
days.” The substance of his letter confounded me, and
made me earnest 'in prayer. I was answered, u He er-
reth injudgment, as wellas stumbleth in visions, tojudge
that the storm is blown over/* 1 took his letter, and the
answer to it, and sealed them up together, thinking time
would shew whose words were most true, those of the
Spirit that visited me, or those of Mr. L. and such as
joined him in opinion. .
“ In 1795., I sent him another letter, telling him that
danger stood still before us, and that the truth of what
1 had written in 1792 was to be proved by twelve men.
Mr. L. wrote me an answer, that he had taken my im­
portant question into consideration; that all were ready
to serve me;, and that the wisest way he could think of
would be to bring the 12 men together the Monday fol~
lowing. Before thisanswer reached me, I was told, that
he had not given it up ; but that.it would not happen
according fto his words. The thoughts of their hearts
were laid open to me, and I was told they proposed this,
in order to convince me of my folly. So I was ordered tp
Write him a short reply, and to go and converse with him;
I was told, that it should be set before me as a sign that
Mr. £. would come to my house, and invite me to his,
where I should meet Mr. L. All this happened accord­
ingly. The week after* it was ^said unto me, If L.
come unto thee, thou hast nothing to fear from him ; but
if thou go unto him, he will surely stumble; for he that
doth obey will come; and when he heareth he will not
coudcunn;
But, O thrice happy is the man;
That doth beginand will goon.
Digitized by Google
8$ HISTORY pf jqtuoipv? impostures.
tTmmsr ^ \ .» 1":i -*--rjT'ir,,U'mww&mmrnmm*****
. ., . Till ey’-ry curtain be.drawn baqfc,
Tp know, and prove, if I do speak.
For happy then shallbe thejdan,
That doth<O
b£yhiscadi;
His talentsEve shall!eoon be ten,
My spirit so shaH fell. ;
Him I’ll impower frpm on high,
My Spirit he shallfeel;
The sinner's hearts he shall awake,
Th* broken heart shall heal”
“ This was spoken before I had seen ]VJr. L, Oh tfie
Monday following, Mr. E* came to my house, and asked
me to come to his. Thither i went* jnet Mr. L.and told
him'what reasons I bad for believing my writings came
from the Lord./ Mr. L. and all who were present heard
me in silence* When 1 had delivered my reasons, I hsW
ed his judgment. He said/ “ What you know not now
you will hereafter. If ft be of God, we shall see more
of it ; if of yourself, your head is wiser than mine.” t
asked him, if he would give up inquiry ipto its truth.—
He said, 9
1 No; iy
t requires time to consider of it.” The
Monday fbllowingT asked Mr. and Mrs. L. to breakfast
at my house, but they did not come- That day .1 was
answered thus:
*’ > , • . ■ •' ■
“ him plain, he’a net the man; j
For *tis by------- — it musf be done;
Back to the Church the standard all must come:
Wr in the altar I was seen at first,
And in the akar did the glory burst*
Where Simeon did the holy child behold?
And in the alfer are the plates ofgold.”
“ The week following Mr. L, sent m ean answer, that
he had given it up, and had resigned to the Minister,
’ . j s.h/: •
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
w
JOANNA S O tftfc o frt. H
Who (as l said) Was chosen in his room. This was at the
close of summer, 1795, At the end of the year J was to
have together six men of the disseritrhg class, to try their
judgment. Four refused to attetod, as they thought it
from the Befrtl, or judged me to be both a knave and a
fool. So I had other four in theft room1
; but was told, be*
fore I met them,’ that their judgement would not bo
fight, their'wisdom Was too weak ; therefore I must be *
£he,judge myself;
If they believe that hell below
Such languagee’ercan speak;
Put back their footsteps allwill trace,
And marvel what they’vedbne;
And wonder that they could not go :
In thjngs that wereso plain.
" I was ordered to meet the six men, and read to fhttti
how some particular chapters of the Bible were explained,
with a fevr prophecies, and some remarkable instance* of
niy life. £vefy man was to keep silence for the space of
an hour. This they did; and great is the mystery ex*
plained to me, a* the watch Was laid On the seals, by
which were inclosed the names of the tvVelve men. When
the hour Was past, I demanded their judgement:; and
quitted the room while they consulted. In some time
they came to me, saying, they had agreed, and must see
the pfbphecies: I said they should, if they judged them
to be of God. They came again, saying, they must know
who*the'minister* WOre. A third time they came, and
skid, theymu&t break the seals on the minister’s names.
I told them that should only be donb in presence of the
twelve* tHeol$blf&. But curiosity made thbrii break the
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
5 4 HISTORY OP RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES,
seals; and (thus breaking all their wisdom) they said it
was from the Devil, or myself, or they could not perceive
it to be of God 5 and therefore they persuaded me to give
it up, forgetting what I had read to them* and that they
had fulfilled my writings. The meaning and mystery of
this meeting I shall explain another time*
“ Ne*t day I was persuaded to yield to their wisdom $
but } was answered, that it should be fatal for mo? for
the Lord would not resign to their wisdom ; therefore I
should not give it up to them* Thus I ended with the
dissenting line.
“ At the end of 1*795, and beginning of 1796, I was or­
dered to write to*the Church Ministers. At the time of
the general fast* I sent a letter to the Rev. Mr. — -(the
preacher before alluded to) on the Gospel, Suppose ye,
that those Ctalileans weresinners above all the Galileans, be­
cause they suffered these things1 The Rev* Gentleman
sent me word by the bearer, that he would send an an­
swer by his servant. 1 waited nearly a week* and did
not hear from him. One day I was above stairs writing)
and the last words l wrote were, “ Go down and see him.”
1 went down and found him inquiring about me* I asked
him to walk in, and said, “ I suppose, Sir, my letter hath
surprised you.’* He asked, " Was it you that sent it ??
1 told him, Yes, with my reasons ; and t^at Mr. L. had
judged it from the Devil, The Rev* Gentleman said,
that nothing of what I had said to him appeared likely to
have come from the Devil. As to the dangers which I
had said stood before us, he did not seem to doubt them,
bat said; if I was called of God, I ought to. warn the pub?
lie before the rod fell, as it would be of no use afterwards.
Digitized by Google
J o a n n a s o u t h c o t t * 2§
f2SS5S5E5S3S55S35Ei^Z5^252E3SE^S5SS23ESa^52EES^SS5S5SSSSSSE3SSr
Thus finding the Rev. Gentleman’s conversation corres­
pond with what I had been foretold years before, I sent
him a letter*
“ My faith grew strong; and I sent a letter (as t
was ordered) to the Rev* Dignitary of the Cathedral o f
Exeter. 1 was assured before I sent it, he would not
answer, it.
“ I dreamt soon after, that I was in a room with a
well-looking gentleman and lady. On a sudden, the
door was burst open, and the devil entered in disguise,
and attempted to Seize the gentleman, who fled to the
farthest part of the room*. The devil pursued him, enr
deavouring to put his arm round his neck ; but the gen­
tleman pushed him off. The lady and myself were aT
*
frighted, and 1 awoke. The next day, it was answered
m e, “ It is the Christian minister; he will come to tbee
in disguise*” I said to a person, “ How differently if
m y dream explained to what 1 expected !9
' I thought
the above-mentioned reverend Gentleman Satan would
tr^ to deceive ; and 1 was answered—
*
* Thy thought of is not wrong;
For Satan will try there;
But to the purpose be will dome,
And baffle all his snares:
▲s thou didst dream he pushed him o $
He Satan will defy.
He will appear, the truth to clear,
And stedfast be will stand.
Be not surpris’d at the disguise,
That he may take in band.
So now I bid thee go to home,
And shew thy writing there;
And, sudden as thy garden dream,
' FU make him to appear.”
B
Digitized by
HISTORf h f REtl'ciOUS IMPOSTURES. (
w The last'thirig Thad written was, that I should see
nim the next day.*' Being then at work, Mrs^ T. sen£
me word a gentleman desired to speak with me., Kte
W^s displeksed, and said, a man had been at his Bouse,
iihdf tbld himfhad prophesied lies : that, if it were so.
It Could not eofne from God ; and I was committing the
'sin against the Holy Ghost, and he doubted not Tshould
fose my senses. Mrs. T. said, she knew not of any lies
I had prophesied; but she knew that I had told of
them; He said/^that was very surprising. £>uch had
Seen their conversation before t came. M ien 1 came,
I foond it to be the Rev. Mr; ■ . . whom I ex­
pected, ancfhe repeated his words,to me. I (
told him he
Rad been misinformed as to the sen$e of my woMs,,an<^
Explained particulars to himl fie said, /* I'H^n, your
prophecies were not'false ;*
* yet h,e reasoned with! me
bn the danger o^ my proceedings if 1 were not called
bf (Jod. LFinding (he could not convince me it was hot
bf the Lord, fee said, “ Then Why don’t you have your
writings proved } You will waft till you bring the
swoftf, the jflafgue, and the ftmiflfO, upoh us. If yon
cannot get twelve, get six,. I wj)l me^t^with any.**
I said, tc Sir, it must be twelve*” Hfc&ard, Then let
it be tw^lVekiuib do not wait till you1 brihg the sword
upon us." I said. I would not, if the minsters would .
prove them.—I was convinced thatJin had disguised his
real sentiments, ^and .had thns ipiioiprused to examine ray
fvritings, thinking' to convince me of my folly.
• u S 'f ■. ■
1 :
* So, thou see*st plain,- that lie didmean
To ’stay thy Written hand:
To please a fool, he'd huger rule,
Till he could all command.
Digitized by Google
That is to see the mystery, „ l
{ And then convince the whole, ■. r*
It was to lay thy follies by,
Made him the cause uphold.* ' 1
. 1 : * ' - ' • • *
; “ As these words were revealed to mev l.adtnm db
his%
wUdom> patience, and prudence; and thought
Heaven could not direct me to a wiser or better minister;
for he that can compier his own passions Ts' a greater
hero than* him who taketh a city. He must be a good
man that can so condescend to convince ft fool of her
folly. But he knew not my strong reasons'ipr judging
my writings to be of t£od.
“ The May following, two things happened, as had
been predicted. 1 went to the above minister's house,
and put a letter into his hand, saying, “ #ir, as you
doubt what Spirit I km led by, be pleased1to keep this
letter till the end of the year; you wilfl tbeh judge of
its truth/’ This he consented to do. At the end of the
year 1796, wbat I had written of came iio pas?. He
then said to me, u Sonnerty, if it Were asked of a
prophet, how the wars would tend, h$ coujd tell you.
Now if you can inform pp>
eof wh# wifUibflgpen in Italy
or England, J shall believe you.’—The next day I was
feaWtefcUn prayer, that the L^dW oold auswer hlsilin-
ijoiries; afnd they wete fcov I scat hfoto the arts***,
which was complete^ fulfilled, as to Itoly afcdEnglandi
in l79V ; but kk*’three sh m s of Wtftijfrg, which I g ta i
fcfftii foretold -affaits for yearn to Como, and ppoktt krifich
of the prsfeeiW
: period. ' *
• , <
:• ' '* « - *-w
’* The followingspring; 1797, I teat** letter to * staff*!
IfcgmtaFv of the f ilte r Cathedral. ' <!fyi M iW iiQ f
40AJW A $0IMTHCOT'TV * * i* 2T -
Digitized by Google
WTSTOtY OP RIUOlOUS IMPOSTUXES.
to
turned it to me, saying his master would not be if»
Exeter to receive it til) the next week. I then sent
it again, and met the like disappointment; but the letter
was left. { was now answered, that I should have the
same dissatisfaction when he came to Exeier, and that
both Dignitaries would treat my letters with contempt,
u Thus both will thee deceive,
But shall they laugh thee unto shame,
for what thou dost believe?
If they agree to laughat thee,
Their laughter I shall turn;
And in the end, thou’lt find these men,
lake thee, will sorely mourn.
Thou build’8
t so high, that none can fly,
To rob thee of thy brood.
The fowler’s net cannot come nigh;
Nor can the shooter’s load.
Tho’ heavy charges men prepare,
And point them from their breast;
They are afraid to let them off,
Lest they their aim should miss.
Besides they fear, 1 may be there;
And terror stops the blow;
Thus I thee guard from every snare,
And that they all shall know.”
'* In this manner from simple types and shadows^ I
was foretold bow every man would act; and that I
bad' nothing tp fear, as no man would hurt me, if the
troth of my writings should provoke them to anger.
$*These promises, and the proofs of the truth of my
writings, strengthened my confidence in the Lord a
but 1 have often marvelled, why 1 was ordered to send
to Ministerswhowould not give themselves the trouble
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SO U TH chtT#"
m
of searching out the 'truth ; and, for this reason, have
often doubted whether the calling were of God, or not.
Put the pondering.of my~heart was thus answered:
“ How can the fruit be ever try’d?
How can th$ truth be e’er applied?
The godly men will so decay,
If I shall prove as weak as thee.
I say, the fruit shall surely fall r
Let ********stand, and hear his call; —
~
And now a Moses let bira be, 4
Or else myjudgments all shall see;
Then all together you may ffeast
And all together fest; . ^ {
I’ll bring a mystery in the end,
That shall for ever last.”
“ These words were delivered to tpe in 1796, in aa*
swer to a sermon, preached on the 29th of May, by
the first mentioned Dignitary, to whom 1 had sent a
letter. I fancied that he reproached me in his ser*
.jnon; and his words pietced my heart. I marvelled,
that a Gentleman, to whom I had appealed, should
decline seeing me to convince me of my error, if I were i
wrong; and in solitary tears, I repeated the words of
David,
“ Since godly men decay, O Lord,
Do thou my cause defend;
For scarce these wretched times aflbrd
Onejust and faithful friend.”*
*
** I was answered :
' .
. . : .<
»
“ Since godly men do so decay, , 7
And thou dost sore complain,
Then the good shepherd shall appear, 1
The sheep for to,redeem;
Digitized by Google
50 HISTORY- o r klLICIOV* IMPOSTURES*
jfor&itbfyllabourers now shall come
And iu my vineyard go;
> 5fy harvest it is hastening on, •
WhichwVerysoul shall know/1
f\ ' \
After this, H was said to me, MAs men increase
thy sorrows, I will increase theirs: and the general
burden shall increase^ till men take the load from thee.’’
—Yet I marv£tt»d,ihMv the 12th chapter of Revelation
could be fulfilled, of the woman travailing in birth,
and longing to be delivered ? but the wonder* Johnsaw
in heaven must take place on earth.
4
4What wonders there would then appear
. „ . To.an enlighten’d race,
.1 When every mystery is made clear,
Andseen without a glass?.
* * No veil between then being seen*
No wonders you’d behold;
l i r all alike is clearly bright,
As pearly streets with gold*
Should wonders there to you appear,
' ‘ You’d wonder then of all.
lb see them clothed with the sun,
Could wonder none at all.”
N t.’
t O .•
49Such is the mystery to man—(that a woman should be
clothed with the Son bf Righteousness, who is now com*
ing with healing in hli wings)—because they know not
thb Scriptures, which indicate, that to fulfill all righter
pusness, the woman must be a helpmate to man, to com­
plete his happiness. This men marvel at,, because they
never conceived' what tbe Lord hath in store for them,
in fulfilling his prouiif* givnq to tke woman.
Digitized by v ^ o o s l e
jOinNA southcoTt ; »i
n*
"So men,I see, do st*ttdlnwond$r,
While angels also gaze;
Satan broke man'sbliss asundet; *
Man wandereth in a male.
So, with amaze, youall maygez&T
The angels wonder here.
You cannot see the mystery,
Nor find the Bibleclear.
, There Eden*s tree you shall see
Preserved for your sake ;
The flaming sword is God'sown word) *
'Twill break the serpent’s neck.’’ ;t
“ Thus,fby types, shadows, dreams, and visions* | have
been led on, from 1792, to the present day wbaroby
the mysteries of the Bible, vrith that futuredpetiniesg f
^nations, have been revealed tome, which will all; term**
Data in the Second Coming of Christy and1 the day cf
Judgment, when the seven thoosand yeatraare endo<jUv t
" Now, should men say, .aU.th&by thesisdone^ t ~
Thy head is wiser than each mortal’s son. _ v
And if they say it cometh from the Devil,
Then plainly tell them, that their faults are evil
, . Star Satan’s wisdom never lay so deep; ( ;
Yet to thyself thou must the secret keep. , j
Butif men say, it cometh from on high,
Myjudges shall appear, the truth to try.
Then in thy faith be stedfast still, .•
With salt be reason’d weU. '•••/■
>
Remember thy baptismal vow,
, And triumph over hell.
Your Captain too shall quickly com
e
And bring all to an end, ;
And fin his glorious Empire o’er
The wise, whose hearts will bend.
As in a humble manger here,
Kings did their Sovereignsee,
So my low handpaaiddoth appear
To all a mystery.
; ' m
. <
i i)uiOW
Digitized by Google
$ 2 HISTORY CP RE1 IGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
Now*can you longer make dispute,
From whenceyou hear the sound ?
Thus 6&tan must henceforth be mutt,
Nor talk the faithful down.
The reasons ail are none at at(
Of those that won’t believe:
Thus when the Bible forth I calf,
What answer will you give V9
If our 'readers can bear much more of Joanna’s lucu­
brations upon her Exeter mission, we will recommend to
their attention the following
“ I omitted to mention, in the proper place* that, at
the endof 1794,1 had a strange vision.—
-Assoon as I had
laid down in my bed, a light came over the room. I
iooked at the window; but saw no light proceed from
thence. I looked at the door, to see if any one was en»
tering with a candle; but nb person was there. The
room now appeared to me to be full of lighted candles,
banging, in candlesticks, on lines crossing the room. I
covered my head with the bed-clothes, and then saw a
spacious room, with a chandelier of many brandies, and
lighted lamps sparkling with great lustre. In the midat
of the room stood a large table, with large lighted can­
dles thereon, so that the light equalled the noon-day. I
exclaimed, *What can this mean i9 I was answered,
9
9Arise and shine, for the light is come, and the glory
of the Lord is risen.”
99 The next day (being perfectly awake) I was order­
ed to write down my vision, which wasthus explained to
m e ‘That my writings must be proved by twelve
men; and, when met for that purpose, that the candle
Would burn brightly among them, and the spirit of wis-
Digitized by G o o g l e
-------------------5
---i--------— ---—
dom and understanding be given them ; for as the day
of Pentecost,was to disciples, so should.that'day be
to them ; and every one present should" see it was the
Lord’s doing/ The names of the appointed twelve 1
put into the hands of one of the six persons meritioned,
and charged them not to break the seals upon them
till the twelvewere assembled. However {asI.sand be­
fore) the watch that was laid on the Seals*wds removed,
and the seals broken thttfugh unbelief; so that darkness
Came npbn the minds of them. Thus is the mystery ex-
plained, that this Oircinnstancfe is set as a watch before
mankind. ;
. '‘The harvest of 1796 was remarkably good, and
great plenty followed; And it was said unto me; ‘ A t
they (the men mentioned) kept silence for the space
ofonehonr,the Lord has withheld the rain in trttie of
harvest/ , , •.« ; \ r
“ Now, if this publication awakens the Ministers to
search out the truth, or the Rev. Mr^— (the
preacher) return to the examination of my writings, tho
next three'following harvests are promised to be pentiful.
*
?Prpve me now, (saith the Lord,) and try me,- if I will
not shower down hlessings upon you/ But, if the many
truths laid before you; with the threatening* put into the
hands of Ministers, do not awaken them to search out the
truth, the Lord will fulfil his word. :
x u if by the wise men I am mock'd now,
Like fterod^s fury, Til fulfil my vow. r T
-‘*‘
Whomy anger shall appease, ‘
, If all deny my will? >
Mythunderbolts shall loudly roll,
And men’s proud hearts shall chill/
; f 1
-JOANNA SOUTHCOTi 1
. 3 4
Digitized by Google
Mr HISTORY OF REWOlOl?S 1
MFOSTURES. '
“ Now, lot the reader look deep into the mystery* and
behold what Divine Wisdom bath directed me to show
to m a n k in d * I was foretold how Ministers would act,
and that the truth would be brought to light by one
man* I was now ordered to have my writings copied,
and put into the Printer's hand* This I did; and ther
veity .dey I had given them to the Printer* the chosen
Minister returned to Exeter* I thought I would not tend
to him till the bpok Was printed ; but was answered*
!:How weak is thy judgment!' and wasordered to send
fo him next day*. 1 found he was ofifeaded by my put­
ting his name in the newspaper* He said, if I published
hi* natoe,' he had done with me; otherwise he would
comply with my request* Two friends of mine wreta
to him, of the truth of my writings; and* athie request,
{.waited on him with one of my Friends* ' Her said, he
found argument fruitless, in persuading me to step my
band* and should argue with me no mprt* He bade tne
got tb* writings of 179.2 copied out* as he could not sat
the original* before Ministers* who would not attend to
itutoctfcript* which they could not read ; and they Would
dot trust to,what I should read to them. Therefore, he
bade me open the seals on the writings of 1792* and send
them with the fair copy; and if the Ministers he con*
•tilted should judge them to be of God, I might have
t.velve or fourteen afterwards*
t€ When I returned home, I was ordered to follow his
advice, remembering what had been told me in 1793,
“ I will direct thee to a man* whose talents are greater
than thine; he shall have five talents; he shall direct
thee." So 1 had my writings broken open before wit­
nesses, marked* copied, and some part sent to him*
Digitized
d by Google
JOAN*A SOUTHCOTT, 35
Tbo week after I wanted oh him again. He said,
what I bad sent was not enough to convince Ministers,
and I must open the seals set in 1794 and 1795. The
nest day (Sunday) I was ordered to' have them opened
in the presence oftwelve witnesses, who were to Set their
names on them. Three weeks were then allowed him,
to.examine, to consult Ministers, and to judge whether
the writings were of God or not.
4‘ Soon after* I was ordered to write to three Ministers,
(the letters will be hereafter given,) and 1 was told it
would be fatal for me, for time and eternity, if I did not
publish my writings, should these Ministers remain si*
lent seven days after. It was said to me, ■
'I do not need
the Ministers to prove whether they be of God or not;
for that shall be proved by thfe truth. But this I com­
mand thee to do, to keep thee from the snares of men,
who may charge and condemn thee for imposture; say*
ing, thou hast signed thy name to what thou hast not writ­
ten. I have so ordered every truth to be made plain*
that no man can prove one false report in thy writings, or
dispute what spirit inspires thee. Thy writings must be
submitted to the judgement of learned Ministers of my
word. Let them be disputed before they be proved ;
let Ministers be the judges, and common men the wit­
nesses end jury, to try the truth of this .ordination. AU
thou hast done* and all the letters thou hast sent, have
proceeded—Readers, pray attend to the profaneness
which follows in the words of ibis'miserable visionary !
—from the command of the King of Kings^ the Lord
p f Lords, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace,
the Mighty Counsellor** and the Desire of every nation/
Digitized by Google
3$ HISTORY OF RELIGIOUS IJjlPOSTURKS.
tei|>
€i When I sent the letters to Ministers, it was said tor
me., that if thesp things were not of Gpd, tbeir hearts
should be worked on to stop my hand in seven days ; and
if they did not* I should wait, no longer than New Year?*
Day (Old Style) 1601, and then have it printed, to be
judged of by the world at large, to try the wisdom o f 4
men, and to let them see what wisdom there is in the
Lord, of whom it is written in the Psalms,
God in the great assembly stands*
Where his impartial eye
Jn state surveys the earthly gods,
And doth theirjudgements try."
Kew-Year’s Day arriving, and the Ministers to whom J
wrote remaining silent, I consider their silence $s evi­
dence, that they cannot prove what 1 said not to be fr$m
the Lord, and haye therefore published as J was greeted/’
“ The following'is a copy of the letter I sent to the
‘
Rev. Mr. - ■
■
■
—■ at Heavitree:— , •
*Sir,—I have sent you many letters* wherein you have
kept silence, as being at a loss from what hand they were
indited. You judged it strange, Sir, the Lord should re­
veal his secrets to a woman; but when you come to the
' knowledge of your Bible, you will not judge it strange at
all. You first judged it came from the wis^pm of niaa;
artel therein you erred as much as the former; for was
every man on earth a Solomon for wisdom, they could
not bring rpund such a mystery as is in my writings, and
make every truth agree. If there ever was so much wis­
dom in man, he must be a fool to give the praise to anoir.
ther, and hot take to himself the merit due to himse^f.~
Now I shall come to the purpose. The century, is endecU
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
JOANNA SOUfBCOTT. 37
ike seals are cut open in -the presence of*six witnesses)
{whatwas written in 1702) and marked out, and copied!
What was written in 1794, till 1795 and *17^7, and nailed
np in a box, is broken open in the preseoce of twelve
witnesses $ and they h.ave signed their names to all the .
writings; so that, if the originals be demanded, no man
can be deceived. Some of them were copied out, and
sent to the Rev. Mr, — So here the century ends
with men. If those*Ministers that j have written to do
not go to Mr. — - before the year ends to the old stylo,
and prove these writingsare pot from the Lord, their si­
lence gives consent that it is of pod, and they will be
made public. The £.ord was but seven days makidg the
world, and .rested bn one of them; and he will fellow1no
longer for man than seven days to judge jof hi£ works*
so 1 am compelled to warn you all, What yon ddyou most
do quickly; or forever after,hold your toogues. When
you hear me make public to the world tbat it is the*. • >
*.a Iam sorrymy intentions cannot be fulfilled, by giving to
.^hepublic ip print the whole contents of the above, and of
other letters hereafter. The Printer declines Copying them
fully. He tells me, thatj however perfect my conviction may
be, that what I have written is of God, and howeverstrong my
'resolution may be to hazard all consequences jn its publication,
yet he has received no supernatural instructions, and therefore
feels not, in this case, any degree of the spirit of martyrdom
within him ; for which reason he chooses to decline giving any
person the powerofmaking this publication a handle for vent­
ing the ill-humour of political disappointment upon him.—
.This part of my writings, however, he has perused; and pro­
mises, ifhe finds them*fulfilled, to bear impartial testimony to
*heir veradty/’ • -
Digitized by Google
* s
' ■ f >, rr" ’~r " "
■ "" "■
. HISTORY. f£>F RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
# 4 .4 '♦ • 4 ♦ * • •f
c k '• *• • • • •»'
that are bringing down the judgments of God • * ♦
«
*, m • • , • • . • ,• 0 .pi V '4 ■, • 9 ■
• ■
•• 0 ■0 • ’ •
and they .will bring the , • • , . . , , . . v
Upon themselves**— -New, if any Ministers that 1 hare
writieu to can deny the truth of the$e things* let them
bring forth their arguments* and shew their strong rea­
sons ; or let them be silent before the Lord, and say we
cannot answer thee one word of a thousand in all the let*
Sens thou hast sent us. For, be it known unto you, and
Soail men* it is the Lord's doing, however marvellous it
may appear in your eye*. My wiitingsare in the hands
of*Mr. «»» «—, thafyonhre to judge, if you think prce
per* lathe tins#! have mentioned* I will give it np to
s>o man's judgment after the seven days a r e .expired,
but shall publish them as } have said* | have under­
standing as wed ns yon all, neither am I a whit behind
you;* but yshave all been jipdges of what ye know no?
thing about. I am clear from the blood of ail men ; and
$m, with the greatest respect, your humble servant,
J oanna SoUTHCOtT/
The following is a copy of a letter sent to one of the
Dignitaries of the {^thedral of Exeter
•Jan, 4, 1801f
f R et. Sir,
f I beg liberty to say unto you, (as the Voice
said unto $>aulf] Wfy pcrsccutest tfiou mt t It it hardfor
thee, Q Paul* to kmk against ike prick** And it is hard
for you, Sir, to fight against God, through unbelief.—
You have done it, till almost a • • . is come on the poor;
and if you continue, you will bfing the • ♦ * mi tfecrich j
Digitized by Google V
. I JOANNA SOVTHCOTT. n
for you will purely find, Sir, you have a Qoi to deal with,
and not (as you suppose) a simple worqan, whose .senses
are gone you know not where. I grant, they are gone,
out of the reach of man, while you judge through a glass
darkly; but you must judge face to fitoe, Sir, if you will
he a judge for yourself, unto whom you have done defe
pite ; either to the spirit of the Lord or me. Ifitw a*
to me, I would never trouble your Honour with this let*
tor; formy spirit is too great to be treated with contempt..
as yey have done it to the Lord, f am ordered to:
warn you {a his name. The time-ofignorance God wink-
exh a t; but now you have no clohe fog yourself, if yog
shut your eyes against the day-light,: Tjm letter I sent
you in 1799, of the harvest, I had copied out and sent
to the Rev. Mr. v t ; Both harvests came as I foretold*
M r.-------disputed with me, if my foreknowledge did
not come of mys&tf, and desired me to com? to the pur-
pose of what I wrote in 1792 %so I opened my sealp in
the presence of witnesses, and bad all my writings mark*:
ed in the presence of twelve witnessed (what I wroto in
1794, and 1795, and 1793, and 1792,) and had part of
them copied out and sent to Mr* — four him to con*
suk with Ministers fcam what spirit theyjudged it came*
from the,spirit of the Lord, or the powers of darkne94> i*
I shall not blush to say, that man is void of understand*
ipg, thpt say.« it. is from myself. But now, Sir, I must
cpme. to. the purpose. .The writings I have.sent to the
Rev, Mr. ——, if they ate not proved by Ministers be*
fere the year is out by the. old style, that they ore of
God* they wtU be published; that.they ar^of.God, the.
Minatem’siieao* g*r*aconsent, The * - ^ , ♦ .
Digitized by Google
46 HISTORY 0 * RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
~ — -------------------- ------------- ----
bringing downthe judgments of God upon . . . •
• and the Lord"
is just to send the . • . . on them. I was ordered^
to send this to you, Sir, that yon may judge for yourself/
in seven days. What I say unto you I say unto the Rev*
•i— — . You are both at liberty to judge for your*
selves, and if you prove the writings are not of God in
the space of seven days, I will give it up to you; but if
you now keep silence, I am the judge myself, and I shall
have them published, as I am directed. They are in the
hands of Mr. ■
■
■
■
»
» If you think proper to judge
them before the time, you are at liberty, or for ever aP*
ter keep silence. I am, with the greatest respect, your
most humble servant,
, J o a n n a S o u t h c o t t .*
Here I add a third letter.
*To theRev. Mr.......... , Exeter.
9Rev. Sir,—You may be surprised to receive a letter
fromi a woman, of prophecies, to appeal to your judg^
ment. Sir, now it is come to the eleventh hour. Strange
as it may appear to you, I am ordered to proceed. You
preached a sermon in praise of the King; and I have his
interest as much at heart as you have. My earnest pray*
eris for him, that the Lord will protect him through life,
as being surrounded with so many enemies. I do not
toy any thing to the King; but'those • • • • • •
This was my prophecies for years agone—
-there first
would come an Egypt's . . . ; « and after that an
Egypt's • . • . . But now I must come to the prow
pose, I was called by the voice from, heaven in 1792, n
Digitized by Google
J o a n n a s o u T tfc o tT . 4!
what was coming upon the earth. lobeyed the sum*
moos, and have been writing ever since what the Lord
would do upon the earth; And this hath been sealed up
every year; and now the ceptury is ended with men ;
and by the old style it will end with the Lord. My seals
have been opened in the presence of twelve witnesses*
and marked, and copied out* and sent to the Rev. Mr.
' , for him to consult with* Ministers from what
spirit they judged it came. Now, Sir, I was ordered to
write to you, the bringing
down the judgments of God on the food* as you find in
my prophecies. And this lam going to publish to the
World, unless the Ministers that I have written to meet
together, and prove the writings are not of God, in the
spice Ofseven days, which ends with the New Year**
Day to old style. If they can prove that I am wrong by
that time, 1 will give up to their wisdom ; but not after
to anyone’sjudgment, till I see the end of another year:
for-the Lord will begin with a new century ; and I will
seetohat he will do, before Twill hearken to any man's
judgment. Now, Sir, if you are as great a friend to your
King and Country as you preached, you will diligently a
search out the truth of these things; but you have no
longer than New Year's Day to the old style. I am, with
the greatest respect, your humble servant,
‘ J a n /5, 1801. J oanna Southco*t.'
.To enumerate the various motives to deceit and injury
Would be to count all the desires that prevail among the
sons of men ; since there is no ambition, however petty,
no wish, ‘however absurd, that by indulgence w ill not
*
... Digitized by Google
42 HISTORY OF RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES*
be enabled to overpower the influence of virtue*—
This seemed to be the case of Joanna; She obtruded
herself upon the world, with all the Confidence of a
Spirit: Which scorned acquaintance even with superi?
ority; Consequebtly, possessing a mind irritated by op-
position, abounding in fraud, End fulminating 'curses
against all ,Who contemned heriniqtiity, and had too
great consideration of real religion and moral virtue,
to lend themselves to the contagion of crime among their
unsuspecting fellow-creatures.
From what has preceded, it may be perceived, that
we would, in charity, impute the Whole of Joanna's
wanderings to the imaginations of an afflicted spirit*
and, in th6 hope that her disarrangement having sub*
sided, she Alight be restored to society, and, toy de­
claring and' retracting her gross errors, cause soma
amends to be made to those, who had been weak
enough to be misguided by hfer profane rhapsodies. We
might have been induced, under such circumstances, to
rheede from personalities to her; 'butstick most tint be
the case towards her crafty adherents* Their civctim-
’stances have no excuse; their falsehoods and wrongs
, to society must be exposed to be reprobated 5 and as
they ,havfe presumed to make Joanna's opihkras tbe vet
hide to increase their trade k>f deceit, it must be those
opinions, and the impressions intended by their cirtu-
Jation, to disseminate despair and to establish ruinous
coateitifcions^ that shall engage owr afiore particular dt-
ieatton ; these are fair <
objects of discussrioui add bfaall
iwtescapestiitture* .. •*
We wiUnrtutaon ably one circumstance, lin'suppoft
Digitized by v ^ i O O Q l e
JOANNA SOOTHCOVf< 43
■ m m m m m m a m a m s a m a B s s s s s a B a B s m m m m tm B a m m S S S S rn
of one premises. In the Times of the 10th of Septem­
ber* 1814, is the following paragraph : *
*J oanna SouthT
-
c o t t . It is stated of one of the betiem s in this poor
w<man's pretensions, named Edward Penny, who was
a respectable yeoman at lnglebourn, near Totness,
that he had a small freehold of his pwr^ inde­
pendent of a large farm he rented^ and was doing
we 1, when, becoming a follower of this wpman, he
put such implicit faith in her predictions, (.that in the
ensuing year there would be neither earing nor harvest.
As the world was to be destroyed,) that the poor fel­
low thought he would save his seed-wheat, and ab­
solutely let all his land ky idle. When rent-d^y came
he was obliged to part with a proportion of his own
property, to pay the rent of the farm he occupied :
he never recovered the blow, but sunk gradually in
the worlds until obliged to solicit relief from the rigid
band of parochial charity.*
Appealing, then, to the philanthropy of our readers,
whether, in conducting this work, we may not be, in
a great measure, instrumental, with our fellpw labourers
ni the same benevolent cause, in ascertaining the motives
of Joanna's Disciples, by the complete exposure of her
dogmatical absurdities; which, however we may be ip?
duced to pity in kerf we shall think it our boppden
duty to condemn in them ; for they have no affliction
to plead in excuse ; we shall consider their conduct
to abound in the broadest tints of corruption, and as
such, to merit due execration, as aln^ost the murderers of
the minds of their fellow-creatures.
After thus far premising the object of our labour
Digitized by Google
44 HISTORY. *>F RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
we shall proceed in our recital, by stating, that Joanna*s
spirit still aspired beyond coqunon comprehension, and
the underwritten are some of its ebullitions.
* These are thefirst of the writings made in 179Q.
4The Reader will observe, that the following is printed
word for word accordiqg to the original. Worldly-
minded Critics may cavil at the language ; hut I have
been ordered thus to give it the world, *to try the
heads of the learned.* The Lord hath spoken to men9
as men: and I am only permitted to allow the printer
to omit such parts, as ( thro1fear of man's angerJ he
may he unwilling to insert.
4 Quench not the spirit; despise not prophecy; for
the time is come, that your women shall prophecy,
young men shall dream dreams, your old men shall see
visions; for the-day of the Lord is at hand. The day*
is nigh at hand, that shall burn like an oven; and a|l
the wipked shall be burnt up. as stubble; whose fan is in
bis hand: I will thoroughly purge the floor; I will
gather my wheat into his garner, and burn up the chaff
with unquenchable tire. Awake them that sleep; arise
from the dead, and Christ will give them life.9„
4This I have penned, as the Lord hath directed iwp;
for there is none holy as the JLord, neither is there
any rock like our God.’
We discover that this poor creature mingled various
portions from the sacred Scriptures, which she had for~
merly imbibed in her former religious acquaintance.
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT, 45
with her own detached <emanations. .The fallowing
will serve as a fair specimen, though clogged by her
silly incoherent poetry : . ,
"Talk no niprc sq proudly; let not arrogancy ooipe
out of your mouth; for the Lord is a God of know-
ledge, and by him actions are weighed* . The bows o€
the mighty are broken, and they that stumble are girt
with strength, The wisdom of the Lord is hid in ..the
great deep, and his paths are past findjng out.; for
the wisdom of God is foolishness with men, and.the
wisdom of men js foolishn^ with God, Are your ways
equal or mine unequal, O house of Israel? Judge, yes
are not my ways equal ? Are not your ways unequal,
O houseof Israel ? Pear ye the rod, and whorhath ap*
pointed it.
*The time is come, that judgments must at God’s own house
begin,
And, if he first attacks thejust, what case are sinners in} *
If God the righteous,!whom he lov’d, withjustice doth correct,
What rpust t)ie sons qf violence, whomhe abhors, expectV9
9The spirit qf the I^ord is vyith them that fear him*
On that man will I look that is of a meek and con­
trite spirit; he tirembletb at my#word; he committeth
all his ways to the Lprd ; he will direct his goings,
for God is the same God yesterday, to day, and for ever*’
—Joanna proceeds— “ Think not, for yourselves, our
dear Redeemer came into the world to make you
more ignorant than the Jews were* He came to en*
lighten our understandings, and not to darken them*
£ut ye will not come unto him, that he may have life^
Digitized by Google
4* HISTORY. OF RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES*
for at the second coming, he shall scarce find faith on
the earth ; for unleu ye up eigne and wonders, ye will not
believe. Faithless and perverse generation! looking for
signs, and there shall be no signs given you, but the pro­
phecy of the Prophet Jonah: Nineveh shall riu up in judg+
punt against this generationf
“ I shall now proceed to my own experience, which
hath truly convinced me, the Lord is awakened as one
eat of sleep; and the voice of the Lord will shake
terribly the earth,
**The beginning of the powerful visitation of the Itord
SO me was o n . . . . , 1792.— *- I no more intended
thou shouldest go to reprove the people, than I intended
Abraham should offer op his son Isaac. I did h to
try thy obedience. Now will I swear unto thee, as I
did unto Abraham. I will make thee an everlasting
covenant; and save thee with an everlasting salvation** "
*
* When these words came to me, my soul was trog-
bled in the dost before God, and I began to cry out
f What am I, or what is my father's house, that thbn
hast thus honoured me, unworthy wretch as I am ? My
past life makes me ashamed of myself.'— *
“ These words
Came to m e: * 1 will reward thy obedience; and in
blessing I will bless thee: And, as I kept nothingfrom
Abraham, I will keep nothingfrom thee. Thou shatt pro­
phesy in my name ; and I will bear thee witness. Whql /
put in thy mouth, that will l do bn the earth *
4
4Then these words came to me: 4The Lord is awake
is one out of sleep. The voice of the Lord shall shake
terribly the earth. Pestilence andfamine shall go through
the lands, ftfen’s hearts shall fail them fur very trouble ;
Digitized by v ^ - o o Q l e
JOANNA. SOUfttCOTT, 41
because they have not known the visitation of the
Lord.' At toon as these words came to me I trembled*
and was afraid of his majesty and greatness. Tears of
hmtuliatioa ran dbwn my eyes, and a holy fear seiced
my soul. 1 wept bitterly, and wondered at his diving
goodness, to such an unworthy creature .as I was* But
these words were answered me; ' I have seen all thy
enquiries to know my will and obey it $ and now I will
reward thee* Dost thou believe it?’— “ I' cried one
%
‘ Yea, Lord ; if it be tby voice, I do believe i t $ for I
know thou art not a man to lie, nor the son of man to
be havering. I have always found thee a God, like
thysSift faithful to thy word* and faithful to thy pro*
arises.**^*! Was answered, 'D ost thou think 1 will
now}’ I Said, 'Y ea, Lord; if it bo thy word, I know
thou wilt* Thiou hast been fbithful to thy wor4
throughout the Bible, ii every age of the world ; a God,
the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever*' " I was an •
swered, * This thou believelt, and this thou shall find
ihe; faithful to my word, and faithful to my promises
^aud «€art Sunday will I fulfil my promise at my tabic9
-*
"which* I bless God, I felt remarkably, and waited
With a bbiy longing for the blessed promise made by
Jesus Christ* I then made a solemn vow to God, to be
obedient to* all his commands, as far as 1 saw his
righteous wifi concerning me, earnestly praying that
1 might aet he deceived by my own weak understand*
iug, nor deceived by the arts of Satan, praying that
the Lord wdtild kefep me from every evil* and from the
evil of *in‘
j that I may be kept, as Mary, humble at thf
feet q f the iLmdi—l wasanswered, <if pride rise in thy
Digitized by Google
4 1 * HISTORY OP RIL10I0W 8 IMPOSTURES.
hedrt, Satan shall humble thee; but thou sayest* thou
hast found me a God like myself: and so thoUshalt/—*
•‘ I said, ‘ Lord, I believe it; and pray thee* keep me
the remainder of my life* that I may drink deep in the
Sp rit of my dear Redeemer, and, as fq r ai the earthly
tan bear the image of the heavenly sofa r may I hear thy
imaged—This was the prayer and desire of myaoul, that
I may know bis voice and obey it** ■
;
“ One mofning when 1 awoke, these.words were
sounded in my ears: <Wake, ye ministers; mourn, ye
priests; for the day of the Lord is at hand/~~l thought
I heard the sound of preaching in ray ears : 4The Lord
is awake, as one out of sleep; the voice of the Lord will
shake terribly the earth. The sins of the EWorld have
provoked the Lord to anger. He will go foftb.as a
flaming fire ; he will be wrath, as in; the*'valley of
Giheon,* until he hath brought forth judgement unto
victory/
€
€ These words were so dreadful in my ears, that they
made me tremble, and 1 was earnest in prayer to God*
to knbw if these judgments were coming upon the earth.
I was answered, */ will shew thee in visions,'this night,
what I will do* “ I went to bed ; I dreamt nothing, and
thought I had listened to the voice of a stranger, and
not of God/*—“ I was answered, ‘ The night is far
spent; the day is at hand; lay thee down and sleep
’again/— “ So I did, and dreamed <1 .wds.on a high
mountain, and saw the sky as bright as noon day pun,
and two men came out of the clouds, withlohg robes
of purple and scarlet, With crowns of golfLon their
heads and swords in their hands, sUndiUg in the sky,
/
i
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOUTBCOTT. 49
Two men came out with heavy horses, and spoke to
those that stood on the clouds, and soon after rode
away, like lightning, in the air. Soon after I saw"the
menTrn horseback coming out of the clouds, as fast as
they could, till the whole skies were covered with men
in armour, and spears glittering in the air. 1 thought X
looked down, and saw the world in confusion, men in
armour riding fast. This dream alarmed me; and I
was meditating with what divine majesty and splendor
our dear Redeemer was coming intolhe world. Once he
came meek and lowly, persecuted by men ; but now he
will come as a prince and a king, conquering and to
conquer. Once he came meek and lowly, riding on an
ass; but now he will eeme riding in the chariot of his
everlasting Gospel. But who can abide the day of his
coming, or who nan abide the day of his wrath? The
saints shall see it, and rejoice; for he tyill gather the
wheat in the garner, and burn up the chaff with on*
quenchable fire.—Then I was answered this psalm :*
*
■
»
* Ask, and receive thy full demands;
Now shall the heathen be,
The utmost limit of the lands
’
Shall be possess'd by thee.
I'll crush them every where,
As massy bars of iron break
The potter’s brittle ware/
“ This made me earnest in prayer to God, to know if
this was Christ’s second coming into the world, to call
in his antient people, the Jews. 9Is thy last coming when
thou earnest to judge the world in righteousness? 491 was
answered, * Thou hast judged right/ " In prayer and
h
Digitized b
y
Google
5 0 * HISTORY OP RELI6IOU8 IMPOSTURES.
praises I spent the day. In the night in my bed, it was
said to me, "I will shew thee a vision this night, that
shall njake the ears Qf those that hear it to tingle.’ “ I
Trent to bed ; dreamed nothing It was answered, *The
pighJt is far spent j ;cie day is at hand* Lay thee down
to sleep again,’ “ I was restless and uneasy, and did not
believe tin, JLord has it said, and thought it was the
Pevil, to deceive me, and .continjued restless from three
till past five, I then fell asleep, and dreamed I had
someth*ug in my hand. I let it fall, and it turned into
a rupv and whirled up and down the room. At last it
turned into a cat, which 1 kicked to pieces, and grew
angry in my dream, and said, *Satan, this is tby mira­
cles; this js the way tbpu deceiyest the world, by
whirling them in empty air,that neither touch tpp nofbot­
tom.* When l awpke, I was grieved, and afraid 1 had
sinned in going to sleep; but I was answered, it was
jth? Lord’s permission, to shew J, might see Satan's mi­
racles, how he deceived the;wprld« This m ade the
ways of the Lord appear more to be admired; and I
ineditated on my past vision, with what glory I saw the
Lord in the air, and with what swiftness the angels seemed
to obey him. This set all my soul on foe, and I wished I
could fly in the air to the Lord, and fall at the feet of
my dear Redeemer.—A powerful -yojee called me, Jo­
anna, Joanna, the angels rejoiced at thy birth, thy Saviour
pnbraced thee. Dost thou think thou const love him as he
loved' thee?* These words went through my soul, and l
cried out* ‘ No, it is that drawed ipy heart after him iii
strong.faith.
“ I went to. bed, ant} was answered, ‘ I will shew
Digitized by Google
4
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.’ * Si
thee in vision this night/ “ I dreamed I was in an or-
chard where were trees standing together, the branched
were joined one in the other, and the fruit was fallen* I
thought I was going to take them up. I thought the
Lord said to me*' ‘ Open the shells; but thou shalt not
taste of the first fruits; it is not good/ I thought I opened *
the nuts; for they were like French nuts1
, but they were
withered and dry* and a black veil round them. Thd
Lord sard to me, 4The fitat fruits are fallen ; they are
not good. Look up, and ,thou writ see berries; and
when they are ripe they will be good.’ I looked up,
and saw berries like the berries of potatoes*, and went
to a bouse, where 1 saw the Lord. He rose up, as one out
Ofsleep, and told me to go, and mind all I had seen/ I
awaked."
4
4 The same night; I dreamed I was on the sea; and
-I saw a large ovenfu ll of meat; and the stopper broke>arid
the meat swam on the sea in abundance. When I awoke,
I was answered, ‘ Thy dreams puzzle thee; but wars and
tumults shall arise horn abroad and at home/ The sei
shall be laden with ships, many shall break in pieces,
and thousands shall launch in the deep. As to the
dream of the fruit, couldst thou look into the hearts of
men, thou wouldst see them, as the fruit, withered/
4
4 Another night, 1 dreamed I saw my father sweeping
•out the barn floor clean, and would not suffer the wheat
to be brought in the barn. He appeared to me to be
in anger. When I awaked, I was answered, 4It is thy
Heavenly Father is angry with the land ; and if they do
not repent, as Nineveh did, they shall sow; but they
shall not reap; neither shall they gather into their
Digitized by Google
$2 HISTORY OF RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
barns*. There shall come threeyears, wherein there shall be
neither earing nor harvest * ’
Another night it was said unto me, “ I-will shew thee
in dreams of my anger against the nations.** I. dreamed
I had a dish in my hand, with dirt in i t ; and some one
throwed honey over i t ; and the children eat it, for the
sake of the honey, which made me sick. I awoke with
my dream. I was answered, •So sick is the Lord of the
world• They eat the honey and the poison together.*
“ Another night I dreamed I heard heavenly music
sounding in my ears, and a dock of sheep was gathering
round H. When the music ceasedr the sheep leaped for joy,
and ran together, shaking their headsz and one shook Ids
head almost off, and seemed to have nothing* but ears• I
went towards them, and awoke.------1 was answered,
*The sheep were the servants of the Lord; for they
would be convinced, and trust no more their own un­
derstanding, but be all ears, to hear what the Lord saith/
Another night I dreamed I had a large bird, full of
large feathers of brass gilded ; and the bird flew down
on the room where I was. 1 thought to pluck some of
the feathers, but found it impossible to pluck one, or
break one* I could not think there was any interpreta*
tion of this dream; but 1 was answered, ‘ It is the deter*
mined will of the Lord, that cannot be altered, nor will
he be pacified without repentance/ I thought with my­
* This book has been commanded to be printed like th e
original, w it h o u t a l t e r a t io n s , except in th e second page,
which was a blank leaf, wherein communication has been ad­
ded, which is to be read after the abpve.
\
Digitized by G o o g l e
JOANNA* SOUTHCdtT. 33
self, why then did I dream I tried to pluck the feathers or
break them ? I was answered, *Thou haft strove to alter
the decrees of Heaven concerning thyself hut to nopurpose,
ThemUqf the Lord must he done in thee, andby thee.* This
my soni would gladly obey.
“ The same night I dreamed 1saw a little bird pecking
the*feathers of the great birds; btot this was not explain*
ed. As I was in earnest prayer to know what all thir
meant, and where it would end, a heavenly joy filled my
soul, as though a company of angels had been singing i»
my ears these words:
*WJiat good news the angels bring 1
What glad tidings of our King!
Christ descending from his throne,
To bring his Father’s glory down.
Saints shall see it and rejoice;
Hell shall tremble at his voice.
Saints rejoice, and sinners fear,
When he brings salvation near
Jews and Gentiles shall agree,
Join in Christian unity.
Heathens, coming from afar,
Worship at the glorious star.
All the earth shall know the Lord,
Andsing his praise with oneaccord.’
“ What follows, concerning the blasphemies of Satan,
was written before the prophecies came to me, with many
more extraordinary things, that I went through, front
Good-Friday to Midsummer.’9
Will our readers, after going through the foregoing
passages, be a moment at a loss to discover the spirit which
unhappily pervaded Joanna’s unconnected intellect ?—•
Digitized by ^ o o Q l e
Should there be any so dubious as to want farther expla*
nations, we would refer them to the prophecies in sacred
writ, and they will soon be convinced of the absurdities 6f
Joanna’s u ovens full of meat floating on the sea!”—her
4t dirt pies !”—her sheep's head shook off by means of
mqsic, and nothing left but his ears !”~dnd a number of
other wanderings equally ridiculous and incredible.
Aware of the apostle Paul's advice, we would be the
last to “ despise prophecyings ;'* but it is Certainly right
to attend to the connecting part of that advice to 44prove
all things/' alffd 44 bold to that which is good." But
have we the smallest encouragement afforded us by Jo­
anna's effervescencies, to believe that the Almighty has
dispensed the gift of prophecy to this woman, equally to
what he did to Ezekiel, Daniel, and other eminent per­
sons, who shone with a divine light above the other sons
of men ? Never! Th'e Lord God Almighty will not
thus be mocked:
u He nods a calm—thetempest blows his wrath!
His thunderis his voice, and the red dash
His speedy swordofjusticeI At his touch
The mountains dame: he shakes the solid earth,
And rocks the nations!-----Nbt inthese alone,
In ev'ry common instanceGOD is seen!”
In figures, consistent with his Divine Majesty, he con­
descended to reveal himself to his prophets; and we do
not find in any part ofthe holy Bible that he ever descend­
ed from himself in any of his revelations. How deroga­
tory then must it be from his greatness, his omnipotence,
to exhibit him to his humble creatures beneath his exalt
£4» HISTORY OP RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES. ^
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT. . 5$
: ' >
v a n B B a i^ s n B B a s B a B a Q f f a a B s ^ S B S s s s s s s s s s ^ i-
pd dignity { W e do not read that either the prophets,
apostles, or the evangelists did so, -and their missions
prospered. The unlimited frenzy of Joanna has unhap*
pily not*done so; the adherents to her for the worst pur­
poses have eneouraged the iniquity, and therefore no
prosperity can result from her assumed mission his pu­
nishment, more probably, may be indicted for such a
high degree of contempt towards his yast benevolence.
The rolling worlds above, the living atoms below, and
all the beings that intervene betwixt those wide extremes,
are vouchers for an ever-present Deity; that he would
take other means to reform mankind than by the ridicu­
lous effluxions of a dreaming insane old woman !
Joanna’s.description of the Devils interruption, during
her abstracted meditations, is truly curious :
4
9As I Was meditating on the unbounded love of
Christ to man, Satan's blasphemybroke in upon me,4Christ’s
lovenwas out. of pride.’ Here my passions grew high:
4Thou devil incarnate, (said I,) thou hast lost thy honour,
and thou enviesttbat Christ hath retained his. That was
wbat cast thee out o f heaven, because thou would’st not
worship him ; and now thou enviest his glory, as thy
proud rebellious spirit would not stoop to worship him*—
But wt/have reason to love him ; we have reason to adore
him. See whathe hath done for us. When thou seekedst
our destruction, how did he leave the heavens above, and
come down in this lower world, to suffer a sorrowful life
and a shamefbl death for our sakes! How did he hum­
ble himself onthe cross to make us happy, when thou,
by thy proud rebellious spirit, sought thy own misery
^nd ours 1 Thy pride isenvy and malice.; but the pride
Digitized by Google
5<5 HISTORY O f RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
J" ~>!■■■==■==»==»
«. ■
' l —
ssssss^ssmms^ssfsammmmt
thou speakest of God and Christ is meekness and humi*
Ik y ; and it is the condescension of God to contain his
honour. When a man hath lost his honour, who will
•trust him ? Thou hast lost thy honour, and none but
fools will trust thee; but Christ contained bis; and every
wise man will go to bim, because be knoweth he will not
deceive him* it is the wisdom of God to contain his ho­
nour, that men may trust in him, and rely on him* It is
for our good ho contains his glory; but thou hast lost thy
honour with £hy shame. Christ js worthy to be loved,
worthy to be adored, worthy to he had in everlasting re­
membrance, and worthy to be honbured ; but thou hast
no honour belonging to thee/ Here Satan c^me in, with
dreadful blasphemy against God and Ghrist* This en­
raged my passions, as I could not bear to hear any thing
spoke against God or Chiist. I cried out, <Thou Devil!
wherefrom didst thou come ? Canst thou dare thus to
trifle with God ) Hast thou not sunk thyself low enough
already ? Dost thou want to bring the wrath of God
more heavy upon thee than tfcou hast already ? Dost
thou not know all power jn heaven, earth, and hell, is
in his hand ? He filleth the heavens with his majesty,
and therefore we worship him. He fills earth with his
goodness; and therefore w.e ought to honour and obey
him, love and worship him. He filjs hell with his ter?
rors, and thereforethou oughiest to fear him/
'* In this manher,” says Joanna, “ I continued with
Satan for ten days. His answer and blasphemy was ton
shocking to pen ; till I was worn out with rage and ma­
lice against him, I could not bear myselfi When he
would come in upon me with blasphemies, my spirits rose
Digitized by G o o g l e
%
JOANNA SOUTMCOTT. 51
as one in a fever, My brother hath sometimes took me
’ by the hand, and pitied my weakness, as he thought I had a
fever; for I told it to no one, for fear they would* blame
me. I went out of the house, sometimes in the garden ;
hut the garden was not large enough to contain me. So 1
went out in the open fields ; and went from field tofield to
dispute with the Devil, till I had got rid of him, and wea^
ried myself out with passion. Then my spirit would sink
low, and think I had all Job’s troubles, and my friends
like his; for I had no one to complain to. But I said,
*Why do I complain ? Who was grieved for the afflic­
tions of Joseph ? Who was grieved for the afflictions of
JobV
* Shall Simon bear the cross alone,
And other saints be free?
Each saint of them hare got their own,
And there is one for me.
But now it is come unto my lot,
Let it not keep me from,—
Lord, never let me be forgot,
Till thou hast lov'dmehome.
*But could I die with those that die,
And place me in their 4tead,
How would my spiritlearn to fly,
And converse withthe dead 1"
“ After I had thus sunk my spirits, a heavenly joy
would arise in my soul, with these words:
“ Gird thy loins up, Christian Soldier;
’Tis thy Captain calls thee out:
Let the dangers make thee bolder,
War in darkness fear nor doubt.
Buckle on thy heav’nly armour,
Patch up no inglorious peace;
Let the dangers wax the warmer,
As thy fears and foes increase.
i
Digitized by Google
5 8 HISTORY OF/ RELIGIOUS IMPOSTUU
Lo! whten dangers closely threaten,
And thy soul draws near to death;
. When assaulted sore by Satan,
Thy object then’s the shield of faith.”
“ After I had written the blasphemy of Satan, these
words came to me : ‘ As thy spirit was enraged and; pro*
Yoked with the blasphemy of Satan, so is my spirit pro*
Yoked with the blasphemy of the nations. And as thy
brother tried to hold thy hand from going out of the
house, and pitied thy weakness, so hath my Son tried to
withhold my hand, and pitied the weakness of his people.
But, as thy spirit grew so high* that thou couldst not bear
it, but was forced to withdraw from him, so shall I,—
And as the garden was not large enough to contain thee,
but thou wast forced to go out from field to field, so the
heavens are not large enough to contain me. 1 shall
come out of the heavens, and dispute with man, if their,,
sins and blasphemy do not cease. As thou heardst all
this, and kept silence, so have I. And as the fire kind-
leth in thy breast, and thou speakest with thy tongue ; so
will the fire kindle in my breast, and I shall speak. I
will not always keep silence ; neither will I be always
chiding. I shall awake as one out of sleep.
And should my wrath for ever smoke,
Their souls must shrink beneath my yoke."
" I shall add a few more Words spoken in answer to
man’s blaming my following the commands of the Lord;
as he judged it to be foolishness, and could not be the
Lord’s direction. I seemed to be answered powerfully,
as if the Lord had spoke to me in love and anger that man
should not direct the band of the Almighty,
Digitized by Google
JOANNASO
U
THCOTT. 59
4In thunder now the God the'silence broke,
And from a cloud his lofty language spoke:
Who, and where, art thou, O fond and presumptuous man,
That by thy own weak measures mine would span?
Undaunted, as ifan equal match for me,
Stand forth, and answer my demands of thee:
But first, let thy original be trac'd,
Aud tell me then what mighty thing thou wast*
When to the potent world my word gave birth,
And fix’d my centre on the floating earth,
Didst thou assist me with one single thought,
Or my ideas rectify in aught V
Declare my loving kindness to the children of men;
and my faithfulness and loving kindness thou shalt not
keep back ; for my loving kindness I will never take from
thee; and it is impossible for man to do it. I am too
full of majesty for man to attempt it.*
4( These extraordinary things have been now ex*
plained to me.
“As she so boldly for her Master stands,
Then now in thunder I will answer men:
And first let thy original be trac'd,
And tell me now, what mighty thing thou wast,
When first, I took thee from thy native dust,
And in the garden thou alone was plac'd 1
Could'st thou bring forth the world as shehath done 1
Or, like the Woman, bear my only Son,
Without her aid, as she did without thine?
I tell you, men, the myst’ries are behind.
x As from the woman you did all proceed,
Took from your side, man is'pronuanc’d the head;
But you*must know, you are not the perfect mail;
Until your bone is join'd to you again.
Soboth together must in judgment sit:
And teU me, men, ifher disputes were right,
Digitized by G o o g l e
d o HISTORY OP RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES*
To say my honour 1 had still maintain’d,
And plead:with Sataivas she bath began:
Then both together you shall surely know,
I have gain’d my honour by his overthrow;
For if the woman stands so much my friend,
You all shall find, I’ll stand her’*in the end*
If from herself this lore aod courage earner
1tell you plain, she is the head of man*
But if from me the spirit first did fall,
I tell you plain, I am the head ofall:
And when her writings you’ve all went through,
Much greater mysteries must come to your viewr*
So by the woman now I will surely stand,
As for ipy honour she did so long contend.
Ten days he held her with his blasphemy,
Ten days a hero she held out for me ;
Then of these days I turn them now to years:
I’ll prove her words, and man shall see it clear,
That every word was true what she bad spoke:
I’ll gain mv honour, her words Til never mock.
So if men mock them now, I’ll tell them plain,
I’ll gain my honour, to destroy such men.*
All this rhapsody is taken from that fine paseage in
the latter end of the Book of Job, in which God con­
vinces him of hi$ ignorance and imbecility, to which we
refer the reader, who will feel sufficient vexation to aOe
it so vulgarly mangled. But to proceed :*
*
** Now, I must be candid with my Readers, and teWyon
plainly, I have not been one of them that build their faith
on a sandy foundation? / have been powerfully led bp
m Spirit invisible far eigflt years past: and, though I
strongly was influenced to write by it, as a Spirit invisi­
ble, and convinced in my own mind it was from Gad;
yet, knowing $a*M might corns as an of light^
Digitized by Google
lOAKNA SOUtlfCOTT. 04
made me earnest in prayer, that the Lord would be my
director, my guide, and my keeper; that I might no?
be permitted say, 'T h e Lord saith,’ if he had no?
apokea. In answer to my prayers, I had signs set be~
fore me of what was to happen, to assure me it was1
of God ; that, was I to open them all, it would fill a
volume, and how true they all came."
We give her all the credit she deserves, when she
says, that her actions have not been guided by im~
posture; but we will take her own excuse and as#
sertions respecting the several completions of her pro#'
phecies:
“ I have not imposed on the world with prophecies#
till I was clearly convinced they were of God, and not
from the Devil. The truths of the harvests I put in
the hands of ministers, for them to be judges, if it
came true. The war continued, as I was told it would,
hx 1704, continue till we were in war with the Turks,
and then our arms would be victorious, as you wiH
see in what was answered me in prayer; that as a God,
the Lord wonld begin like man, and make the same
promise to me that Herod did to the Damsel.9 • My pe«
tition and request was, if I had found favour in the sight
* We extract this promise from St. Matthew, xiv. 6. 7. 8.
* But when Herod's birth-day was kept, the daughter ofHe*
rodies'danced before them, and pleased Herod.
M
Bkerrupon he prom ised, with an oath, to giwe her mhatswer
$he mouldask.
"And she being before instructed of her mother, said,
• Give me here John Baptist's head in a charger.'"
Digitized by v ^ o o s l e
6 2 HISTORY OF RELICrIOUS IMPOSTURES.
of the Lord/ that he would defend us from the foreign
enemy, that the heathen nations might not say, 4Where
is now the God in whom they trusted ? that Satan might
be cut 'offfrom the earth, as John the Baptist was. I shall
not mention all 1 asked in prayer; but you will see
the answer of the Spirit to it. 4But there are storms
arising; and those that clearly discern the days that are
come will shelter themselves against the storm, and
screen themselves when it comes; but thousands will
perish through unbelief, aud many will perish through
want of knowledge ; but every wise man will be like
Solomon—search out the mystery, to judge for them­
selves ; but fools will judge of things they know nothing
about, and stop their ears, like the dead adder, that will
not listen to the voice of the charmer* charm he never
so wisely. By such 1 am. sure to be cursed ; but this
it must be to fulfil the Revelation—The dragon was
wroth with the woman, and casts, out floods against her;
and this be will do in the hearts.of men; so I may
say, with David, ‘ If Shimea curse, let him curse; for
the Lord hath bidden him ;’—and as our Saviour said
to Judas, 4What thou dost, do quickly,’. As to my
friends, 1 love,and esteem them; and my dajly prayers
shall be for them. As to my enemies, I forgive and
pity, 'knowing this must be, to fulfil the Scripture: but
they cannot hurt m e; for I am dead to the world, and
the world to me. By my own master I must stand or
fall. Deep is the mystery of my writing eight years,
and keeping /it sealed up, and putting it in print the
new century. This is a deep type to the land, that I
shall explain in my other writings. Deep is the mys­
tery of the tree of knowledge being good and evil
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOUTHCOT'T. 6 *
. ■
■
■
» Iam Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the
ending— — the first shall be last, and the last shall
be first : so the knowledge of the evil fruit came the
first, the knowledge of the good fruit must come last.
“ I shall add some that are mysterious at present; but
to me is easily known; and the reader will see it
clearly hereafter. Could you see all my writings through
in one volume, you would be truly convinced it was of
God; but that J cannot take out in a twelve month
how the Bible is explained, and what shall happed to
every nation upon earth.
“ I shall now add the copy of a letter that I sent to a
minister in 1796, after he had disputed with me, that
'th e marriage of the Lamb was to take place in hea*
ven.* I said, *N o; the marriage of the Lamb meaneth
when he cometh to unite all nations, to be as one sheep
under one shepherd, and Christ to be the shepherd of
the whole* The Lamb’s wife meant a woman, that all
these things should be revealed to ; and readiness was
perfect obedience to all the commands of. the Lord/
He seemed at a loss to believe it. I was ordered to send
him the following letter;
‘Now, this to him I bid thee write:
I f thou art not the bride,
Tell him to bring one that is right,
My GospePssoapplied,
For to the fulness it cannot come,
Until the bride be found :
Out of her closet she mustgof
With jewels deck'd around.
For here's the pearl ofgreatprice%
And unto thee Hisgiven;
Digitized by Google
04 HISTORY OF RRUQIOUS IlfPOSTURBS»
And art thesejewel* of no use;
Then she shall enter htaven,
In white appear before me there*
While you in grief will mourn;
And all shall know her words are true*
For vengeance fast shall come*
In heaven the wonder first was seen*
And you may wonder here.
* Thewoman clothed with thesun
Shall make all nationsfear;
Then let the stars begin to shines
And publish my decree.
If these refuse, I'll others choose*
Though fatal destiny
To those that disobey their call;
Tis me she hath obey’d.
The woman stands condemn’d by all*«*»
Was man by her misled l
Then now by her he must come back
Thatparadise will regain.
In her I’ll break the serpent’s neck*
And will set free her chain*
She poured the ointment on my head*
And a good wbrk she wrought;
And with her tears she wash’d my fast*
bet man deny her not;
For at the cross the woman stood* ,
The sword went thro* her soul*
While my Disciples saw and fled*
And so they left me all.
No woman in the company*
When bands on me was laid;
And Pilate’s wife did pity me*
When Judas had betray’d.
When from the grave I did arise* ,
I ask* who there was first.
Then let the sons of men be wise*
If womenlove me best.
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOCTHCOTT.
Have I her life and senses spar'd,
. For to assume the bridef
Then let the sons of men beware,
That she be not denied.
More fatal nowthan Adam’s fall
Twill happen to the man. s
Forin the dark the light doth shine.
Your eyes are dazzled here;
And will you shudder at the thought
To see the mystery clear ?
Or will you, like the Jews of bid, r
Keep seals upon the tomb?
Or wjll you bribe the keepers here,
The truth may not be known?
Then soon to others I’ll appear,
In the highway Fll go; * ? >
And this command, without delay,' ;
I ]bidthee hasty do.’
Here follows ^collected mass of incoherent rhapsodies,
with which we will not presume to tire our readers. We
cannot, however, resist adding her explanation of the 19th
chapter of the Revelations:
* u Now I shall begin with the 19th chapter ofthe Reve-'
lations. After I had seen the truth of my writings come
on, and my faith began to grow strong, in January, 1?9!^
1 was powerfully visited with these words t “ I Will say ‘
to the south, Giveifp; and to the north, Keep not back/
1 will call my sons from afar, and my daughters from th# *
ends of the earth.” 1 was earnest in prayer to know the
meaning, and was answered, “ Knowest thou not thf
words of thy Saviour, Thekingdom of heaven: isJlike unto
0 woman having a little leaven, which she hideth in three
measures of meal, until the whole be leavened* And how
| will open to thy view the Revelations; and when Chon
*
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
BISTORT OF RELIGIOUS TJfrQSTUftES,
hast leavened it, thopsbaJI leaven the whole Iprap; for,
as I kept nothing from Abraham,•ee I keep nothing front
thee;fo r the Lamb to tome, andthe Bride hath made her•
fielf ready. By thjy obedience thou hast done itj and the
end of all things is at hand.” These words threw me in a
flood of tears. J put down ray pen and was silent. I
thought it too high far me, and would not write i t ; but (
was answered, *The marriage of the Lamp meaneth the
uniting of all nations together,* to he as sheep under one
fhepberd; and Christito be the shepherd of the whole.—
By the Lamb's wife was meant a montan, that all thia
$hould be revealed to ; and she should be in perfect obe­
dience to all the commands of the Lord. Readiness if
obedience; and far thee to eonceal these things would be
as wrong as it would be in Mary to conceal the nativity
o£Chrb%;fqrtfeaf men should tfeigilrit wasprkfaand vjdn
gl<$y ip,h§.r? -F w pot tbo of Bfeiu The
Lprdj isthyjudge, ,^ d kwwMhy heart* r To conceal the
secrets of a king is honourable^ Luttfappuaeal the secret*
of thoLflfd Ja sinfulj rfaa tpfl Lord wiU never reveal
man what fin Jthiph« prpper fa cpneeal -fa hiajfelf.Wrp*
Thg^ argpmpnts me ppp them, unworthy as J an
tg fecwyp {hem. Bu|, kupping ,iti* pot our merits, but
Chnstr’s ngerpitf, that we ^je, wk&;we are* I vy49 answer­
ed, • No^o is .hefarp RV ,motherf none i* greater
nor Jess M k P *Ml>» 8r*»t««t amongst
ypPjleJ: y m iprjpi#t^r *-he that iaohiefest pfoongft
y o p . s h ^ l ^ t p ypp Dgpp spd'weighty
fea^ps .w ^ ^sfignad fa nfa,*hy -Ifad gopp taiwugbi
aostrangeandfiiigulgr a Ufo-pamyrwfai* will saabarer
V$*;e^teiifad fa m Ufa7^ f h » t o f
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
yOANNA SOtJTtfCflhrtV
our Saviour in the! Mount. The wiride blew, and fkd
norm descended, and it felt not,fa t it 1taSfounded an d
took; but he that buik on the sand, the storm came, anct
the wind blew, and itfell, and great was the fa itthereof4
The meaning of these Words *The powers of darkness
that hath strongly assaulted thee, and aH the powerful1
persuasion ofthy friends that hath tried to prevent thee ;
But thy faith fell not, for it was founded oil the*rock o f
ages; and the words of thy Saviour sbailbe made manfc
fest in thee* and by thee : but those that build on tho
sand are these that build on their owrfwisdbm; and1when
the winds blew, and the storms descend, (that is* whenr
the truth of alfcome upon them,) tfheir wisdom will fall,
and great will be the fall thereof* for man's' wisdom wilt
all fall together/ *'
Being convinced of the state of mirird under which this
disordered devotee to superstition at this time laboured*
We should beinduced to leave her here to pity and'obli*
▼ion, did not ourtask impose upon us the promise we have'
Made, and urge a hope that, in the completion of that pro­
mise, Weshaft benefit mankind; Wo, therefore, shaft in­
sert a few more of the licentious effluxions of herconfused
imagination ; and then conclude with such appropriate
remarks as befit so singular* and* as* circumstances'have
made it, so interesting a subject. ’
W heel ftad!written these things,” Joahna proceeds*
*r I was reading, one Sunday, in the Bible, 21st chapter
of Revelation, Conte, hither, dad / will shew thee’ the ‘
"Bride, the Lamb's Wife. And he carried me amny in1
1fit *
spirit unto a great high mountain, M ete I saw the New
Jerusalemdescendingout ofkeattit. Rearing these words*
i
Digitized by
f
Google
HISTORY OP RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES*
( t o
I blushed, though alone by myself and began to doubt *
by what Spirit I had written, or what I had believed*.
I wont up and was earnest in prayer, and was answered,.
€t Thou wast in the spirit, when thou sawest the new
Jerusalem descending, with all the host of heaven; and
thou wast on a high mountain, where John saw the
Spirit* The Spirit is the Spirit of God, that hath visit­
ed thee. What do they make of the Spirit and the
Bride? What do they make of their Bibles
Having, we trust, given ample, sufficient, and satis*
factory testimonies of Joanna's principles of prophecy,
and her manner of disseminating them, we will not
detain the reader's attention any longer on such, in
themselves, trifles; but state to our fellow creatures,
the extravagant notions this poor distracted, being,
has formed to herself in the following anecdotes of her
life, to the present period, by way of convincing all
who are not desirous of being wilfully hood-winked by*
subtilty.
From the year 1793 to 1801, Joanna endeavoured to
get herself noticed by some of the dignitaries of the
established church, but in every effort she failed* In
the year 1799 she addressed a letter to Dr. Buffer, then
Bishop of Exeter, in which are the following curious
•xpressions:—
99Here your Lordship may be lost in wonder, how
Satan shall fall by a woman's band* Mysterious as it
may appear, yet very clear it is explained to me, by
my perfect obedience to the commands of the Lord,
who made the same promise to me, as Herod did to the .
damsel; and I was ordered to ask in ^riling—and my.
Digitized by v ^ i O O Q l e
JOANNA SOOTHCOTTV 69
petition'and request was, If I had>» found favour in
the sight of the Lord, that Satan might be cot off
from the face of the earth, as John the .Baptist was, l
was answered, the Lord would grant my petition, and
give me my request; and 1 should seal it up with three
seals, and carry it with me to the altar, when I received
the sacrament,-—I did; and was then answered,
4 what I have spoken by ray Spirit, sealed with my
seal, 1 will now seal with my blood,*—
.But it is said
to me,
‘ It is a man must raise thy hand
And tell thee to grow wise,
Like Herod’s damsel to go on,
Then all shall gain the prize.
When men begin as she did then
And like Herodia9burn,
To wound the foe, as she did so,
I will like Herod come,’
49 The man strengthened the woman's hand by the
fcll, and he must strengthen her hand to bring it back.'
'What God designed at first, he will accomplish at last,*
It is not all the power of hell can prostrate the designs
or purposes of the Most High. The Lord made the
woman to complete the happiness of man, and by her it
must be done,’"
What the wished to impress upon the bishop and the
other church dignitaries was, the great end of her sue*
Cessive prophecies which she declared to bcfi *'-to warn1
the whole world at large, that the second .coming of-
Christ is nigh at hand; and to shew, (from the1Fall, that'
the promise that was made to the woman at first must1
be accomplished at fast,” and in ker sex too, “ before -
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
histor* oif xtticft&c* itfrbsfuRtis;
*6
Mad* complete " Redemption can take place.” Christ
is himself brought to declare all this, by the Spirit who
Communicates with Joanna; as, for instance, where it
is thus said—
i
* For marts transgressions J did die.
Andfor them did atone;
But still the Woman'sguilt doth Re,
Till Satanfeels his dooml
Then, canyou not the mystery seef
The Woman's Promise it mustcomCf
Who cast herguilt alone on he*
When I did make the Woman first,
1 said from her the good shall bursti
For man could not be good alone*
The woman must his helpmate come*
And nowhis helpmate doth appear
Withprophecies no man canclear/ *
4 Word to tbb W ise/
The incessant impulsions of her wandering spirit, at
last induced the ministers add.the friend* who wished
her well, to conclude that sbe was really bereft of bef
proper understanding.
But no advice, no restraint, could impede her vanity.
Determined to increase her proselytes, she* in 180f,
printed the five first parts of what she very properly
denominated Strange Effects of Faith.*
Th§8induced seven gentlemen to pay her a visit at
Exeter, in order, as it has been said, to ascertain the
nature of her mission. “ Now I shall inform my readers,*
says Joanna, in her continuation of the prophecies^ 1£13>
p. 54, €t Why the Lord permitted seven men to come
down, and no more, to fulfil the law. By the seven
atariare meant the sevenspirits of £od * for the spirit*
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
JOANNA SOUTSCOTT, f l
of the Lord are bat one spirit, The five wise virgins in
the New Testament, (which alludes to the Jive Evange*
lists; being joined to the aforesaid seven men, make the
twelve spoken of in the Revelation to bring in the
twelve tribes of Israel*
u Some men have written to me, that they are called
of God to be chosen with me $ I think proper to tell them
here, that I know'them not. None are chosen with me
put such as are revealed to me*
We heartily join with Joaqna in what followSf and
we express as much sorrow, though in a very different
mind, as she can possibly do. “ And J am sorry to say
many false prophets and false Christs are risen qp in
the world*” we go no further; but suffer Joanna to
proceed in her own way; “ for,” continues she* " J
have heard them, and have their letters to testify against
them, wherein they assert that they are the saviours of
the world ; so that the Gospel of Christ is fulfilling every
way, and the en^ is at band, put let no man judge
liimself the saviour of the world. The plan of salva*
tion was laid at the creation; and”—mind her #wn
words—“ no prophet pan arise but what is spoken of in
holy writ.” Attend to what follows. “ A prophet like
Joqah was to appear; and he has appeared in Mu* B ro­
thers ; and therefore.our Saviour said, “ J was sick and
in prison, and ye visited me not.”
“ And Joel's words must first coipe true.
Before I make an end;
The Revelations to your view
Must malje the learned bend.
$he wonan plotbed with the see
You'll find must first appear;
The m a r r ia g e of the lam]}must come;
Jffy seal it must appear,
Digitized by G o o g l e
1ft ^ HISTORY hF lttLlOIOVS IMPOSTURE*.
*ssamtBmK*6s£sasaBss- ,ag-agjjgT "r~rr.T.-.,,■■■ 1
AH this is done by my command,
Thenjudge your summer nigh;
Jot my elect shall ever stand,
And Abba, Father, cry.
: *Its spoke of thee, let all men see,
That such one must arise;
, $o if your Bibles plain you see,
There's none can blind your eye*;
F6r what impostor ckn take pla<;e,
■
«' If wisely you discern ?
*Tis but a dark benighted race,
, Jhat fools .can ever harm.'*
Such a specimen of disarranged intellect as is above
exhibited, happily1 for mankind, rarely occurs. Let
©or readers only glance at the coincidence attempted
here, and the most fastidious must be soon convinced.
'The Virgin Mary and Joanna Southcott!—the prophet
Jonah and ttrchard Brothers!— Surely, surely these
are sufficient evidences of a mind diseased.”
However, Joanna, having, as she imagined, enlisted
dupes sufficient in Devonshire, bent her stepp toward*
the metropolis in 1803. Here she issued her proclama­
tions in the public newspapers, summoning all to attend
what she called her second trial at High House, Padt
dington, against the*23d of January^
- On the day appoiuted, those'who had attended hep
at Exeter, with many more, met to take the verity of
Joanna’s mission a secorid' time into consideration.—
None, however, attended but Joanna’s proselytes, and
their determination was the same as at Exeter, no opr
poser making his appearance.. We will insert one of
the “ Thoughts’1 of these seven wise men on sp im­
portant a subject
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
j OAnNa iou T ricd T iv 7 3
u Third Thought.
*
*Honour, glory; and blessing, be Arito our God And
our (feat Redeemer, Jesus Christ. HbW shall we praise
the Lord for his goodness to the children of men, for hiss
having revealed SuCh knowledge to babes and sucklings,
When to the wise and learned of this world he has de*
nied it! How wonderful has this Sixth Book laid opeit
the inyst&its of the Bible? and has famished the sertanti
•F the Most High God with *Uch Weapons, as neither the
powers of darkness, nor all the wickednesses of men;
Will he able tb stand a moment before th£m! May we
put oh the whole arotout of God { may we be strong
firm, faithful; and obedient to our blessed SavioOty
Jesas Christ! then will he Send us strength; wisdom;
faith) and courage; from his holy sanctuary; that wo
stay be enabled to withstand all the wiles and fiery darts
hf Satan; that we may be enabled to overcome alt the
•hfertrles and fbes of the Captain of ouf Salvation; and;
through his blessing, be the happy instruments of esta*
blishihg hrs blessed Kingdom upon eatth 5 then mAy we
kejoiee with the oil Of gladness J because the bride hath
Modi hereof ready? and by her perfect Obferfierice, our
deadly foe, Satah, together with his host; will be east
from the earth; and that promise will be soon fulfilled;
4 € f the seed of the woman bruising the Serpent's head.99
9
Would any imagine that SeVen men, three of them
pretended ministers of the Gospel; and many. bthetA
assisting, cottld hate bedi found in such A nation afc
IWtaitt, Where knowledge is not restrained, and the
Utters! sciences flourish, to sanction such extaciCs of
iUpeMition;*L£We bad almost said Atheidh!
Digitized by Google
7 * HISTORY OF RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
But it seems that Joanna has since»discovered that her
second mission was designed to shadow forth to her,
even eleven* years since, the forthcoming of the King of
the .Jews* though, by the bye, she failed tq
> compre­
hend the meaning of the spirit* <
#When I ordered thee
to call together thy judges,” observes the Spirit to her'
in, her Third Book of Wonders, “ to prove thy writings*
and make them public to the world, and when the peo­
ple were assembled together* I ordered The Box*
where the Writings were placed, to be put upon a
table* but not to be opened, nor the cord broken* till
thou (Joanna) hadst brought in a little C h il d in thy
arms* which was Foley’s son. And I ordered thee to
place Him on the box* to stand in the midst o f the con­
gregation with a bride*cake in his hand; and, then 1 or­
dered that all the congregation should kiss the child*
{Then know with what eagerness they all took the child
from one to the other, and kissed him: and though the
company was large, know the child smiled upon all*
which was remarked by them. Know'* I placed him as
one of the judges; but no one knew fo r what ends l
ordered this to be done, as the type and shadow were
hidden from all ( Then I ordered the cord to be cut*
and to be cut to pieces! then, know my answer.—As
they cut the cord, so would the nations be cut, before
that child was old enough to know good from evil; but
the depth of knowing good from evil cannot bp known
by the child yet; but mark what hath happened upon
the nations abroad, since January, 1903* that this was
done. Here is the first type of the C h il d standing
alone, to make up the twelve. Now come to the second*
Digitized by Google
when I ordered them to call all the witnesses together to
have the truth proved, of what they knew concerning
my visitation to thee from the beginning; and then I or­
dered that strangers and unbelievers should be invited the
second time to come fdrWard, and if they proved the visi­
tation not from the Lprd, then to their judgmental said
thou ajiouldst give up ; but know, they refused to come
forward, and pass their judgment. Then I ordered the
writings to proVed by the witnesses, and their farther *
judgment was given from the truth they heard from the
witnesses; then I placed the child the secondtime to stand
ms ajudge with man ; and with men he held up his hands9
in the petition to have the power of evil destroyed, that my
kingdom might he established in righteousness and peace.
Here is the second type of the child, hidden from all,
why I ordered this to be done. But now come tp (the third,
which I have compared to thy awful trial; whi^h, as I
have told thee, a trial may be awful and serious, though
the end may be glorious to them that believe, but awful *
and fatal to them that now mock.”
At this meeting, such a decision having passed in fo^
anna’s favour, the metropolis soon teemed with various
bulletins of her wonderful pretensions* But all did not
seem to consummate her wishes, till a third meeting or
trial should take place. Her wishes were complied with ;
and the meeting was held during the month of Decem­
ber, 1804*, at the Neckinger House, near Bermondsey,
which lasted for seven days, but none except her devo­
tees attended. At this trial Joanna’s feelings-are best 4e*
ascribed by herself:
& When the gentlemen/’ says she, *f entered the room,
— -------. JOANNA S0UTHCOTTV 7 5
* Digitized by Google
.. ........... ' ™ * ehb*
the clergy entering first, she felt h,er *on^u<? tied, and
Y
B
M
l opt a,ble to speak: and, as her, friends came in, her
confusion interred,, and, in her own mind, she thought
she should have fainted away; butf to her greet astonish*
pient, when piI had entered, though she felt, as it weref
dying before,she was 3$ a giant refreshed with, new wine,
without pain, sickness, or weakness: she stood up, and,
felt the Spirit of the Lord enter within her; to call then*
all to the remembrance of the fall; pnd? when fhe told
tl^epi of th/c promise made to the woman, to bruise the
serpent’s head, every man in the room h$ld up his hand*
to join wit^ her in claiming tfc promise j*
It was natUrTaJ to suppose* that tho?e who had.exhibited
su^h convictions. in Joanna's favour at Exeter would not
recede from a similar approbation in I^ndon, where the
corps was stfengthened by the junction ofMr, Carpenter,
at that time an agent in conducting the papermanufac­
tory under: the firm of Koops and Co. This assembly was
xmmerops, as appears by the signatures^ amongwhich are
those of some clergymen. These men took upon them*
after the whole, of ^hat(is called 4
4The TricJ** wa§ gone
through, to publish the following:—
f‘Njeckinger House, Bermondsey, near ^London,
December 1 1, 1804.
We, whose names are hereunto subscribed, b?iP(
invited, by dipw con^ut^d, for seven d^vv to the exa­
mination of Joanna Sonthcott’s prophecies, do indjvidu*
ally and voluntarily avow, by onr separate signal re v
our firm belief, that her prophecies qqd other spiritual
Communication* emapate wholly qn4 entirely fw m the
79 JUSTOJtY OF FE^IGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
WANNA JIOVmeOT^* n
spirit ojt ihe Hying iwrf/'-^Book of the Trial* p* M&r*
This is confirmed by the fifth resolution, page 79, thusrrr
^ From the examinations of Joouna’s writings it doth ap*
pear to qa that sho is visited by tfco Spirit of the living
God,*
We ought sorely to coosidpr this asa leading imposture,
fraught with profanation against the Doily, and to serve
different ends ajad purposes against mankind; and to pass
every morbid heat of pasaioa and hMnd geql as a sacred
fire, an'holy impression, $n iafluetice of the fioly Ghost),
when nooiberQperationexUted hut *jsapy fancy, i&sorely
an extraordinary illapse of blasphemy* an ignis fqtou$ of
religious sedition, promulgated by these enthusiasts.
But let us bear what soma of these illnmiaati have to
assert in. their vindication. Mr. William Sharp, one of
the principal* thus addresses himself to his. readers in a
pamphlet, entitled, An Arvwer to the World* Speaking
of ttauroajL he says,
4<From the year 1792 to the end qf the year 1794, her
Writings were sealed up; and, after being witnessed,
were put.out other possession, and the same caution was
observed at the end of each sp eed in g year., Every
time, they were placed iatbe hands of persons of credit,
until the arrival of myself and friends at Exeter, when,
at.our departure, which wasat the beginning of January,
IfiQfc the. whole of her sealed writings were put to our
possession, properly sealed and witnessed. The box,
containing the greater part, was given to my care ; and
I think it necessary to add, that whilst 1 was at Bath,
on my London, I had a, large, case,
made, which, enclosed the whole host far the cords
\
Digitized by v ^ , o o Q l e
J *
• ......................... -- .......ti-iMAu-
round the box were sealed with seven'seals, and 1 had a
quantity of tow also pat between the box and the rope.—
hieither was it possible for us to be deceived respecting
the identity ofthe writing?, which remained secured with
ns until they were conveyed' by me to High-House, Pad­
dington, whete the box and parcels were first opened,
and the seal* broken* inthe presence of above forty per­
sons, assembled together.by public notice, in the begin­
ning of January, 1303* And after the writings were
thus taken out, each paper was signed by three persons
before they were delivered to Joanna, for them afterwards
to be copied ofF.
“ After my belief was fixed that her visitation was
from the God of Heaven and Earth, it was my duty to be­
lieve that she would be faithful to his word and his pro­
mises. The wisdom of the Most High had provided a.re-
ntyedy that his image might not bejostin man, by the
promise first made after his creation, to make him an help­
mate in the woman; and it was to her; and not to the
ipan, that the promise was made, after the foil, that her
seed should bruise the serpent’s head.* Woman is to be
prepared,, as the bride is adorned for her husband; there­
fore, whatever woman is to receive Christ in the spirit,
must*be prepared in such manner that her deisires must
be to him, and to him alone! I am convinced that'
Joanna has, in various ways, been in preparation from a
HISTORY OP RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES*
f “ God laid his plan in the creation,” says Joanna, “ to
make room for man’s redemption by the woman, whom he
cheated for man’s good; and this by casting her blame on S
<
f>
fw 's hea4f which every.soul will find in the end.?
Digitized by G o o g l e
JOANNA 80UTHC0TT. 79
Spirit invisible, before the year 1792, when the S p irit■
o f Prophecy was first given to her. Had* she not been'
thus gradually prepared before that period, the sudden^
ness of the extraordinary visitation would have been too-'
powerful for nature to bear; neither could she have had
that confidence in the truth o f the S pirit, if she had not be*
fore had proofs respecting herself, and in her own life, in
many instances/9
44She wrote,” continues Mr* Sharp, 4
4of what would
happen,” (concerning the years from 1792 to 1805 inclu­
sively,) “ and which has since come to pass.”
We feel ourselves here at a loss to express in what
temper we should receive the above testimonyr but we
do not find it difficult, from sacred writ, to form a judg­
ment of its compaction. Thatjudgment isunanswerable,
and as such we insert i t :
4
4Thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, and he that
formed thee from the womb, lam the Lord that maketfc
all things; that stretcheth forth the heavens alone ; that
spreadeth abroad the earth by myself; that frustrated*
the tokens of the liars, and maketh Diviners mad; that
turneth wise men backward, and maketh their knowledge
foolish.w
—
-Isaiah xliv. 24, 25.
4
4Son of man, prophecy against the prophets.of Israel,
that prophecy, and say then unto them that prophecy
out of their own heirts, 4 Hear ye the word of the Lord
*•Thus saith the Lord God, 4Woe unto the foolish pro­
phets that follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing 1'.
44 O Israel, thy prophets are like the foxes in the de­
serts.
(€ Ye have not gone up with the gaps, neither made up
Digitized by Google
m HISTORY Of RttlOtOuS mW^TURES.
tire hedge for the house of Isftfe) to Maid! W
k the battle In
the day of the Lord.
"A nd they have Seen Vanity aftd lying divination,
shying, *The Lord Safth/ and the Lord hath hot sent
them * end they hare made Others to hope that they
Would confirm the word.
r<flave ye not seen a vain vision, and have ye not spo*
ken a lying divination,* whereas ye say, 'T he Lord saifh
it albeit I have net spoken ?
99 Therefore* thus sarth the Lord God, 4 Because ye
have spoken vanity and seen lies, therefore behOld I am
against yon/ saith the Lord Go<L
99And mine hand shall be upon the prophets that see
vanity and that divine lies 5 they shall not be in the as­
sembly of my people, neither shall they be written in
the writing of the house ofIsrael, neither shall they eater
into the land of Israel; and ye shall know that I am the
Lofd God.
w Because, even became they have seduced aiy people,
saying, Peace* and there was ho peace; and one built
up a wall, and, lo! others described it with untempered
mortar. * 7
“ 'Say unto them which datib'it with tfbtempered
niortar, that it shall foil: there shall be an overflowing
shower; and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a
stormy wind shall rend it.* Ezfekiet, xiii. 2, 3, 4, i , &c;
It was after the delivery Of her papers to htr. Sharp,
that Joanna was ordered to come to London, and she
waS informed by some spirit or other, 4
9that she should
not return from the metropolis till her writings had
been proved,*
Digitized by G o o g l e
Joanna SbCTtocotT. I t
1 n r ---- ------- ------------------------------------mill
In London she found a competitor in the ominous
faculty of Joseph Prescott, a youth aboit > ghteeh
years of age, Who had also been endued With the gift
of beholding extraordinary prodigies, even since the
year 1793 ; bet bis innate faculties had not been re*
Vealed to hot; and she says, that “ hitherto he had
been quite UnfchoWn to her, aOd she tb him conse­
quently must have been harrying on his phantasma bir­
der a different firm. However, after her Writings had
been proved, she fell in with this lad oh the 23th of Fe­
bruary, 1803, at which time Mr* Carpenter, thinking it
might turn out a good speculation, engaged our pr<£
phetesS to join in the concern, and oh the 4th of March,
Joanna began her explanations of yCUhg Joseph’s panto*,
mimic appearances. Mr. Carpenter profited by thfe
trade it brought in ; he contrived a chape! out of the
profits, which he called, mOSt iiripiodsly oiider such cii*
tutnstances, “ The House^ of God !#
> and plastered the
Walts of the Chapel With Joseph's revelations, explain^
by Joanna, Which are still exposed to the Contempt of
rational men, and the pity Ofthe charitable*
A busy meddler has taken upon him to asSeVt,-that aft
these visions Were originally drawings taken inaFfetich,
ship. We do not say that this is true or false J howt*
eVer, as Joseph is still living* andirt a different line of
life from that kind of deception, it rests with him; and
We hope that he is inclined to be very communieW*
tlve, and to say how fa t he too* inslrtttud to dredm ? and
howfa r the r e a l t r u t h justified hirh in his ittotnHoHs upfcW
Jfr. Carpcnt&*s walls?
Wo know not whether W
eO
ught to apologise t* oat
M
Digitized by Google
S2 Hist o r y o f r e lig io u s im postu res*
rfemale readers, particularly for what follows; but re­
lying on their indulgence* considering what we have
to wade through, we will proceed without farther apo­
logy :—
. About the end of July, 1802, Satan took alarm at
Joanna’s Sealing of the People, who desired to destroy
.him, and the Lord gave him liberty to contend with
h e r; but he was not allowed to appear to her visibly*
“ If,” says she, “ I stood out with strong faith in Christ,
.and did not suffer him to speak without any answer, I
was assured 1 should overcome the Devil at last, as he
did the woman at first. So I ran the hazard of my life,
to contend with the powers of darkness; but the Lord
.protected me, according to his promise, and gave me an
answer to Satan’s words.” Satan, however, had threat­
ened to tear her to pieces, unless ahe consented to de­
stroy her Seals, and suppress her witnesses* ‘ Thou
infamous b***h!’ said Satan, enraged at the opposition
he met with, *thou hast been flattering God, that he
■may stand thy friend ! Such low cunning art, I despise f
Thou wheening wretch ! stop thy d*mn’d eternal
tongue! God had done something, to choose a ,b***b of
p woman, that will down argue the Devil, and scarce
.give him room to speak V Satan wa$, at length, fairly
tired out, and, perceiving that his assaults were quite
xtnpvailing, he left the prophetess to claim the victory*
JShe has risen far above ^iis reach, proving, as she some­
where tells us, that-—'* if the woman is not ashamed of
Jfeerself, the Devil cannot shame her.”* . - -
* It is remarkable, (says Mr. Lane) that Joanna dreams
to much about the Devi}, whom,she once saw like a pig, yith
a
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SO etH C dfT . m
It is Sealing which occasioned such alariq in Satan’s
breast, and which constitutes, according to Joanna, the
ushering in of the Millenium, by sealing the faithful
for the enjoyment of it, to the number of one hundred
and forty-four thousand. Half a sheet of paper is pro*
tided, on which are written the following words:—
f The Sealed of the Lord—the Elect and Precious—Man9
*
Redemption— To inherit the Tree of Life—To he made Heirs
<f God, and JointrHeirs with Jesus Christ—Joanna Southr
cott.’ The writing (within a mystical circle, about six
inches diameter) is in a good plain hand; to which
is added her own signature, a wretched scrawl* The
seals, with red wax, are outside, and, in general*
poorly impressed on the wax. Whenever a person is to
he sealed, he writes his name on a list provided for that
purpose: this is called signing for Satan’s destruction,as
he thereby signifies his wish, that S.atgn may soon be
destroyed ; that is, banished from the earth. When
the list issignedf the person in office seals up the letter^
writes the person’s name on it that it is for? with the
words, " Not to be broken opep,” and then c)e)iyers it
into his hands; and the person is sealed.?
his mouth tied. Another time she skinned his face with her
nails after a fierce battle. She afterwards thought that,
she had bitten off his fingers, when his blood tasted sweet;-
and, finally, she dreamt that she had positively dispatched^
him! v
AThe impressionis performed with thesealthat Joannafound
in sweeping her house, and which she threw by into tfietfll
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
HISTOMC t r W W O IJ S IHTOSTURBS.
S I
The prophetess's power now became apparently su*
pftrpe, and at it*height; for, would it he believed the*,
fa the nineteenth century, there were persons so supetv
htitioos, when in the Jest gasp pf (heir mortal frames, at
to crave that one of Jo*nna*fe seals might be- placed ie
1
1 f»(i ■ ------ : .»■
— -------------'— t,- -. - r-;---------- ^— T
pf her bei; but the SpiiU one day ordered her tp lock for it*
whm^ she found the letters J C. were engraven on it, with
Two $tars ; the initiaJ J being by the spirit to her interpreted
to stand both for Jesus andJoanna, and that of C. forChrist.
Tbe stars were hereafter to signify those of morning and
Wiping i Jesas being the Morning Star and Joanna the
Evening $ter!!
“Annexed to her Sealing, (says Mr. Lane,) is this hierogly*
jihic (J. C.) the two initials upon which, says an anonymous
contemporary writer, I danonly understandso mean infer***
poNMmiON, believing that Joanna acts under the immediate
direction pf Setan!*
But the prophetess still defends the validity of the Seals,
6s the impartial reader will perceive by the ensuing extract
from her Word to the Wise, “ Andnp.w you &ep” declares
the Spirit to Joen.ua, “ tyon have begun to write their
jftajnes —for the desire of my kingdom; as I said it war
hastening dn. And now they are fulfilling my words; and
they shall be welcomed iu with the Bridegroom—when I come
tp bring on the midnight hour fyr man—then they shall b#
known to mefrom their names, who wish for my kingdom;
so all is shewn in the visions as I told thee.*'—Again, “ It is
not tby'prophecies” continues the Spirit, speaking to Joanne,
* that complete their happiness, hut the sealing of their ttamejf
that they have signedfor Satan's destruction) and their desire
fbr my kingdom, that mast complete their happiness in the
end. $e man is an helpmate with thee, and thou with man;
fbr this, shall complete tbe happiness for man. And it is
for the sake of thesey that elect me for their chosen priest and
ling, that Satan's reign shall he shortened. So thqae tea the
Meet, for whpse ipLe he shah be cast down,”
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
JOANNA. SOCTBCOTT. ftS
their coffins, that their soak might be more quickly
wafted to the realms of immortality !—
-ft is to be hoped,
that Joanna’s advocates will not insist, that snch circum-
stances did not happen within the last four years !—
We now adventure upon a part of out subject, which
readers it highly necessary that we should make use of
all our circumspection. Our publisher has been served
trith the Copy of a Writ in the Co,urt of Common Fleas,
at the suit of Jane Townley, for {as the Writ declares)
*f with force and arms the close of thesaid Jane, (our
publisher and one John Doe,) broke, and other wrongs
did, to the great damage of the said Jane/' Ac. We da
not plead guilty to this accusation ; for the name of Jana
TownLey has not, as yet, been mentioned by ns, io the
whole load of recrement through which we have been
compelled hitherto to wade; and we shall take as much
care as possibly we can, consistently with good manners
and with troth, to avoid mentioning names, except as mors
extracts from Joann*/s own publications, as they seve­
rally occur.
And having hitherto shunned any personality, except
mentioned by Joanna herself, we cannot form any con*
joeptiou on what grounds this action in the Court of Com­
mon Pleas has commenced.* The only thought which
has intruded itself on the subject is, that Joanna, finding
that the Prince Regent, the Nobility, the most and right
reverend the Bishops, Ac. Ac. Ac. having refused
any participation in her vile blasphemies, she may
have been, in the visions of the night, ordered, by some
mischievous spirit or other, to bring the action against
the publisher, that her mission may he argued in a
Digitized by L - o o s l e
M HISTORY OF KELIOfOUS IMPOSTURES.
^sBawawweagsgss ...r:iM
I, a s E a a a g a s = = a a a B w <
court of law; and as a matter, hitherto"unworthy of faith}
(o be proclaimed to mankind, and her mission establish*
cd or refuted by the verdict of twelve other men, than
those to which she has hitherto been accustomed to
state her claims. Should the sentence of that court
declare that we have really done any injury to Joanna
Southcott, to any JaneTownlev, or to any other Town,
ley with whom she may be in intimacy, we trust that
we shall never be ashamed to own that we have been
in the wrong, which is but saying, in other words] that
we are wiser to-day than we were yesterday. Yet, ex*
cept a court of justice—the Court of Common Pleas, for
instance—should so far make an abscission of its known
dignity, as not to condemn, in its utter abhorrence, what
is aimed at the pockets, the minds, and even the future
welfare of his Majesty’s liege subjects, we shall still
wade on, for a short time longer—not too long, for the
sake of our readers,—in completing our strictures on on*
of the most b^se and unprincipled impostures, that has
ever disgraced the annals of Great Britain, and teeming
with all the wicked allusions that diabolicism could fa­
bricate to render trifling and populous the doctrine^
of;our divine Redeemer, and to furnish Atheism with
grounds for doubting the very existence of the Christian
religion!—Should the nature of the subject, therefore,
cause the name of Townley to be introduced, accidentr
ally,, by way of extract from Joanna’s, or any other
publication relating to her, let it be generally under­
stood that we despise, personalities ; but feel ourselves
compelled to analyze and condemn wbat we considef
more terrible than a. lie. Possessing, suph .sentiments
Digitized by Google
JOANNA. SOUTHCOTT*■*- • 7
and.under such circumstances, we proceed fearlessly,
because not doubting of the consequences.
. The conflicts of Joanna have been described as terri­
ble, attacked, as she says she has been, by.the powers
of darkness, and their prince; but Joanna has also oc-
casionally been favoured with celestial visitants; though,
like all *angel-visits/ such scenes are comparatively but
‘ few, and.far between/ When she has conflicted with
Satan for seven days, an hour’sconsolation in the presence
ofher Saviour has amply compensated her. “ Sunday, June
£4, 180*/' Miss Townley says, in her published Letter;
that, after “ admiring the beauty of .the wisdom of the
Lord/9concerning “ the wondrous manner he vtas Work*
ing,” and declaring she would not go one step from hii
directions for the whole world,” that, now, “ rivers of
joy ran through .her mind,” that “ she felt her heart to*
fulj to keep silence, got out of bed, walked up and down
the, room as quick as possible, and said she felt; herself
so full she should burst if Mrs. T. did not put down
the communication ahe was copying.” June the, 25th*
•the same year, “ a Uule after ten o’clock at night, Joanna
was ordered-to take up her bed and walk.!* Getting
out of bed, she at first walked hastily up and down the
room, till, at last, the Spirit of th$.Lord, entered into
fusr with power. And, *as Satan had <walked up and
down the earth hitherto/ she said, *the Lord would,
walk up and down the earth now / but should he appear
in his own persou, should he appear in his own power,
should he appear in his own majesty, they would trem­
ble tp stand before him. Therefore 4 He was come, in
the Spirit, in the Woman, to declare hie Fattier $ wild
Digitized by Google
history o f asuotoca impostures*
n
%mto MenV anti they (Tewnley and UndefwOod) were
the two Witnesses* t/* adds Miss T. 9t laid upon the
bed, perfectly quiet and composed, listening to all she
amid; and Underwood stood at the foot of the bed, look-*
tag at her and listening with the sante attention, but
neither of ns felt any fear. Joanna saith ♦she felt nothing
but joy and power/**
In addition to this, Joanna declares, that 49 All of a
eoddett, the spirit entered me with such power and fbry,
that my senses seemed lost; I felt as though I had powef
to shake the house down, and yet I felt as though I
could walk in air, but did not remember any words t
•aid/* Townley adds, “ that the mom shook vio*
kntly 0
How far religious sentiments were at one time Settfee*
able to Joanna, by counteracting an earthly fame, W
O
will not take upon us to discuss, ns it is now immaterial
to learn: it is, however, matter of regret, considering
the tarn of her character, that her love, instead of being
subdued by religion, should have become mingled With
her operative sensations of faith. The pro&riencss of
gallantry,0 observes Gilbert Stuart, in his View of the
Progress of Society in Europe, u disturbed arid deform-*
#d the meditations of the most pfous, Religion Was' em*
ployed to give a poignancy to the disorders of pr03tiiU->
bon and l u s t a n d 4
4the devotee was tb look Up to the
Virgin with the eyes of a lover, and to contemplate the
beauties of her person and the graces Of hefr carriage.*
But this profaneness of gallantry, though practised ill
•he times of popery, is happily impracticable to that*-
kind under the reformed faith, nor can it be indulged
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOUTHCQTTV *9
by the weaker sex except their other faculties as#
disordered.
But there is reason to fear that the delirium ofsensuality
is sometimes found combined with the frenzy of fanati*
c;ism, and that carnality may be gratified under the
imagination of spirituality. Who can peruse the follow­
ing vision, for example, related by JVJiss Townley in the
pamphlet entitled “ Letters and Communications of Jo­
anna Southcott,” and not be offended and staggered at
the disclosure of such scenes?—Monday evening, July
the 2d, 1804, it seems that Joanna tried to compos#
herself, after a hard contest with the Devil* when
“ at last, she fell asleep ; and whether awake or asleep/*
continues Mias Townley, *
<she does not know, but ah#
remembers she was quite awake when shefelt the baud of
the Lord upon Iter, but in that heavenly and beautiful
manner that she felt joy unspeakable and full of glory#
She felt herself laying as it were in Heaven$ in the hand*
<f the Lord, and was afraid to move, fearing she sfautd
remove his heavenly hand, which she felt as perfect as ever
Woman felt the hand of her husband”
[We should be glad to know, Joanna professing her*
self a virgin, how she became acquainted with such sen­
sations, as to know the difference ?]
Here the Lamb’s Wife herself takes up the tale.***
" In this happy manner,” affirms Joanna, “ I fell
asleep ; and in my sleep I was surprised with seeing *
most beautiful and heavenly figure, that arose from the
bed, between Townley and me. He arose, and turned
himself backwards towards the feet of the bed; and hie
head almost reached the tester of the hedj but his fac#
*
Digitized by Google
M h is t o r y or r e l ig io u s im p 6 st u r e s.
EBBaaassgssB«sgsBssasBSsg ■‘■ rrvrlhg-
was towards me, which' appealed with beauty and majesty,
but pale as death. His hair was a flaxen colour, all in
disorder around his face. His face was covered with
strong perspiration, and his locks were wet like the
dew of night* as though they had been taken out of a
river* The collar of his shirt appeared unbuttoned, and
the skin of his bosom appeared white as the driven snow.
Such was the beauty of the heavenly figure that ap-»
peared before me in a disordered state; but the robe'
he had on was like a surplice, down* to hisr knees. He
put out one of bis legs to me* that was perfectly like
mine, no larger; but with purple spots at the top, as
mine are with beating myself, which Townley, Under­
wood, and Taylor are witnesses of. Methought, in my*
dream, he got himself into that perspiration by being?
pressed to sleep between Townley and me. I said to*
him, ‘ Are you my dear dying Saviour, that is come to *
destroy all the works of the Devil ?’ he answered me*
*Yes!’ I thought I called Underwood and waked Town*
ley, to look at him, which they did with wonder and
amaze* I then thought 1 would go out of my bed, and
fall down on my knees, to return him thauks for his
mercy and goodness : but, as soon as these thoughts en­
tered my head, he disappeared, and a woman appeared 1
in his stead, which gave me pain to see he was gone,
but the woman told me many wonderful things that
were coming upon the earth, and what was coming upon*
the devil; yet I grieved at the loss of my dear Redeem­
er, for I saw no beauty in the woman; and, though*
the woman would reason strong with me, her reasons t
did not like. In this confusion M awoke, and heard th*
Digitized by G o o g l e
JOANNA SOJJTHCOTT. 9 t
bell polling for the dead at the same time ? which I re,*
marked to Townley.”
" It implies no love to God, that men aspire to be
bishops, or archdeacons, or shepherds of the flocks; for
these all preach for hire. Striving to'convince the
world of the Second Coming of Christ, however, is an
evidence of divine love, since such characters have no
present prospect of reward.” Now, "as she stood* out
and with courage,” during the grand contest with
Satan, which lasted seven days, besides other sore con*
flicts with the powers of darkness^ the Spirit has. assured
her that it shall ever rest as a blessing on all women
that believe in Joanna : for as EJve’s disobedience rest*
ed on the one hand, so shall Joanna’s obedience rest
on the other hand, from generation to generation, till
time is no more. So say not (affirms the Spirit) that
she only is blessed; for they t]\at believe in her, mutt
believe in Me: it is my spirit, not h$r spirit, whom ye
believe in ; and whom men persecute also—for they have
opened, by persecuting her, all My wpunds qfresfrA and put
Me again to open shame/”
Though, in her former writings, Joanna entertained no
idea of the miraculous child-bearing since announced by
her, yet it is observable that, sofar back as October, 18012,
the Spirit had given her some intimation on the subject,
\>y iuforming her that the Spiritual Man, which she
yras then bringing forth to the world was*’—neither more
qor less than—*
‘ the Second Christ.” Joanna is fiftnk
epough to own, however, that she understood so little
of what was working in the womb of time, as to omtt two
Jjpes, in her First Book of Sealed Prophecies, reye*lfd
Digitized by Google
j j f HISTORY OF RtetTOlOul IMPOSTURES,
s s a a a — csaB B Ssacs--------•.......... - :
a a B a E a t t e
to her in 1794* because they specified the promise of her
pregnancy,—
11havesaid, already, thou shalt havea Son;
*Ere he can speak, alt this shall sure be done;
1Great peace in EnglandIfter that shall he,
‘ Because the remnant will believe inme l’
#r I left out the two lines of having the Son, as I did
Hot understand it/* Inspiration had assured her of the
factf notwithstanding, and it washer duty to have pub­
lished it fearlessly. How can she justify this tampering
With the.tnath ? Other lines have been withheld in the
same manner.*’—Third Book of Wonders*
But, says the Spirit:
„ *Yon ne'er discern’d the Second Child;
1For here the learnedall were foil'd.'
u Marriage,” declares the Spirit, speaking to Jo­
anna, *
*was revealed to thee from the Revelation, but
Concealed from thy knowledge of any visitation further
than prophecies; and, therefore, they must now look
back to see in what manner I have spoken through thy
writings, that a marriage union must take place, then td
confine thee from every man, and then in power to visit
thee myself. This is the Child, and this is the Heir^
they will find spoken of through thy Writings, and
through the Scriptures; and yet it was concealed from
the knowledge and understanding of all, before it was
revealed by Me : and they will find that this is the Glory
Of the Lord, spoken of by the prophets, that all flesh
should see it together, for all shall see the glory of hit
rtign”
October the lltb, 1815, Joanna separated herself
w , ■
. . . , . . •
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOUTHCOtr? 93
from society, forbidding even her female acquaintance ;
and awaited the extraordinary accomplishment of this
prediction.
" This,7 says Joanna, I can take my solemn oath
to; I never had knowledge of man in my life. So that if
the words of the Spirit are fulfilled in me this year to
have a son, it is by the p&werqf ike Lord, and not of man ;
and this sign is set to prove the troth of the Gospel, or to
prove that the Gospel is not true. For this I am answer­
ed, if the visitation of the Lord does not produce a son
this year, then JesuS Christ Was n o t the Son of God,’
born in the manner spoken by the Virgin Mary; but if
1 have a son this year, then in like manner our Saviour
Was born.,> n Therefore I said/* resumes the Spirit
jn the First Book of Wonders,—
“ The woman clothed with the sun,
Should make all nations shake ;
For now the mystery I’ll explain,
TheRevelation break!
** It is not the Woman* makes the nations shake, that
is with child, travailing in birth, and pained to be deli­
vered, but it is the Child, when he is born, when the
nations will begin to shake; and then they will know if
thou art the woman, mentioned in the Revelation, to
bring forth the man-child.” " This year, I814-, in the
fiixty*fifth year of thy age, thou shalt have a Son, by the
power of the Most High !” Being clothed with the
inn, is the sun of righteousness, to arise with healing in
bis wiAgs, to heal the Woman of the Fall; but how could
it be said the Bride, the Lamb’s Wife, without a spiri­
tual visitation, to prove that, as the Bridegroom, I meant
to come in spirit ?
Digitized by L - o o Q l e
t i HISTORY OF RELIGIOUS WRQSTUllES.
MIt is the Son, that shall be born,
Fatal forthose that do him scornj
Becausethat Til uphold his hand,
Aud bring destruction in the land
That doth despise the infant's birth!”
“ I have felt increasing life,0 Joanna declares, in he?
yifth Book of Wonders, et from the l 6th of May, 1814,
to this day ; but never having had a child in my life, I
leave it to the judgment of mothers of children, who at­
tend me, who give their decided opinion, that is is per­
fectly like a woman that is pregnants Then now’, 1 say,
it remains to be proved whether my feelings and their
judgment be right or wrong, whether it is a child or
t»ot; which a few months mpst decide, or the grave must
decide for me; fori could not live to the end of thi?
year, with the increasing growth I have felt within so
short a space, withput a deliverance. I have assigned
xny reasons why I believed, and had faith to publish to
the world, that such an event would take place ; and I
am truly convinced that wondrous events must tpke place
to fulfil the Scriptures before men can be brought to the
knowledge ofthe Lord, as spoken by the prophets, pr thf
fulfilment of the Gospel be accomplished* §ut, however
jnen have mocked my folly and faith in believing what (
have published, yet I plainly see that 1 should be mocked
much mpre, hqd I concealed it from the world till this
present time ; for then there would be room for the world
to mock as to my being a prophetess, and such an event
not to be foretold, to make it known, {hat n^en might b?*
lieve.”
<
'Extract from Joanna's Declaration respecting theJfedical
opinions on hersupposed Pregnancy.
“ The first man that came into the room where ^
Digitized by Google
JOANNA SOUTttCOTT. 9 S
wris, from the 11th of October, 1813, to the 1st day of
August, 1814, was Dr* Adams* who was called in, with
Messrs. Wetherell and Phillips, on account of my ill*
ness at that time, and for their opinion of my case*
When I had laid before them the manner of my illness,
and the statement of all my complaints from the 17th
of March to that day, with my increasing size, and
feeling life within, Dr. Adams ashed what was the ob*
ject of their meeting ? I said, not to pass their judg*
tnent according to my age, from the statement I had
given, or from being kept from any man’s coming into
my presence, from last October to that present time*
1st of August* or from the prophecies; all these things
they were wholly to divest themselves o f; all the judg­
ment that was required of them was, to give their opi.
nion what they should judge of a young married w
< mam
In my situation, from every thing 1 had laid before them*
Dr. Adams answered immediately, I should not hesitate
a moment, or have any doubt of your being in a preg­
nant state, was it in a young woman; but as this was
a case of a particular nature, he thought an exami­
nation was necessary, and as 1 had been acquainted .
with Mr* Wetherell* and himself and Mr. Phillips were
strangers, he desired Mr. Wetherell would examine
me, and they would quit the room* Mr. WethereH
did examine me, and laid it before Doctor Adams and
Mr. Phillips, and Dr. Adams prescribed for me accord­
ing. Mr. Walker now applied to Dr. Watchman, and
Mr. Owen applied to Mr. Horff. I then sent to Dr.
Adams, to beg the farour of his meeting them; he called
upon me, end said be would attend, I asked him if he
Digitized by Google
•0 HISTORY OF RELIGIONS IMPOSTURES.
had ever such a case brought before him, of a woman
of my age ? He said no, never; neither had he ever
heard of such a case: therefore they could only pass their
judgment from the symptoms and appearance, was it in
a young woman, but this was a case could not be
reasoned upon. Wednesday following, he met the gen-*
tlejnen as appointed. When Dr. Walchman came, he
proposed an internal examination; and said the medical
jnen should not all come up together* but one at a time,
find give their opinions separately. Dr. Adams then
/Came up, and after external examination, said, I had
every symptom of a woman in a pregnant state,and wrote
down his judgment thereon. He then told me of Dr#
Walchman’s proposal of examination, that it would be
floser then be had done. I asked Dr. Adams* what
Dr. Walchman meant by a closer examination ? He then
explained what the other meant; this filled me with such
horror, that 1 immediately said I would not submit ta
that: for if they could not judge from my situation, and
the examination he had made, then I would wait tiU
the child made its appearance, strong enough to be
seen and felt without any examination at all. Dr. Adam#
said, be himself should not have made such a request,
but Dr. Watchman refused seeing me, unless I would
submit to such an examination: this I said I never
would submit to. Dr. Adams informed Dr. Walchnsaa
of my determination, and they left the house, as I
neither saw Dr. Walchman or Dr. HorfF, This being
talked of, a Mr. Meallin, surgeon, applied to have pew-
mission; being a stranger, he was requested to leave
his address and Mr, Phillips waited upon him. He
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
JOANNA AOttfHCOTT. 9 7
a reference to Drs, Heavysides and Pearson; after that,
he caroe^ with Mr, Phillips, and after hearing my state­
ment, and examining me externally, he said He had
no doubt of my being in a pregnant state, though it was
a wonderful case, I told him the proposal Dr. Walch-
man had made of examination ; at which he seemed
surprised, and said he conceived he could be no judge
from such an examination,of a woman at my age, Mon*
day following, Mr, Foster came; and after laying the
whole of my case before him, and he had examined me,
he gave it as his opinion, if it. was a young woman,
there was no doubt of my being in a pregnant state«
When I mentioned to him the proposals Dr. W. had
made of an internal examination, he said (like Mr. Meat*
lin) he could be no judge from that, at my time of life,
and the advanced time of the pregnancy; as those ex­
aminations took place at an early period, at ladies’ own
desire, when they were not clear of being in the family'
way, and wished to know, or, when they went be­
yond the time, to bring on the pain. The next day
Mrs, Foster came, and Mrs. Lock, a female midwife, and
two others that have had families; after laying my case
before them, and being strictly examined by the wo-
men, they all passed their judgment there was no doubt'
of my being in a pregnant state. After the exami­
nation, as we sat conversing together, I felt the life
working very strong within me ; Mrs* Foster was sitting
close by my side, and perceived it she immediately
laid her hand over me, avicl said she felt the life' of the
child as slropg as she ever felt: one of her oivn in her
life; Mrs Lock. felt, it likewise; the other two sawit
o
Digitized by Google
&S HISTORY OF REMfiSOUa IMPOSTURES.
movements,—Dr. Sima came with Mr. Wetherell; he
heard all the sytqptoms, And examined me, but gave it
his opinion, I was not with child, though he would
not sgy it was impossible, for all things were possible
with God; yet he himself shook! not pass his opinion I
was in the family way, but said he would nottake it upon
him to say I was net. When I asked him what he would
prescribe for me to prevent my sickness and pain, or to
bring me to an appetite* he mentioned the same as Dr*
Adan>s had prescribed forme, but would notprescribe any
thing farther; he said he should suppose such an event as
this, if it took place* would not be hid in a corner. I told
him;* na i there must be physicians and medical men pre­
sent ; he said he should be glad to be one, that he should
be happy to witness fov meagainst his own judgment.
Some ladies qame to see me, and upon mentioning Dr*
§i(p$*s reason for his qpinion, one said, I have had eleven
children* and the objection he mentioned happened to
me with every one of them.
“ After Dr* Sims had passed his judgment, I sent
for a medical man, whom 1 knew was strong in unbelief*
that it couM not be possible; and therefore I said I
Sept for him* to know if he could prescribe any thing
that would do me good* if I was not in the family way ?
He heard my statement from the beginning; he ex­
amined me ; and said if I was a young married woman*
he/diottld say I was not in the family way. I asked him
yfcat disorder he would judge I had to cause all the
sfoknesa, end the increase of my body } He said
he looted upon it I bad been long in a debilitated
state | the severe pain I had tfdt in my beck wan
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
from a hurt in the'kidtfeys, whitiftwas thfe catite of all
my other complaints} that tity Sigkfi&s proceeded from a
lodgmetit of bile ill tfly stod&tfh, which prevented me
from haVifag an appetite> bat rbtabtfe the caute* ahd the
effects would cease. I told him I Would not take any
thiog that I thought would be hhrtful to a woman
in a family Way; He sfetit nib two draughty but Mr.
Philips advised me net te take them. Sorirt after he
was g6he, Mr. Hopsjay came ; he heard the statement,
and examined my breasts, ahd otitilde my clothes, said
there was no occasion for any further eWkminition. I
n&ked him What Would be h^ judgment if I Was a young
Married woman ? he said that was ah uhfalr question,
and he would not answer i t : he whs then desired th an-
swer in his own w ay; he said he did not think I was
Wlth'cfiild, but his judgment might not be worth two*
pence, f then enquired what he thought my disorder
Was; he Said I had no disease, no disorder, but was in
perfect hiafth. After he was gone I thought bis judg­
ment cOUld not be worth a penny, to say 1 had no
disease, no disorder, and was in perfect health, when
I had suffered from pain, sicknesi, loss of appetite, and
bad gone through moire than 1 ever experienced in my
life from the l?th of March to that time; and at that
time could keep nothing on my stomach but fruit, vege­
tables, and liquids, nothing solid could I take. Here I
have given a clear statement of the different judgments
of the medical gentlemen that 1 was examined by.
ftine I have seen | six out of the nine passed their opu
tiiob, I was in a state of pregnancy; the other three
said I am not ; therefore /Was ordered that no examination
JO AK NA^lrttlfeO Tf. $9
. Digitized by Google
100 HISTORY OF RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
should take place; what had becfa already, was 'sufficient
to shew differentjudgments of me*w 1 have found a con
siderable alteration in myself, by feetihg the life much
stronger, and moving in different ways to what it had
before; and more particularly when 1 removed from my
own house, 1 felt it much lower, and much greater
weight: but should it prove not to be a child in the end,
it must bring me tp the grave. If there is a possibility
of my being deceived, that the life within should bring
death upon me, without making its appearance in the
worjd, I now promise to give liberty to open my body;
so that, either in death or life, they will’be enabled to
judge of a cause that never was brought before medical
men, of a woman at my age.”
According to the conclusion of the above statement,
Joanna seems to express herselfas though her infallibility
was doubtful. We sincerely wish that such a symptom
taay be productive of a restoration of her reason; that
she may, by a repentant depqrtment, make some amends
for what we hope arose more from distemper than from a
depravation of principle ; and when perfectly recovered,
Jet her feel herself happy that* by her amendment, she
has escaped the following denunciation, pronounced by
the Almighty, by his prophet Ezekiel, xiii. 18, &c.
“ Thou son of man, set thy face against the daughters
of thy people, which prophecy out of their o\yx
heart, and prophesy thou against them ;
“ And say, Thus saith the Lord God* woe to the woman
tbat hunt souls ? Will ye hunt the souls of my people^
and tuillye save thf souls alive that come imtoyoa ?
Digitized by Google
; - JOANNA 60UTHC0TT* '10 1
" And will ye pollute me among my people for hand­
fuls of barky and for piecesof bread, to stay the toutsthat
-should not die, and to save the souls alive that should not
liv e , B Y Y O U R L Y IN G TO M Y P E O P L E T H A T H E A R Y O U R L I E S ?
“ Wherefore; tfyus saith the Lord God,!Behold I am
against you, and will let the souls go, even the souls that
ye hunt t6 make them fly.
“ and deliver my people out of your hand, and
they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted; and ye
shall know that I am the Lord.
* Because with liesye have made the heart of the righteous
sad, w h o m I h a t e n o t M A ftB s a d , and strengthened the
hands ofthe wicked, that he should not return from his
wicked way, by promising hjm life. : ,
v ff Therefore ye shall see no more, vanity, nor divine
divinations; for I will deliver my people out of your
hand, and ye shall know that I am the Lord."
, . ; . . i * '
$y way of,conclusion, we will offer a few remarks, as
Jncontrovqrtible proofs of the fallacy by which the
grossest and most absurd imposition is attempted oMhe
ipinds of the unsuspecting and the unwary.
’
The sactfqd: Scriptures are of that wonderfol descripr
tipn, that it requires all the solid powers of intellect tod*-
yine the .true meaning of many parts of that vast,code of
sanctity comprised in the Old and New Testaments.-^*
With respect to the first,seventy-two learned Rabbins em­
ployed their deep erudition, and yet the Billie is still said
not to be satisfactorily translated; nor are we even to
ifiis day determined respecting some ofthe.propheqies of
J)aniel. The doctrines in the New Testament have been
Digitized by Google
100 HISTORY, o r HBMGIOU* im postu res.
involved id equal doubt by those whose temper^ hOve in-
diced them to give different iaterj^ibtathwis 16 similar
sentences; end great learning has beOn displayed in re­
conciling the various apparent differences of the sacritf
Scriptures,^ to adapt them, agreeably to their original
intention, for ©or JearniUgaad iastructiOm
If, then, so much labour has bead exited, sontach
erudition expended* So many ages haVe elapsed, and
mankind still dissatisfied, let us ask this plain* honStt
question: Can it be reasonable t6 suppose that apobC, da-
instructed, and illiterate'old wojtaaniSefcdued with stfca­
pacious an undefrstaadiog^s.ttQrderoloptjthe hiddenthhigS
which the Almighty, in his ulnseSrchable wiscIom; his
not permitted, nor. will permit, his finite creatures to
Icoow, till 1
}
is Own providence shall grant sack authority,
-as to his own Unerring; wisdom shall Seedt meet ? How
dreadfully* wicked then txmst it be in any one to atauale
pretensions of superior sanctity, of familiar conversation
withtheDeify, or of presuming to claim any ofbis attri­
butest And yet this has feeCti done, and a feMefiOtoiPfii*
brioated to give'colour to th$l project.
When the apostles reCeivedHWeir mfcsibh, they were,
though originally many oftfremignbratitmfen,3endued
-by their Lord ahd Master with the gift of tOhgtres, and
e*hef qualifications proper for them to Spread the troths
nf thfe Gospel dispensationtoevety corherof the earth,
where it shall floufisfrtifl time sbalf be no more. We
Will instance only one of1
theSe ext^adrdibairy mCiir SL
Peter. He was only a fishermdn ; yet who W
ifi rbddhfs
epistles, add notdeclare that they arbthe compositions Of
an inspired writer? Hfefory ihforndstrtfalsO, bythOtra*
Digitized by ooQle
-JMIAVHA SOtlVHCOTf* 10$
vets of the apostles and evangelists to very far distant
climes, that they must have been blessed with wonderful
talents to preach the doctrines for which most of thrift
were martyred, in such very remote regions. Co*se-
quently the hand of the Almighty was very evidently
shewn in the means he took to spread his Gospel.
£ut is any qualification of this nature,, attachable to Jo­
anna, or any of her followers ? Have they not taken
such freedoms with the sanctity of their Redeemer as to
form addresses to him nearly bordering on the grossest
libertinism ? Who can read (if they have patience to go
through with it) that vile piece of profanation, called
Joanna’s intercourse with the Spirit, “ whilst in bed with
Townley,” and not shudder!
We will, however, close this part of our disagreeable
subject by stating to our readers what, upon reference,
'will \>e 3elf-evident, wl^icb is, that Joanna and her ad­
herents have attempted to ipipose upon their fellow^crea.-
tures an impudent falsehood, by mutilating the text of
Scripture on which they pretend to build their whole
superstructure. Joanna has declared herself to be “ the
Bride/’ 94the Woman clothed with the Sun,” &c. ; but
* neither she nor her adherents have told us where these mi­
raculous circumstances are to take place. It remains
with us to satisfy ourselves and our readers irf this respect;
and though it may overturn the mental fraud of Joanna,
and all her concerns, we have only to desire all persons,
as it materially concerns them, to turn to the Revelations
of St. John the Divine, ch. xii. v. 1 and 2, and they will
find what follows:—
Digitized by Google
104 HISTORY OF RELIGIOUS IMPOSTURES.
€
CA nd THERE APPEARED A GREAT WONDER—‘IN HEA­
VEN A WOMAN CLOTHED WITH THE SuN, AND THE
M oon u n d e r h e r F e e t , a n d u po n h e r H e a d a C rown
o p T w e l v e S ta r s ; a n h s h e b e in g w it h C h il d c r ie d ,
TRAVAILING IN BlRTHf AND PAINED TO BE DELIVERED*’
We think, that by restoring the true reading, (t in
h e a v e n ,*’ to the above verses, we shall also prove b y
what deception the public have been attempted .to be
doped ; and till we can discover that Heaven is geogra­
phically situated in or near Exeter, London, Manches­
ter,. Leeds, &c.&c. we shall think it right to assert, that
it will b e best,—instead of attending to l y in g p r o p h e ­
c ie s , — to be satisfied with our condition, and to attend to
what St.John was commanded to write to the church in
Thyatira
u That which ye have already, hold fast till I (the
Messiah) come.”—Rev. v. 25.
Digitized by Google
>
MISCELLANIES
RELATING TO
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
PROPHECIES
SENT TO TUB PRINCE REGENT, TUB BISHOPS, &C.
I * the Sth Book of Wonders, Joanna states, “ I was ordered
bjrthe Spiritto send the book, with ray portrait, to the Prinoa
Regent, to the Archbishops of Canterbury and York, Bishop
of Worcester, Duke of GloucestevLord Grosrenor, Lord El*
lenborongh, and the Recorder of London. I have likewise
sent it to the Duke of Kent, the Bishop of London, and the
Bishop ofSalisbury. And this has been ordered to be done te
prevent any imposition being practised, either in my oame by
others, or, if I am ledby a wrong spirit myself, it will be proved
this year, aod that no imposition may be practised upon the
Jews, when I know, without a doubt, that I am with child.—
*
I am ordered to put in public print all the names above men*
tioned, that I have sent the book and likeness to, that the He*
brews abroad, as well as thosein England, may know that no
deceit was practised upon them; but that the heads and rulers
of the nation were made acquainted with it before it tools
place.*
' ' LETTER TO THE NATION,
INSERTED IN THE TIMES NEWSPAPER, OCT. £8, 1813*
* I, J o a n n a So u th co tt, havebeen more than twelve years
publicly warning the nation of what the Lord hath revealed
unto me he will do upon the earth; and the events have been
daily fulfilling abroad and at home, \irhich causes some to be­
lieve the visitation to be from the Lord; while others, with
the most infamous abuse and falsehood, have publicly declared
me tobe anImpostor; and others, withthe same ignoranceand
folly, say thatmy writings are from the Devil, fall o
p
Digitized by Google
1 0 6 MISCELLANIES.
my, andwondered that the Bishops should have suffered me
to go on in thiaitianner. I have borne themockery and abuse
of men, but now let all their wonder cease; for I shall return
to mock them, as they have mocked me, and prove it is the
devil, in the form of man, from whence all this malice and
persecution proceeds.
And now I shall say with David, “ If #1have been vile, I
will still be viler;” ana if I have beenljold^ I will be bolder.—
To my other Prophecies I have added two hooks, lately pub­
lished, intituled, “ Book,of Wonders;” and five more will ap-
£
ear hereafter, which l defy all the Bishops in England, the
lembers of Parliament, and all the Judges in the land, with
all thejudgment they can form together, to be able to prove
these two Books of Wonders, with the other Prophecies, were
ever brought round by the wisdom Slid knowledge of the devil,
or by the wisdom and knowledge of an Impostor,
r Let the Bishops come forward, with the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy*
and I will soon convince them thatI could as soon make the
world, as I could make my writings, and bring them round in
the manner they have been brought round to be fulfilled./ I
am not so wise as the world makes me; therefore I shall give
unto the Lord the honour and glory that is due unto his name:
and those that say they are from the devil, I shall torn their
,blasphemy upon their own heads; because it is blasphemy to
say, that such wisdom, knowledge, and power, can be in the de­
vil. And I was answered this mornidg, that if men went on
in this way, and the Bishops did not awaken, to prove the cal­
ling is fromon high, to stop this blasphemy in men, that awful
juc^ments should now come on, upon them and upon the na­
tion : for these are the words said upto me;—
; “ I will laugh at their calamity; I will mock when their fear
Cometh; when your fear cometh as desolation, and your de­
struction cometh as a whirlwind: when distress and ahguish
come upon you ; then shall they call upon m e, but I will not
<answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me ;
fori have looked and there is none to help; and I wondered
that there was none to uphold; therefore mine own arm
brought salvation unto m e ; and my fury upheld me; and 1
will tread, down the people in mine anger, and make them
drunk in my fury ; 1 will bring down their strength to the
earth.”
. This is the voice of the Lord unto me, from the Scripture
' Prophecies. “ The watchmen are blind; they are all ignorant;
they are alLdumb dogs that cannot bark,sleeping, laying down
fa slumber.” But this is the answer of theLord to me, “ They
.shall be visited of the Lord of hosts with thunder and with
Digitized by Google
MISCELLANf t S« m
earthquake, and great noise, with storms and tempests, and the
flame of devouring fire. Stay yourselves and wonder, cry ye
out, and cry, they are drunken, but not with wine; they are
staggered, but not with strongdrink. The Lord shall goforth
as a mighty man; he shall stir upjealousy as a man of war;
he shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail against his enemies.—
I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, and re­
strained myself; now will I cry like a travailing woman; I
will destroy and devour at once.”
- Here are the threatenings that I am now ordered to bringout
to the Nation, of the Scriptures that the Lordwill fulfil, if men
now carelessly sleep after t h i9 w a r n in g ; but if they awake
as men out of sleep, and obey the call, they then may look to
the promises in the following chapters: Isaiah 1,8, 9, ch. xlvf.
ch. Ixv. and ch. lxvi.
This I am ordered toput in the public papers; and if I have
no one to come forward to pleadmy cause tor me, the Lord is
working a way for me to plead it myself, and shame all that
•hamed me, and confound all that confounded me,
. Now as Rowland Hill called my^friends three and twenty
mad fools, for believing that my visitation was from the Lord,
let him bringforwardthree and twenty mad fools to prove these
Two Books, which I have lately published, with my other
Prophecies, were ever brought round by the wisdom of a wo­
man, or the wisdom of the devil; then they must b6 mad
fools, indeed, if they attempt it; for it has been none butmad -
fools that have written a book against me yet, bySatan's form­
ing himselfinAhem; and that their publications have proved.
J oa n n a SouTgcojT,
G e t 96, 1613.
v WARNING TO THE BISHOPS,
4
4BY THE COMMAND OP THE LORD;” INSERTED IN THE
MORNINO HERA'LD, NOVEMBER, 9TH, 1813.
4
4 As the Public say that the Bishops will not give them­
selves the trouble of searching whether my Visitation is of
God, or not, the following answer was given to me by the
Spirit
“ If they goon according to the judgment of men, and
thoy art confined one year in this house,as a prisoner, through
their neglect, then in one year I will cut them all off, like the
three signs I have mentioned. Know I told thee I should be­
gin at the sanctuary.”
Digitized by G o o g l e
106 miCElUVIKS*
The first sign Was of the Bishop's death, in 1796, which
was put in the band of the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy. The second
sign was in 1601; as the Bishop of Exeter refused to hear of
the Visitation, 1 was ordered to come to London, and St. Pa­
ter’s bell should toll for the Bishop when 1returned to Exeter
again, gnd this was fulfiled in 1803. The other was the
threatening to the Bishopof London, in 1804* as he refused to
hear of the Visitation, when applied to. And* as the Lord
fulfilled his word with them, I. am answered, that he will ful­
fil his word with all, if they do not exert the power they are
invested with. And this I am strictly commanded to put in
the newspaper.
And now I am called back to my former writings, where it
is said, “ One month you’ll see your destiny, what will befall
your land;v so this month fixes the destiny for the ensuing
year, either for blessings or judgments. If the Bishops keep
silence till this month of November is over, then they may
keep silence until next November, 1814* For I am answered,
that now the time is come of the fulfilment of a letter I sent
to the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy, in 1796.—“ Awake, my Shepherds,
saith the Lord, lest I kindle a fire in mine anger, and a wrath
in my fury, that shall burn to the nethermost hell. But if ye
awake, O Zion, and put on your beautiful garments, O Jeru­
salem, then shall your light break forth as the morning, and
your righteousness appear as the noon-day sun; and God,
even our God, will give us his blessing”
These are the promises, these are the threatening*, which I
was ordered to send to him, in 1796; and nowI,amanswered,
that the Lord will fulfil them one way or other, according as
the command is obeyed or disobeyed. The Bishops are now
called upon to judge between the Shepherd and the Sheep,
from a book lately published, entitled, “ The Second Book of
Wonders.*
Joanxa Southcott.
7 TO THE PUBLIC AT LARGE.
A LETTER OF PROPHECY, BY JOANNA SOUTHCOTT, INSERTED
IN THE MORNING HERALD.
My former Letters of Warning have roused various passions
in men, and some public comments. Amongthe latter I shall
notice a letter in the Stourbridge paper of the 12th instant,
signed Ephraim, whereinhe advises me to “ make a friendof
i
/
Digitized by Google
\
nriSCEIXAKTES. 109
his Satanic Majesty; ashe may laybisfaithful pawupon me;*
therefore he advises ,meto " court his favour—speak kindly of
him; for it is good to have a friend wherever we go.”
I shall answer him from the words of Solomon,—“ A fboFs
bolt is soon shot; the soul of the wicked desireth evil; and wis­
dom is toohighfor a fool.*9 But he who thinks to hud a friend
in the devil will findhimself deceived. 1 put notrust in mail;
then I certainly shall not put trust in the devil, who hath used .
his utmost endeavours to work in the hearts of men against
me : and fotmed himself in men, to cast out floods of lies
against me. I have not bailt upon such sandy foundations
Though the world laugh at my weakness, to believe that the
Bishops will give themselves the trouble of coming forward
and pass their judgment as required; I put no more trust inf
the Bishops, as men, than I do in their chariots or horses; hut
my trust is in the Lord of Hosts,*who saith to the proud waves
of the sea—Hitherto shalt thou go, and no further: who can
say to the south, give up; and to the north, keep not back;
wno can make his people willing in the day of his power.
This isthe f a it h that I rely upon—the rock of ages, and the
God of salvation—that the gatesof hell cannot prevail against;
and this is the f a i t h thatour Saviour said, in his Gospel, was
like the wise man, building his house upon the rock, and the
winds blew, and beat upon that house: and it fell not; for it
was foundedupon the rock: and this is the rock, which 1 have
built upon; and, therefore my house will not fall; but those
who have built, like this foolish man, will find their houses to
be built on the sand; and great will be the fall thereof.
And now I am ordered to put ip the newspaper a part of a
Prophecy givento me yesterday, for thepublic at large:—
w 1 tell thee, that the ensuingyear will be such a year as
.never was seen in England, since it was a nation; for, if my
commands are obeyed, that I send blessings to the nation, such
as werenever experienced before: yet Satan's weapons will be
strong, with rage and fury, to fight in men, till, like Sodom
and GOmosrah, they will be destroyed, and swept away with
the besom of destruction. But, from the days of N oa h , there
is a long warning, to awaken those who are not so strongly
filled with the devil against my coming to bring in my king­
dom of righteousness and peace. Thy f a it h is given to thee
as a gift of God, which the world can neither give thee, nor
take it from thee: and they will find that the sound of thy
M a st er *%fset is behindthee.9
*
JOAHHA SOUTHCOTT.
Friday,Nov. 19,1819.
r
Digitized by b o o g i e
1 1 0 . MISCELLANIES.
LETTERS OF PROPHECY, BY JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
“ Though the Bishops are silent to the request made of
them, and the warning given them, that they will not come
forward to support the Nvork, if it be of GOD, or to confute it,
if not; yet 1 am informed that one of the Bishops*hatb said,
that I have done more mischief than ever an individual had
done before.
“ I can scarcely credit the report to be tfue, that a Bishop
should see it in this light, and not use his authority to stop
the “ mischief,” when the power is put into his hands.
“ I shall answer such Bishops, as the King’s Jester once
answered him. When a nobleman sent a petition to his ma­
jesty, to crave his pardon for a third murder he had commit­
ted, the king said to his jester, I know not what to do con­
cerning this man: he hath killed two men before, which I
pardoned him fpr, and now he hath killed the third.” The
jester answered. 4
<No, he has not killed three men; he has
killed but one.” His majesty asked how he could make out
that? Thejester said, “ if thou hadst had him hanged for*
the first man, he would never have killed another; so thou
hast killed the other two.” “ Ah!” said the king, a dost'thou
say so? then he shall never kill another.”—
To this I was an­
swered—
*
4 Now let the Bishop be as wise as the king, or out of his
own mouth will I condemn him; if he sees this mischiefgo­
ing on, and doth not stir to prevent it, when I have put it
in nis power, and he judge it is from the devil, he will find my
anger kindled against him, if he still lets it go on. Will they
suffersin of the blackest dye to go on, and never stir one step
to stop the torrent of this evil t Then let them know that my
judgments are just, tocut them off, as cumberersofthe ground. #
If all should speak as thou hast heard ofone, then put of their
own mouths will! condemn them all: for they shall find that
thou art in perfect obedience'«to my commands. And will
they call this misphief? Then let them know mycommands,
which stand on record—be clear in judging that you may be
just in condemning. And now to their consciences thou must
appeal, whether they think it be right to see mischiefspread­
ing throughout the land, and they standing silent to have it '
so, when it is put in their power to prevent it ? For, on one
sideor other the sin must be great; because they must know
if thy visitation be from the Lord, and they call it mischiefin
Jhep to obey my commands5 t^
ien their sins must be great,
for condemning my love in warning them pf my coming to
establishpeace and righteousness on the earth. If this be de-
Digitized by v ^ . o o Q l e
MtSCILLANIRS, 111
•pised, let them own thejustice of my anger and7indignation
at the blasphemy that is daily spoken against my.visitation.
* And this is my command to the Bishops, if they wish to
find favour in my sight, as I have invested them with power,
I have put in their hands. This is my command to thee, that <
*hcy may see the justice of my threatenings, if all be treated
with silent contempt."•—
Thisis the answer of the Lord to me.
i . Joanna Southcott.
Oh Sunday, July 31,1814, Mr. Tozer, (a lath render, who
ha? for some time obtruded himself on the public notice, as
an asserter of the mission of Joanna) delivered in the pulpit
fcf Joanna’s chapel, Duke-street, Webber-row, St. George**
'fields, the following sentences:—
“ Brethren, I am ready to take my sacramental oath, that
no man has seen or spoken to Joanna Southcott, since
"August, 1813:”—Again, “ The world will be soon convinced
of the truth of our doctrine, for our spiritual mother will
bring forth the true Messiah, before the 13th of next Ja­
nuary.”
We have sufficiently dilated on Mr. Reece’s opinion re*
spectieg Joanna’s preguancy: We shall now insert the opinion
also or one of the most eminent in his profession, the ves-
nerable Dr. Sims:
TO THE EDITOR OF THE MORNING CHRONICLE.
Sir,
, ' Several persons having expressed a wish that I would vi­
sit Joanna Southcott, that they might be better satisfied what
foundation there was for a report that she was pregnant, I
consented to accompany one of her friends, a surgeon and
accoucheur of experience, for that purpose, on the 18th of
August. He informed me, on my way thither, that ths
most satisfactory examination would not be permitted, but
•that this was not at all necessary, as no professional man
could have a doubt of her situation, upon seeing the state of
her breasts, and feeling the outside of her abdomen.
Her appearance gave no reason to doubt ihe truth of her
statement^ that she was in her sixty-fifth year, and that she
had ceased to menstruate since she was forty eight; circum­
stances under which her pregnancy was naturally incredi­
ble, and were it real, might well enough have induced a be­
lief that it was supernatural.
r I endeavoured, however, not to prejudge the case, butts
form my opinion of her situation fiom the symptoms alone,
*s I should have done had she been only forty-five years
Digitized by v ^ - o o Q l e
IIU C B LU IdM .
112
of age, aid therefore within the period o f,probable prig*
naoey.
It ii quite unnecessary here to relate her conversation,
in which she asserted, that she had been commanded to
keep her apartment, pnd to admit no male to visit her tor a
period of some months; suffice it to say, 4haft .daring this
term, she stated herselfto have concaved ofa son, who would
be born before the harvest was over. She shewed me her
breasts, which she said had been before flabby and shrivelled,
with the nipple drawn in: they were now plumps the veins
large and visible, the nipple red and protruded: they had noh
however,the elasticity natural to the breasts of a pregnant wo­
man, and the ereola was pale, partly covered with a little
whitish scurf, and the outer circle not all defined, out grow­
ing very gradually fainter. They gave me, upon the whole,
more the idea of the breasts of an old woman grown cor­
pulent, than those of a pregnant woman. She stated, how­
ever, that she was in general grown thinner, especially about
the back.
The feel of the abdomen, through her linen, was not unlike
that of a woman in the eighth month of her pregnancy, but, as
it seemed to me, less hard, except at the lower part, where
there appeared to be a solid tumour, reaching not far above the
pubes, l proposed to put my finger upon the navel, without
any covering, which was permitted. This part I found sunk
in, notat all protruded as in pregnancy. In making this exami­
nation I was not sensible of any motion, which she insisted
upon being so strong, that she could not only feel it herself,
but that it had been seen by others who were sitting near. her.
In enumerating the symptoms, she mentioned sickness at
stomach, violent pain about the period of quickening, and
great increase of the sickness, with bilious vomitings at that
time; nor did she omit a sort of longing or extraordinary
cravings tor asparagus, when she had otherwise a total loss
ofappetite; but the order of symptoms was not according to
their usual occurrence, the sickness, instead of ceasing at the
quickening, becoming at that time much more excessive.
Considering all the above appearances, I did not hesitate
to declare it to be my opinion, that Joanna Southcott was not
pregnant; but was told I was the first medical man that bad
seen her that was not perfectly satisfied of the contrary*
I believe that her uterine organs are diseased, and that the
breasts, as it is usual, sympathizing with those parts, have
an increased quantity of blood determined to diem. Had I
thought the external appearances such as ought to lead to a
beliefin her pregnancy, I should have urged the proprietyof
her Submitting to a more satisfactory examination; hut feeling,
Digitized by Google
MJSC&LLAItfBS !'1S
at I did) a perfect conviction that she was not with child) it
seemed to me unnecessary to insist upon any further enquiry.
Having observed in the newspapers, that assertions are re­
peatedly made* that eminent accoucheurs have declared this
woman to be pregnant, I am desirous not to be reckoned of
that number. Yet before I conclude I feel it right to say, that
l am convinced that this poor woman is no impostor, but
that she labours under a strong mental delusion.
JOHN SIMS.
September3d, 1814. ______
In the Third Book qf Wonders is annoitnced “ the coming
of SnCLOH) with a call to the Hebrew*” The Spirit says, p. 4,
“ This year, in the 05th year of thy age, thou sbait have a
Son by the power of the Most High, which if they receive as
their Prophet, Priest, and King, then I will restore them
to their own land, and cast out the heathen for their
sakes; as I cast out them when they cast out me, by.rejecting
me as their Saviour, Prince, and King, for which I said I
waaborn, but not at that time to establish my kingdom.” In
consequence of this announcement, the followers of Joaetva
SoutaCoTT, in town and country, am making all sorts of ne­
cessary preparations. It is certainly true, that she h&
9
literally been overwhelmed with presents.—Laced caps, em­
broidered bibs, and worked robes,—a mohair mantle, which
cost 150^.—splendid pap-spoons and caudle-cups (one shaped
like a dove) hate been poured in upon her, till she has at
length determined to receive no more of such things! To
complete the desired apparatus, a magnificent Crib has just
been finished by one of our first upholsterers, and sent to
her residence, of which the following is a description:
This Manger and Crib was made by Mr. Seddons,of Alders-
fate-street, according to the order of, we believe, a carcase
utpher, jointly with some gentlemen, who believe she IjypN
PW
pregnant?—
The Crib, forming do oblong square, is of the usual size
of modern Crib*; the frame made with satin-wood, richly
ornamented with gold; the sides and ends filled with
lattice-work gilt. The body of the Crib, called the Majiobr,
in richly lined with blue satin, drawn together so as to give it
the appearance of fluted-work. The pillars which support it
are taper, with ribbons of gold entwining round them. The
head doth is of bhie patio, with a celestial crown of gold em­
broidered uponit, and underneath appears the word SHILOH,
in Hebrew characters, exhibited in gold Spangles. Over the
Digitized by Google
1 1 4 MISCELLANIES*
liead part of the Crib is an elegant canopy of blue satin, lined*
with the finest white muslin, to draw together to a point,
and fastened underneath, by a rose of blue satin. The outer
point of the canopy is finished with a figure of a Dove of gold
resting on a small white ball, with an olive sprig in its mouth.
Around the outer rim of the canopy is inscrioed in letters of
gold, —<A free-wiU offering by "faith to the promised Seed/
The curtains are trimmed with narrow gold lace : the drape- •
ries blue satin edged with gold fringe, looped with gold line
and tassels. The inner curtains of fine white muslin.
The Crib, or Cot, fits within the former, and hangs upon
swivels, that a proper motion may be given to it whenever
the young Prince may require rocking.
This Crib is made of satin wood, fitted in with most beau­
tiful cane-work, whence passes a cord of gold to a pedal, de­
signed to rock the cradle whenever proper for the infont, and
to prevent the necessity of leaning over the manger, to in­
commode the supernatural babe. '
The bed is of the finest eider-down, in white:covering; the
coverlet of the richest white satin, with a medallion m the
centre, bearing the figure of the Lamb lying down with the
Lion. The Lamb worked in silver—the Lion in gold. These
are surmounted by what is called the Tree of Life worked in
gold. The sheets for the bed are of the best cambric, edged
with expensive lace. -
This Dauble, with its ornaments, decorations, bedding, See.
cost upwards of Two Hundred Pounds!!! Not one shilling of
which would have been bestowed in real charity to preserve a
wretched family from starving!
THE FOLLOWING APPEARED IN THE SUNDAY
MONITOR.
N ||l Sept. 15, 1814.
S i r , — Having seen, this day, on a hand-bill wbatwill be
the contents ofyour paper next Sunday, I thought the follow­
ing authentic account would be acceptable, viz. That there
has been this week purchased, printed in Imperial quarto, a
Bible, which is put'into the hands of a distinguished binder,
(in a Street in the City Road) to be bound in a singularly
superb manner; which book, after the accouchement of Mrs.
Sou th co tt, is intended to be presented toher. son—the sup*
posed “ Promised Seed,” and the Elijah that was to come, as
expressed by Malacbi the Prophet.
Digitized by Google
MISCELLANIES. US
- The Bible is to be bound in red morocco, with a bor­
der consisting of the most significant and deepest theosophical
figures—
(Witnin)—
at each corner, is to be a Dove, with an
olive branch. At the ton,the Eye of Providence lookingdown,
encircled ;*'itbglory, ana a vast number ofcherubs descending
from it, following “ Jesus Christ/* (which i9to be written)and
over the name is to be a Celestial Crown, with five stars upon
if»;in a glory; the whole encompassedwith Clouds to represent
Jesus Christ with his Angels descending to the earth in the
Clouds of Heaven. On each side is to be a Star, and on the
earth below is to be the Tree of Life, with twelve mannerof
Fruits, anda Lion and Lamb opposite eachother, with a Three­
fold Rose and Lilly (against the animals) growing from one
stem. Beneath them is to be an Imperial (Regal) Crown, with
“ Shiloh*' written under it, surrounaed with an amazingglory,
and on the sides of the Tree, &c. to be written, “ the Bride­
groom and Bride united."
On the (gilt) leaves is to be impressed Cherubs in the midst
of glory.
The back is to be lettered,—" ThisHoly Bible is the Gift
ofa Family by Faith to the promisedSeed." Above which is to
be the Celestial Crown, with 1.H. S. under it, beneath is to be
the Regal Crown, with “ Shiloh*’ in Hebrew under that.
The Inside of the Bible is to be lined with pale blue wa­
tered silk, and a red morocco border onthe cover, and first leaf
having init the initials of a Family’s name, and some Theoso-
pbical Figures, and within that borderis to be another impress­
ed on the silk with gold, comprised of Cherubs and a Theoso­
phical Figure at each corner; in the centre is to be impressed
the Celestial Crown, with five Stars upon it, and “ Shiloh" in
Hebrew tobe written underit, encompassedwithglory.
It will be completed about the first of October.
*** In consequence ofthe precedingLetter, we immediately
applied to the Binder, whose name was communicated to us, to
ascertain that the statements were correct. We saw the Bible,
and found the preparations for binding it to be exactly as above
described.
We join in opinion with Bell's Weekly Messenger in what
follows:
“ However distinguished wemaybe, !n comparison with our ances­
tors*for general information and science, we scrapie not to say, that
the darkest period of our history can scarcely furnish a parallel in­
stance to the credulity and hlindoess that prevail amongst thefollow-
Digitized by Google
116 MISCELLANIES*
era ofthis woman. That she most be eltbef anuafortaoftfelunatic,
or a deliberatemoney-gettingimpostorsisevidentj andineithercase
it is evidemthat some stopshould beputtothattorrentof fanaticism
and blasphemy, whichflows fromherpreachingandpublications*•If
shebe insane,why hasshenot the benefit of proper medical advice ?
But if this apology caonot be offered for her ravines, it h right she
shouldbetold,that thoughthelawsofhercountryare wiselytolerant
inall matters ofreligiousopinion,they haveprovidedthat thesacred
name of the Deity shall not be profaned with impunity. “ Als
BLA SPH EM IES AGAINST GoD, ALL IK V O tT S tE S IN R E L IG IO N , AS
FA LSELY FRSTBN D IN G TO EX TRAORDINARY COMMISSIONS * R O K
G o d , AND T E R R IF Y IN G O R ABUSING T H E PE O PL E W ITH F A L SE
denunciations of judgment, inasmuch ag they tend to subvert
milreligion and morality, are punishable by the temposal judgee with
fine and imprisonment, and also such corporalinfamous punishment
as to the Court in discretion shallseemmeet, according to the heinous•
nets ofthe crime.*
*
—1 Hawk. Pleas ofthe Crown, c*1.
PRINTED BY J tAMELIN AND SBYFANG, ftA R M S E -B IM ,
V E A M S H T R S IL
Digitized by G o o g l e
