{"name":"Joanna Southcotts Mission Vindicated","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1814__js___joanna_southcotts_mission_vindicated.pdf","mytitle":"Joanna Southcotts Mission Vindicated","mylang":"de"}
JOANNA
SOUTHCOTTs
M I S S I O N
v i n d i c a t e d ;
1» Air,
ADDRESS
TO
Cfce people of GG1
D,
W H O * » *
WAITING THE ARRIVAL OF THAT PERIOD, W HIN THE
KINGDOMS OF THIS WORLD SHALL BECOME
THE KINGDOM OF
OUR LORD AND HiS CHRIST.
BY DR. J . 8* -
•—-
V \C
LONDON*
PUBLISHED BY M. JONES. No. t, NEWGATE STREET*
T. KEYS, COLMAN STREET, Ac.
W
o
o
l
**, piixtxr,5*,*o
o
»»»»itch
j
1814.
{PRICE ONE SHILLINGvJ
Digitized by
Digitized by Google
JOANNA
SOUTHCOTTs MISSION
VINDICATED.
T
JL HE purport of this publication is to prove,
from Scripture evidence, that some such charac­
ter as Joanna Southcott must be brought for­
ward, and supported by the divine power in
these latter dajs; for the purpose of introducing
into the world some High Personage, who shall
reign splendidly and gloriously in Jerusalem, and
govern the children of Israel for ever.
O ye sons and daughters of God, “ whose lot
is among the saints*,” peruse these few following
pages, penned for your encouragement and sup­
port, in the trying hour : and may you be enabled
to stand firm, and unshaken, though it be amid
all the varied, and trying persecutions of a
frowning, indiguant world.
Jacob, in blessing his sons, prophesies respect­
ing Judah, in the ensuing remarkable words;
The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor
a Law-giver from between his feet, until hhiioh
come: and to him shall the gathering of the peo­
ple bet.”
* W
isdom
,t. 5. G
en.xlix.IS*. .
A 2
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
4
On a superficial view erf this subject, some
commentators have asserted, that the sceptre in
the fullest sense of the word, was departed from
J udah, at the period when our blessed Redeemer
came, to lay down his life for the sins of his peo­
ple ; because the Jews were then under the
power and dominion of the Romans, as they
themselvesacknowledgedbefore Pilate; We have
no king but Caesar. Whereas, if the almighty
Father did purpose to bring forward a son of
Judah, who should ascend the throne in Israel,
and the blessed Saviour of the world did not, at
the time of his appearance on this earth, assume
that government; the prophecy could not possi­
bly have its accomplishment in his sacred person:
Therefore the sceptre could not be said then to
be departed, otherwise the prediction must have
been vain and to no purpose. And if Jesus did
not take upon him the office of Governor, but
withdrew from it; declaring to his disciples, that
he should go unto his father, and they should see
him no more; and sacred writ does inform us,
that Shiloh should govern the people of God,
and abide with them for ever; this person must
evidently be a separate and distinct character
from the Saviour. A nd: therefore though the
sceptre was for the time, wrenched from the hand
of Judah, it nevertheless could not be said to be
departed, but only withdrawn; and doubtless for
this purpose; that it might be reserved, by the
power of the Almighty, for that very person,
whom, in his sacred council, he might think well
to send in the latter day, and at the appointed
time. And the Period, (according to the opinion
of our most able Commentators,) is nigh at hand
when this prophecy shall have its entire and
complete fulfilment in Shiloh, that Mighty
5
Prince, who shall take this sceptre, and sit on
the throne of his father David, that he may dwell
with, and govern his people here on earth.Besides
it is here added, “ and to him shall the gathering
of the people be: ” whereas the followers of the
Holy Redeemer have been scattered and perse­
cuted from the very first; and so remain to this
day: nay Jesus positively declares, that in this
world, his followers shall have tribulation. But
lest his disciples should be swallowed up of
overmuch sorrow, he merciftllly adds, Be of good
cheer, I will see you again : and therefore, when
about to leave this world, and to resume his
throne in heaven; he informs them that he
would BOt leave them, without some one to
comfort and support them; but that he would
pray the Father; and he should send them one
who should abide with them for ever: and de­
clares to them at the same time, that when come,
this person should reprove the world of sin ;
because they believed not in the efficacy of his
grand atonement; that he should reprove the
world also of righteousness, because' Jesus was
to go unto his Father ; and the disciples were to
see him no more: that is to say tabernacling on
this earth. Hence it is evident, that Jesus did not
intend to come again, in his own person ; so as
to dwell upon this earth, in any visible form: and
since this Holy Comforter, whom he had promi­
sed, as about to come into the world ; was none
other than the spirit ofthe invisible God; he must
therefore of necessity assume some body, ere he
could become visible, so as to sit on the throne of
David. And that this body must be of the human
nature, is manifest from St. Paul,' “ Then shall
the Son also himself, ‘be subject unto him that
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
0
put all things under him; that God may.be all in
all*.” We find in holy writ, that God gave unto
Adam the government of this earth ; and put all
creatures upon the earth under his authority: but
when Adam fell, it appears that this power and
dominion, were delivered over unto satan ; and
that by Adam himself, in the very act of that his
transgression. Hence satan could say, “ that all
the kingdoms of the world were his; for they were
delivered unto him, and he was empowered to
give them to whomsoever he wouldf.” Hence
he is also called the prince of the power of theair;
and likewise the god of this world ; he has also
the command, in some measure at least, ofall the
animal creation : else why is it that the human
race suffer so much ; and even infants, who can­
not be otherwise than perfectly innocent in the
sight of God ? If we go to the lower order of cre­
ation, who are even incapable of transgressingthe
divine law, we see them also suffering in the like
manner with ourselves: and St. Paul, giving a
reason for this, declares, that the creature itself
is subject to vanity, subject to sorrow and death;
and that not willingly, not from its own volun­
tary act, but by reason of him, who hath subjec­
ted all things in hope. This earth then,when God
pronounced his anathema, was not put under an
everlasting curse; but was delivered over to
the dominion of satan, that at God’s appointed
time, it might be freed from this bondage of
vanity and corruption, and again be restored
into the glorious and incorruptible state, and
liberty of the sons of God. .Therefore Adam
* 1 Cor. xv. t St. Lulte, iv.#.
Digitized by Google
7
delivered all over in hope and confidence that
God sooner or later would rescue him and his
posterity, from so forlorn and wretched a state.
And hence it is that St. Paul, as directed by the
holy spirit of God writes thus, “ Then shall the
Son also himself, be subject unto him that put
all things under him:” that is, be subject unto
Adam, who delivered all into the power ofsatan.
And we see now pretty clearly who this son
is It appears that this is none other than the Spi­
rit of the living God, that is the holy Jesus,
(who is one with the Father;) who pledged him­
self to see his disciples again in the character of
Comforter, that is no doubt in the person of
Shiloh ; and declared that he w'ould then abide
with them forever. For this purpose he must as
it were, become subject unto Adam ; must assume
the human body; since without this, he could
not sit as King in Jerusalem, and there
govern the children of Israel; as foretold
by Jacob. Now notwithstanding man has
abided upon this earth nearly six thousand
years, under the cruel tyranny of that infernal
fiend who governs i t ; for to him it is that we must
ascribe all that misery and sorrow experienced
by the human race, from the period of the fall,
down to the present hour: yet is man at this day,
as unable to devise any means for the purpose of
stemming the current of that violent& cruel rage,
manifested under the dominion of this fiend; as
he was at the very first. Nevertheless holy writ
declares that a period shall come to all our woes;
and mankind shall live free from misery and
trouble, and even from death. To accomplish
this great end, it is therefore necessary,
that some highly exalted character, do tabernacle
npon this earth among the sons of men; since
uone but the arm of Almighty Power is, or
Digitized by G o o g l e
8
Can be capable of rescuing the descendants of
Adam, from the fangs of so inveterate, and
withal so potent an adversary.
That this great Personage was to come in the
latter days, in some visible form, is evident
from our Lord’s own words to his disciples. “ I
will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the
vine, until that day when 1 drink it new with
you, in my Father’s kingdom that is, the king­
dom of God ; the arrival of which, we have been
ao long imploring of God the Father, through
the intercession* and by the positive order of
God the Son: Thy kingdom come—and this
kingdom is thus to be established, that God may
be all in all : that is, that God may fill both
heaven and earth with his sacred and visible
presence : that God may dwell among and be in
lii» people ; in order that his sacred will may be
done, without the intervention or interruption of
evil; and- as punctually and faithfully by the
descendants of Adam, here upon earth ; even a*
by the holy angels in heaven.
Our Lord likewise informs us, that when this
sacred person shall come, he shall reprove the
world of judgment; because the prince of this
world is judged. Indeed, where the presence of
God is, there Satan can never come; and of
course Satan will at that time, throw up the-
reins of government, and flee to his own place* .
Then will sin and sorrow cease ; neither shall
there be any more pain or any more death; but
mankind will be free from trouble: and will live-
happily upon this earth, as do the holy angels
in heaven. Nay, perhaps much more so; for
this consideration more especially, because the
holy Jesus, God’s beloved Son, did not only,
condescend to die for our sins; but as a conse­
quent of that his death, hath procured for us
Digitized by ^ . o o Q i e
this great, indeed I had almost said this infinite
degree of happiness.
Oh, how great is the goodness of God! t !
We find David frequently petitioning—Lord
remember the son of thine handmaid !David, out
in this address,eannot havere ference to his own
mother, nor yet to the Virgin Mary; but to a
descendant of his house, who at some future
period, and by a supernatural power, should
bring forth a son to ascend his throne. And
therefore as the words are prophetical, as well
as petitionary, they may thus be paraphrased-—'
“ 'O Lord, remember thy promise, and conde­
scend to visit this earth, in the Son of thine hand­
maid; and to take the reins of government (for
thine alone it is to govern) and hasten the glory
of the latter day, when sin and sorrow shall
cease; and come among us, that by thy sacred
presence, thou mayest promote the happiness of
thy people, and dwell in, and with them, here
upon earth, a thousand years.”
St. Peter, in his address to the people, on the
day of pentecost, when speaking on the out­
pouring of the Holy Spirit, says, “ This is that
spoken of by the prophet Joel*.” The apostle
is very just in this his observation; this was cer­
tainly a fulfilment of that prophecy ; but it was
jn part only; this was the commencement of
that great and wonderful work of God; but its
entire completion was reserved for some future
day; since, at the time the apostle speaks of,
but very few individuals, compared with the
whole of the human race, were thus gifted; and
the extension of this divine favour was also
quickly withdrawn. But we look for a period
when the words of this prophet shall have their
* Joel, ii
B
9
Digitized by L ^ o o Q i e
10
Entire and complete fulfilment. And according
to this same prophet, this day is now at hand ;
seeing we have before us all those signs which
lie declares should precede that period—the out­
pouring of the Holy Spirit upon all flesh. And
added to these, we see other predictions fulfilling
—we see the rod coming forth from the stem of
Jesse, and the branch issuing out of his roots,
in the person of Shiloh, as mentioned by Jacob.
This same sacred character was likewise spo­
ken of by the prophet Balaam, full 3260 years
since; who, though a wicked man, on this occa­
sion nevertheless was compelled to speak oply
what God should put into his mouth. His
words are, “ There shall come a star out of
Jacob, and a sceptre shall rise out of Israel; and
shall smite the corners of Moab ; or, as the ori­
ginal expresses it, smite through the Princes of
Moab; and he shall destroy alt the children of
Sheth*.” This is a character which Jesus in
his capacity, as Saviour of the world could not
futfill; it therefore does not refer to him, but to
some other, and without the shadow ofa doubt,
to the person to whom 1 have applied it. Upon
this same person, the prophet Isaiah declares,
“ shall rest the spirit of wisdom and understand­
ing, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit
of knowledge, and of the fear of the Lord:
and that he shall smite the earth with the rod of
his mouth ; and with the breath of his lips shall
slay the wickedf.’1 and that in his days, “ the
wolf shall lie down with the kid ; and the cow
and bear shall feed, and their young ones s-hall
lie down together ; and the lion shall eat straw
like the ox ; and none shall hurt or destroy, for
the earth shall be full- of the knowledge
of the Lord, as the waters cover the
seasj” In the ninth chapter of this?
Xamber?, x*iv. 17. } Isai. x:. 2. 3. 4. ; Isui, vi,6. 7. 8^
Digitized by t ^ o o Q i e
11
prophet, the blessed Redeemer is spoken of
where it is said, “ Unto us a Child is born,unto
us a Son is given ;and his name shall be called,
Wonderful, Counsellor, The Mighty God, The
Everlasting Father.*” Whereas in the eleventh
above quoted, a person is spoken of who should
in some measure be subordinate to this First, in
that it is said, The Spirit of the Lord shall rest
upon him; that is, the Spirit ofthe mighty God,
the everlasting Father, spoken of in the preced­
ing chapter ; and this spirit so resting upon him,
should make him of quick understanding in the
fear of the Lord ; an expression which can in
no wise be applicable to the holy Jesus, who
declared that he was one with the Father.
Neither in his days, while the holy Jesus was
upon this earth, did that wonderful harmony
subsist as here mentioned, throughout the whole
of creation ; but every thing continued to hurt
and destroy as before. Therefore as this happy
period is yet to come, we have a right to look
tor its arrival under the government of Shiloh,
who is certainly the person here mentioned :
Indeed, 1 see not how the words can apply to
any other. We may therefore go on with our
favourite theme; and urge with great propriety,
that God will forthwith in this our day, fulfil
what he has spoken by the prophet Joel, “ I
will pour out my Spirit upon ALL FLESH, and
your sons and your daughters shall prophesy;
and also upon the servants and handmaids of
those days will I pour out my Spirit.1
!-” Yes,
on the arrival of this period, God will send
forth his servants, commissioned even as were
the apostles, to exhort all nations to prepare
themselves for the presence ©f the holy Shiloh,by
Isaiah, ix. 3. f Jod, ik 23,23.
Digitized by v ^ o o Q l e
Teperitance,and an acknowledgement of the truth
as it is In J esus: for the Saviour declares, that
t*his sacred person, the Comforter, whom he
should send in the latter days, and who was to
abide with his people for ever, should convince
the world of sin ; because they honoured not the
Redeemer as God, and attended not to his com­
mand; If ye believe in God, believe also in me,
for 1 came forth and proceeded from God. And
these persons will be gifted also in like manner,
as the first pious preachers of Christianity, with
the power of healing every disease with only
the word or touch; and will even be enabled to
raise the dead, where it may be requisite, to
convince the world that they are really sent
from God.
In still further proof respecting our subject,
tVe refer to Esdras: “■
Esdras saw upon-Mount
Sion, a great people whom he could not number;
atl of them praising the Lord with songs; and in
the midst-of them a young man of high stature,
taller than any of the rest ;* and upon every one
of their heads W
e set crowns and became
himself still more exalted, for this his act of
beneficence arid condescension ; and upon Esdras
asking who he was, an angel answered him and
said, This isthe Son of God-whom they confessed
in the world. This Son of God can be none
other- than the great and mighty Shiloh, promised
by the Saviour of the world, as the Governor,
and the stay, and comfort of his people, who
should abide with them for ever. Therefore
Shiloh is no Ies6 a person than the Holy Ghost,
visible in human form.
* Highly ex*It*'(l, beingflic Sunof.G
ut]. t $Extras, ly. 1.
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
Why Esdras’s Works are deemed Apocryphal
is, perhaps, easily ascertained. Esdras tells us,
“ that in forty days he penned two hundred and
four books;*” and when those days were eaded,
the Highest commanded him openly to publish
^he first that he had written, that the worthy
and unworthy mieht alike have access to them j
(see that denominated Ezra;) but he was or­
dered at the same time, to preserve the seventy
last for the perusal of the wise only ; that is, not
merely the literati, but the worthy, as noticed in
the preceding verse, those who were wise unto
Salvation. Therefore it has been, it should seem,
uniformly the andeavour of that pious soul, to
accomplish this great work; most probably in
influencing the minds of the various synods and
councils, from the earliest period of the church
to the present day ; lest they should see the
beauties contained in those his seventy books,
and acknowledge them to be from God; in which
case, as the prophecies are in general so easy to
. be unfolded, it is not unlikely, humanly speak­
ing, but that the great end might in some
measure be frustrated, by the text being thus laid
open before the time. Therefore it is, we sup­
pose at least, that we find, those his writings,
now especially that they are about to be fulfilled
and brought into repute in the ChristianChurch,
almost universally rejected. And this perhaps,
and no doubt, but that when the time shall
arrive, these sacred writings may at once shine
forth with such splendid Refulgence,as to strike
the world with awe and astonishment; and thus
convince many of thair error, and bring them
unto God.*
* 2 E* 'fas xiv. 4^, &c.
| lhere caube no doubt, but that many of God’s ennueut servant* have
Digitized by
1+
If the reader wish to know \Vhy I make choice
of the scripture ofEsdras.in support of the cause
1am embarked in, I do it because firmly persua­
ded that these his works were dictated by the
Holy Spirit of God, even as other parts of the
sacred volnme; and this is proveable from his
having inserted in them several wonderful things,
and prophetic; among many which might be
adduced, we fix only on one, which will be
sufficient for our present purpose; read the
eleventh, and two following chapters: you will
there find a prophecy, containing a history of
England from the time of King John, down to
the present period. But as this is already ex­
plained in a work entitled, “ Reasons for the fall
of Man,” 1 do not take upon me to pen down
particulars, but refer rather to that treatise; as
my business in this address, as much as possible,
is to study brevity and usefulness.
Now to our purpose, which is f u l l y to sup­
port the character Joanna Southcott did assume.
Therefore, Reader, take the following—peruse
it without prejudice, and God prosper it to thy
good.
certain dalles to perform, after they cease to dwell upon this earth. Esdras
it seems was appointed to preserve these Writings for the perusal of the
worthy only, and yet they were to be published to the world. And for this
tut!, no other mode, one should imagine, at least, could have been adopted
by him than that above referred to. Look into the 18th chapter ofGenesis,
and 19th verse, and .you will there see a case in point. “ 1 know Abraham,
that lie will command his children, and his household alter him, that they
shall Keep the way of the Lord, to dojustice and judgment ; that the Lord
may bring upon Abraham, tha1 which.he hath spoken of him.** Now the
Scriptures mention no Children born to Isaac, until after the death of his
Father; therefore this office, which Abreham had to perform, could not b r
lolly tntcred ou, until seme lime alter he had ceased to exist on this earth.
Digitized by Google
15
The sacred texts of scripture which I have
fixed on, as coming nearest to my argument,
will be penned down without comment; because
the words are sufficiently explicit, and cannot
■well be taken in any other sense, than as point­
ing directly to my design. It appears indeed,
and that clear as the noon-day sun without a
cloud, that Joanna Southcott, or some such cha­
racter, together with the chief of those persons
and circumstances, which were to' be attendant
on her, the various offices to be sustained, and
the duties to be performed, (comparatively even
the whole it seems, ot what she was required to
do,according to the tenor of her own writings)are
so clearly stated in the sacred text, as to render
it next to impossible, for any one to err in the
application. However, I have thought it no
more than my duty, to point out by small but
appropriate notes, at the bottom of the different
pages, those passages which l principally have
an eye to in this work; and hope the reader will
not take umbrage, or vet deem me over-officious
in thus attempting to explain what the sacred
text expresses so clearly, -as to render explana^
tion almost unnecessary.
One thing I cannot omit stating in this part of
the work : this Book of Esdras has evidently beep
penned more than 2200 years ; and considered as
a prophecy, its authenticity mu$t therefore be
highly respectable.
Digitized by { j o o o l e
16
II. ESDRAS.
CHAP. I.
Verse 9. How long shall I forbear them untd
whom 1have done so much good ?
12. Speak thou therefore unto them, saying*
Thus saith the Lord.
13. I led you through the sea, and in the
beginning gave you a large and safe passage; I
gave you Moses for a leader, and Aaron ior a
priest.
14. I gave you a light in a pillar of fire, and
great wonders have 1 done among you, yet have
ye forgotten me, saith the Lord.
17. ‘ Where are the benefits that I have done
for you ? When yew'ere hungry and thirsty in
the wilderness, did you not cry unto me,
18. Saying, why hast thou brought us into
this wilderness to kill us?
19. Then had 1 pity upon your mournings,
and gave you manna to e at; so did ye eat angels*
bread.
20. When ye were thirsty, did I not cleave the
rock, and waters flowed out to your fill ? J?or the
heat l covered you with the leaves of the trees.
21. I divided among you a fruitful land.
28. Have I not prayed you, as a father bi's
sons, as a mother her daughters, and as a nurse
her young babes:
29. That ye would be my people, and I should
be your God; that, ye would be my children,
and 1should be your Father ?
30. I gathered you together, as a hen gathereth
.her chickens under her wings.
Digitized by i ^ o o Q i e
1?
The preceding verges are herje inserted,chief!)
to shew the wonderful loving-kindness of God '
towards his Israel; not, Reader, that thou
shouldest presume, but that thou mayest with
the greater degree of pleasure and confidence,
entrust thine all into his hands, as into the hands
of a faithful Creatorw ho will in compassion
to his creatures, be faithful to his promise. Hath '
he said, and shall ho not do it?' Heaven and .
earth may pass away'; but his word, shall not :
pass away.. For thy consolation therefore, per
ruse the ensuing verses, which are a call to the .
Gentiles, and really do abound with mercy,
; 2*. What shall I do unto thee, G Jacob ?thou,
Judah wouldest not obey me: I will turn me to
other nations, and unto those will I give my •
name, that jhfey may keep my statutes. •
35. Your nouses will 1 give to a people that
shall come; which not having heard of me, yet
shall believe me ; to whom 1 have shewed no 1
signs, yet they shall do that 1have commanded
them. 1
' 36. They have seen no prophets, yet they ',
shall call their sins to remembrance, and ac­
knowledge them.
; 37. 1 take to witness the grace of the people i
to come, whose little ones rejoice in gladness,
and though t h e y h a v e not seen me WITH1
BODILY EYES, YET IN SPIRIT THEY BELIEVE
WHAT I SAY.*
• 38. Behold what glory'; and See the people
that cometh from the east:
’39. Unto whom I will g*Ve for leaders, Abra-,
ham, Isaac, and Jacob, Oseas, Amos, and Mi-
eheus, Joel, Abdiel, and Jonas, ,
* JoaiuaaSouihcett’s sealed people*
Digitized by Google
40. Nahum, and Abacuc, Sophonias, Aegeus,
Zachary, and Malachy, which it called also an
angel of the Lord.*
CHAP.IL
Verse 10. Thus saitb the Lord unto Esdras,
Tell my people, that I will givp them,the king­
dom of Jerusalem, which t would have given
unto Israel,f
11. Their glory also will I take unto me,J'
and give these the everlasting tabernacles,lyhich
1 hadprepared for them.
, 14, Take heavep,andiearth,to .w.itneaai .1 h*?«
broken tp^ eyil ip pieces, and created thegopd^ ;
for i liveaa^ the Loi-df, ..
• That b to say, Persons endued with the Spirited Power et those
effiment Servantsof God.
t ^ h it is* those who believe in the Holy Shiloli j arid <
u the Psalmist
otye^res, kits this,sacred $ou <ofGod,, This expression occurs In the second
P^alm ^ the whole of whicl} speaks pointedly to this same pet^KW, and.not
to the Redeemer; because the Office therein msutioned which thispfeyft j
Personage js to sustain, in no ^ass whatever ip, or can be ^ppfh^ble |o the
Saviour; for this Son ol God is to reside upon tliisearjh, aad tojiave the ^
command of all that dwell upon it. And moreover it b said, that ha ,
•hall rule with a rod of iron, and break and dash in pieces all who oppose
his authority; therefore the Psalmist advices all nations, and all human t
authorities, to serve him, and meekly to submit to his sovereign will a
because, fof the reasimsjust stated, all opposition must be in vain. - ’ *
$ Their glory, }hat u, This Son qt God, (upon,whom U
sIsaiah observes,
xxlv. £4,they shall hang all the glory of bis Father’* house) shall Uk*
their glory, that b, th$ rejgus of their governm ^^to hi* bands, ai^d shall
* sit upon the throne of hb Father Payid, in Jc^us^m,
§ Joanna Soutl^cott, according to her w riling?cam^,by pod*s appoint_
in'ent, to bring the good fruit to mankiud, even as Eve (ducked the evil,.
See her lamentation for the fall, in the Sixth Book pn the strange Effect
•f Faith; than which *a liner composition upon the subject was neves
penned; and no wonder, because dictated by the Ho!^Jesus, whv ha* beeur
frequently seen at her tide,- commun'catinf to her vrhut she siuuld hrite.
Digitized by
I*
15. Mbtherembrtcc thy children, and bring
them up whh glkdneto; make their feet that m *
pillar; for i have chosen t h e e , aaith the
Lord.
16. Those that be dead will I raise up again
from their places, and bring them out of their
grates.*
. J7* Fear OOt, theii mother of the children; fdr
I have chosen thee, with the Lord.f
IS. For thine help will 1 send my servants,
Esay and Jeremy, after whose counsel I have
sanctified and prepared for thee, twelve trees,'
laden with divers fruits.^
19. And as many fountains flowing with milk
and honey,i and seven mighty mountains, where*
upon grow roses and lilies ;* whereby 1 will fill
thy chi'dren with joy.,
28. The heathen shall envy thee, but they
shall be able to do nothing against thee, saith
the Lord.
29. My hand shall cover thee, so that thy
children shall not see hell.
S3. I Esdras received a charge of the Lord,
upon the Mount Oreb, that 1 should go unto
Israel; but when I came unto them, they set me
at nought, and despised the commandment of
the Lord. .
34. And therefore I say unto vou, O ye
h e a t h e n , that hear and. understand ; Look for
your SHEPHERD, he shall give you everlast-
• Joann* Soathcott hath declared in heir works, that those of the sealed
people who shall leave this earth before the happy day arrive,shall at that
period return again.
t These words shew, that some such character asJoanna Southcott should
make her appearance upon this earth, in the latter day j and speak so
pointedly to thtfpurpose, that it is wholly impossiblefor any one toegjstake
their meaning, or understand them as applying to any otherperson.
t J. S. Twelve Judge* j J, S. Twelve Jury, f J. S. Seven Stars,
C 8
^Google
so
mg M t; for he is nigh at hayiii that shall
tame in the. end tf>.the- world. .
Glory to God in the highest,
Oil Earth Peace,
J ' Good-will towards Man.
All hail, thou gracious, and ever blessed King,
SHILOH!!!
ii. ESDRAS, ii. 38,36, 37, 20, S i,23.
. Readers, arise, stand up, behold the number
of those that are sealed for the feast of the Lord.
The long expected day is arrived ; thy God is
coming to tabernacle upon this earth, therefore
prepare to meet him. . Flee the shadows of this
world—receive the gift that is given you and be
glad, giving thanks to him that hath called you
to the heavenly kingdom.. . .
Do right to the widow—Judge for the father­
less—Hfeal the broken and weak—Defend the
msiimed,- and laugh not a lame man to scorn—
Give to the Poor—Defend the Orphan—Clothe
•the Naked; and God hath declared, that he
will give you the first place in his Resurrection.
Praise God from whom
A L E ' BLESSINGS FLOW,
Praise him all Crea*
TURES HERE RELOW.>
Let EVERY THING that hath BREATH
, PRAISE THE LORD.
Rev. 21. John saw the Holy City new Jerusa­
lem>coming down from God out.of heaven: pre­
Digitized by ^ ooQle
21
pared as a bride adorned for her husband, having;
the glory of Gcd. And he saw no temple therein,
for the Lord God Almighty, and the Lamb, are
the temple of it.
The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth! Rev. .19, 6.
Mark 11. Hosanna! Blessed is he that cometh
in the name of the Lord ! Blessed be the king­
dom of our father David, that cometh in the
name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!
Psalm 22. All the ends ofthe world shall now
remember, and. turn unto the Lord, and all the
kindreds of the nations shall worshio before him;
for the kingdom is the Lord’s: and he is the
governor among the nations.
Psalm 47* Sing praises, sing praises unto our
God ! sing praises, sing praises unto our King;
for God is the King of all the earth.
Psalm 93. The Lord reigneth, he is clothed
with majesty: the Lord is clothed with strength.
Isaiah. 60. Arise, be enlightened; for thy light
cometh, and the glory of Jehovah is risen upon
thee. Though darkness cover the earth, and
gross darkness the people: Jehovah shall rise
upon thee, and his glory, shall .be seen, upon
thee. And the gentiles shall come to thy light;
andkings to the brightness of thy rising. There­
fore thy gates shall be open continually, they
shall not be.shut day nor night: that men may
bring unto thee the wealth of the gentiles ;
violence shall no more be heard.in. thy land,
wasting nor destruction within thy borders: but
thou shalt call thy walls salvation, and thy gates'
praise. Thy sun shall no more godo.wn, neither
shall Ihy moon withdraw itself; for Jehovah
shall be thine everlasting light. Thy people also
shallbe all righteous* they shall inherit the land
Digitized by Google
f t
., tite oratich of my planting, the work of
tny hands, that I may be glorified.
' Rev.21. And there shall in no wise enter into
this holy, city any thing that defileth, neither
whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a
tie ; but they which are writen in the Lamb's
bode of life.
PSALM LXXII.
1;
S hiloh a blest sceptre shall bear;
Gifts beyond Solomon receive,
That under his judicious care,
The People happily may live:
Then from the mountains peace shall flow,
And plenty from the hills below.
t.
The righteous shall abound in peace,
Until the moon her motion ends;
His large dominions shall increase,
As far as sea or land extends:. •
In him the wilderness shall trust,
And all his foes shall lick the dust.
3. ’
, The neecly he’ll not only love,
But shew to them his saving light;
From fraud and force he'll them remove,
Their blood is precious in his sight.
To him, who shall for ever live,
Their gold shall the Sabeans give.
Digitized by Google
H e firstiour fervent pray’rs shall hear,
Andthen our everlasting praise;
T^he mountains corn and trees shall bear,
Such as proud Libanm does raise:
And his lov'd city he shall bless,
.‘With ever-flourishing increase. •
-
5.
His Messed name shall time outlive,
His glory shall outshine the sun;
Then Israel praise to him shall give,
For all the wonders he hath done;
And ail mankind his fame rehearse,
Whose glory fills the Universe.
4.
IT is evident from the preceding arguments,
and texts of holy w rit; that some such charac-
ter as we have all along endeavoured to Support,
must come forward : and as Joanna Jkuithcott
has not only, so far appeared in that character,
but was likewise the first who ever announced
such a subject to the world ; we must give her
credit; and though a veil be thrown over the
case for. the present, yet still what-has recentlv
occurred may be only to fulfil that spoken of in
the 12th chapter of the .Revelations, “ There
appeared a woman in heaveu; and she being
with child, travailing in birth, and pained to be
delivered; brought forth a man child, who was
to rule all nations.” As this woman was seen
in heaven, and there travailing in birth; there
can be no doubt, bat that she was there to bring
Digitized byg o o g l e
forth this child in heaven: and the text in great
measure upholds the idea, in that it is said,-
“ the child was caught up to the throne ofGod;
and to die woman were given two wings of a
great eagle ; that she might FLY into her place:” ,
which shews, that her place could not be upon
this earth; as there needed no wings to mover-
from one part to.another. Therefore Joanna.'
Southcott may even yet be the person she has
represented herself. And the sacred text goes
on to state that she should remain in this place
tor a time, anJ times, and halt a time, that.is
1260 days, as mentioned in another part of the
chapter, being the exact prophetical number of
days, contained in three years and an half.
Until God shalL wuhdraw the veil, human,
reason can pry no further. Her followers must'
therefore patiently wait trie appointed time.
\Ycoler, riwtcf, Huundsditcb.
Digitized by Google
