{"name":"Primum Mobile 8789","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1814__placidus_de_titus_cooper___primum_mobile.pdf","mytitle":"Primum Mobile","mylang":"de"}
)
K,
PRIMUM RIOBILE,
WITH THESES TO THE THEORY,
AND CANONS FOR PRACTICE;
wherein is demonstrated,
no! '
ASTRONOMICAL AND PHILOSOPHICAL PRINCIPLES,
Till *
NATURE AND EXTEN
CELESTIAOL INFLUX
UPON
The Mental Faculties and Corporeal
Aﬁctions' of Man ,
_ containing 7
‘ THE MOST RATIONAL AND BEST APPROVED
MODES OF DIRECTION,
BOTH IN ZODIAC AND MUNDO:
ntmpliﬂcdln
THIRTY RE MARKABLE NATIVITIES
0' Til
Most Eminent Men in Europe,
Accordinl: to the Prinviplvs or the Author. mu down in his
“ Celestial Philosophy. ‘
=7.
“ Originally written in Latin, '
By DID/ICUS PLACIDUS DE TITUS, ./
blathemalician to His Serene Highness Leopold William
Archduke of Austria.
The Whole ccrqfuliy hnnsldltd, and corrccttd ﬁom the be“ Latin Edih'vns.
Illustrated with N01 [-15 and an APPENDIX, containing
Icl'ﬂ'ﬂl 14ngat Addition: to the Work,
BY JOHN COOPER,
Teacher of ﬁre Mathematics. \
Manon:
"PRINTED AND Punusuan BY DAVIS AND DlCKSON.
No. 17, St. Munln'a le Grand, Ncwgnt'e Street, Clacapairlc: '
5°“! 1'90. by 111 Boobellcts and Ntqutn in the Unich Kingdom.
fr
.5.
l.4l\i
I I I .
Emma, 351mm; 112 Qiztuz.
Engraved and Published by DAVIS and DICKSON, ' - ‘3
No. 17,8t. Martin'ulo-Gnod, London. , .
A
SHORT ACCOUNT
OI THI'
AUTHOR AND ms warrmas.
. _§._.
THE Author of this work, Dnmcus
PLACIDUS de Tr'rns, an Italian Monk, was
a native of Bononia, and was Mathematician
to Leopold William Archduke of Austria.
It is very much to! be regretted that we
are not in possession of sufﬁcient data to.
give any very satisfactory account of this
most extraordinary Mathematician and' Phi
losopher. I
In the year 1647, he published that most
elaborate Treatise known-by the appellation
ofhis Celestial Philosophy, under the title of
“ Questionum Physiomathematicarum Libri
“ Tres, in quibus ex naturae principiis hu
“ jusqui desideratis demonstratur Astrologia
y “ pars illa, quae ad Metrologiam, Medici
. __ i .~
4...- v _ ______,~ ,
__.
\
M ~m1- A __|~_»~
iv accoum' OF "m! AUTHOR, Ste.
“ nam, Navigium, 8t Agricultarum spectat;
" cum 12 Exemplis in ﬁne.” This valua
ble Work was printed in quarto\ at Milan,
and dedicated to Cardinal Fachinette. It
is observable that the title-page of this cu
rious book bears the name “ Didacus Prit
tus,” although the Dedication is signed
Placidus de Titus. ‘In this Work, both the
Physical and Mathematical parts of Astro
logy are most clearly explained, and demon;
strated by many curious Diagrams.
_ It was from this book that Mr. Partridge
took all the best of the matter which he in
serted in his Opus Reformaturn and Defectio
Gmmnoughméiy rarely acknow
ledged the obligation.
In 1657, the present Work was printed at
Padua, under the title of “ Tabulw Primi
“Mobilis cum Thesibus ad Theoricen, 8t
“ Canonibus ad praxim, additis in rerum
-“demoustrationem, 8c supputati‘onem Ex- _
“ emplum Triginta clarissimorum natalium
“ Thematibus.” This Work was also printed
in 4to, and dedicated to Leopold William
Archduke of AuStria. . -
account or ran au'ruon, &c. v
A second edition was printed, at Mi
lan, in 1675. The Theses preﬁxed to this
book are, a Synopsis of the former Work,
and contain a short abstract of each Chap
ter, detached from the arguments, reasons,
and proofs, upon which those Theses are
founded; and after the Nativities, are in
serted, a Collection of Tables for Directions,
and aTable of Common Logarithms. He
likewise published some Ephemerides, known
by the pame of the Bononian Ephemeris, but
for what number of years I cannot say, as
they never yet came to my hands. But it
appears, from the observations to be found
in Partridge’s Mene Tekel, that they con- .
tain some curious matter applicable to the
Mundane part of Astrology. It is rather
extraordinary that this great man never
published his own Geniture, if he knew the
time of birth; perhaps, the only reason was,
his singular modesty.
THE EDITOR
T0 the Reader.
Benevolent Reader!
IT is humbly presumed that
the extremely imperfect and mutilated state
of the former edition of' this Work would
alone form a sufﬁcient apology for submit
ting the present Edition to your candid pe
rusal, as every possible care and, attention
have been b?§_l_())!€§ to. make ita ﬁn: simile
offh’e‘Original, until you arrive at that part
of the Work which is composed of Tables,
which, from length of time, are now be
come obsolete, and by far too incorrect to
bear investigation by the present improved
state of Astronomy, and- are, on that ac
count, for the most part omitted; it be
ing‘in contemplation to publish a more
useful collection for this purpose. The
Reader will here ﬁnd their use amply sup-i
plied by Trigonometrical Precepts, exem
. “MM__A A _.
7M.“ . sur- _ V
ran nm'roa 'ro THE amine. vii A
pliﬁed by the “Requisite Tables” of Dr.
Maskelyne, the late Astronomer Royal; and,
by attending to these Precepts, he will be
enabled to compute his Data, and thereby
his Arcs of Direction, with more facility, '
and to a. much greater degree of accuracy,
than by any set of Tables yet extant.
Inorder to render this Edition as com
plate as possible, the Reader will ﬁnd a
variety of useful Notes at the bottom of the
pages, and an Appendix containing some
curious observations and selections not ge
nerally known. The reputation of the Au~
thor, and the merits of the Work, being so
universally established in the scientiﬁc
world, entirely preclude the necessity of
any eulogium upon either. It is a fact
which is well known, that the Original of
this Work is so extremely scarce, that ﬁfty
Guineas have been refused for a copy ; and
from this scarcity of the Original, we have,
in some measure, to regret that it was for
merly published so imperfectly.
1 The manner in which it wasbefore elicited
to the public was as follows : About the time
v‘i'ri - 'rnn non-on TO m: nines.
of the commencement of Sibly’s “ Illustra
tion ofAstrology,” Dr.~ Browne, of Islington,
being in possession of a Latin copy, caused
the same to be translated into English; and
that translation he lent to Mr. Benjamin
Bishop, then Master of Sir John Cass’s'
School, Aldgate, who copied it, and applied
to Mr. Brown for the loan of the Latin
copy, for the purpose of copying the Ta
bles, but which was refused. Afterwards,
a friend oer. Sibly’s borrowed Mr. Bishop‘s
copy’only for a limited number of hours;
and, in that time, it was clandestiner co~
pied, without Mr. Bishop‘s knowledge or
Consetﬂ’, and published by Sibly, under the
title of “ Astronomy and Elementary ,Phi
losophy,” but in the-most incorrect state
imaginable; for, in that Work, there is not
one single page which is correct, nor had
the publishers the means of making it so, as
they were not in possession of either the
Original Work, or a correct Translation,
whereby to rectify the errors committed in '
the hurry ofcopying the book.
In this Edition, every line of the Transla
1
MIMI-7.;
ran nmroa To run 32mm. ix
tiou has been very carefully compared with
the Latin, and made as correct as possible;
so that the lovers of science will now be in
possession of a book upon which they may
rely with conﬁdence, without the danger of
being misled. ‘ I
That this effort to restore PLACIDUs'to
his primitive purity may tend to the ad
vancement of science, and be of general
utility to every candid inquirer after truth,
'is the sincere wish and desire of their most
'humble and devoted servant,
JOHN COOPER,
No. 21, Baldwin's Gardens,
.. l I I: GrayfslnnLaue.
N. B. Arithmetic. Algebra, metry, Trigonometry,
Navigation, Astronomy, Projection of the Sphere, the
u“ of the Globes, the 4“ of Direction, ‘4“. uth
on moderate Terms. 1
.14
i - THE AUTHOR
To the Reader.
2;
Wer regard to the revolutions of the
Stars and their efficient power, no candid
reader will deny that a genuine and true
science may exist, though for a man to make ‘
a full acquirement in it, must doubtless he
acknowledged no very easy task; and the
more particularly, because its object is by
nature incorruptibier'“ its properties alto
gether immutable; and the passions are
concluded in an uniform manner.
'We learn from the unanimous consent of
Philosophers and Professors of Theology, as
well as" from the Egyptians, Arabians, Per
sians, JI/Itidt'é‘, and other very extensive
nations, that this science was cultivated, in
the ﬁrst place, among all the natural sciences,
by kings and the greatest princes, and it
was also held in the highest honour; the
truth of which is found in several places
rr'in Kin-non i6 m ansnni. xi
among their historical annals. Having al
ways’ had aii eager desire from my youth'tb '
attain it, I beldly entered upon it, with no
less‘cheer'fulness of mind than'hopcs of ac
quiring it. In this pursuit I have spent
'several' years, labduring niuch.;'but l'w'as
greatly oﬁ'ended‘ at many" things the pro
fessOrs had' lately introduced as discoveries,
determining, -that,imless they were strictly
conformable" to-reason'“ and experience, and
the opinions ofthe greateSt' doctors in physics
and mathematics,'to lay asideentirely their
whole works’;‘ being, ~ likewise, on: the point
of bidding adieu to all WatChings; th‘erefore,
after uniting all the powers of my under
standing, I secretly-determined to- investi
gate the chief causes and ﬁrst principles of
thistsciencc, which, by arguing from reasoiis,
made pi‘o‘and e'on ; and aslifound‘theni every
where to be probable, and agreeable to reason;
I gladly communicated my discoveries to the
professors and my friends; and, happily;‘they
were not treated as ch'imerical; dre'hbugmlre
be unreasonable, but, on the contraryhit'hey
seemed to be'greatly desired 2‘v andi being-fie:
xii TH! Anruoi. To run “Anna.
quently entreated to commit themto writing,
I have published this short extract, or ab
stract, comprehending a very concise theory
and'praxis; to which are subjoined several ex
amples, extracted from very eminent authors,
by whom my own reasons were highly aps
plauded. Under the title of CELes'rrAL
PHiLosornY, I exhibited an universal se~
ties of disputations, wly'ch might represent
‘ the reasons and principles as diﬁ'usedly as
possible, in proportion as time and fortune
gave me liberty: wherefore, having ofered
to the public, and given an explanation of
every athingLs‘grpgewe, ' indeed, surprised
at the strangeness of_ the doctrine; but none
have hitherto attémptecl to oppose the rea
sons and causes on which they depend.
Some, with theiriapplauses, mingjlednu,
small degree of pleasure, [by reaspn th‘at'the
principles of this most noble science, which i
were formerly natural, and aptlyrlsuited to
mason,- were now clearly explained, and.
made evident to the senses: and it is evi‘
dently certain, that they wonderfully agree
with the true nature of things, and corres
nrs en'rnon 10 THE um“. xiii
pond With the aceidental eﬁ'ects ; and among
the philosophical sciences, that of the stars
may, andought, with very good reason,
claim the pre-eminence ; but because of the
difﬁculty of the calculations, which I have
there explained very copiously, being intend
edfor thelearned, students are greatlydiscou
raged, _I have here given another'explanation
for general use, more copious and perspicu
ous, ofall and each of the rules, togethenwith
the tables that are necessary, ,premising what
related to the. knowledge of the theory, in
very short theses, that those who had not
gone through the labour attending dispu
tations might comprehend, in veryv few
words, the causes and principles which I
have laid clown, and from which all this
construction of numbers is derived.
Lastly; I have added, as well to facilitate
calculations as' to conﬁrm the truth of thing3,
the examples of thirty famous men, which
I have extracted, only from’the meet learned
authors. Yet, let everyone remember, that
Nature, in her tombs and eﬁ'ccts, conducteth
herself'so scoretly, that a man’s understand
xiv rm; .wrnon ro rnn'nnanen.
ing cannot ‘trace her footsteps without the
greatest labour and industry, which the many
differences of (opinion maintained among
the professors of‘ philosophy, who disagree
among themselves concerning the nature of
‘ "things, must'eidnce: and do notih'er changes
'and mighty effects, in this vast construction
of 'the world, appear wonderful, and alto;
'getlier unseat-chable? Without doubt, it
must. he confessed that the mind of man is
tooweak to comprehend them; so that no
one can be surprised if the method of calcué
lating should be attended with some dif.
ﬁculty- .4. The work'ofithe" Efﬁcient Inﬁnite
Power and Wisdom is the concord and har-~
mony'of nature; but it is like to inﬁnity,
at least as to the variety of effects.
In a work, the power and wisdom ofthe art
ist are ever perspicuous; what wonder, then,
ifthe understanding of man is utterly un-'
able fully to comprehend the works of God?
For who will endeavour to empty with a cup
the waters of the deep, which is as a drop
in a bucket compared with the Omnipotent?
of the Creator? And shall we, with our
THE AUTHOR TO THE READER. XV
conﬁned powers of understanding, presume
to comprehend, in any shape whatever, the
prodigious extent of the heavens, from an
idea of the immensity of the surrounding
space? The utmost stretch ofhuman thought
cannot attain the least notion of it ! Admire
the rest, which is almost inﬁnite.
Learn, friendly 'Reader, by experience,
that you may have a true enjoyment in the
wonderful works of the Mos'r H1011.—
Adieu !
1 ____ QB‘W_~
. T-MA6:5
EXPLANATION
0' TB!
Icuasacrmsussn IN rms worm.
I SIGNS. ', '
‘Y‘ Aries as Libra _
3 Taurus m Scorpio
11 Gemini 4‘ Sagittarius
E Cancer 15> Capricorn
51 Leo .7: Aquarius
m Virgo x Pisces'
PLANETS.
5 Saturn ' -/” 2 Venus
11L Jupiter § Mercury
3 Mars \ 1) Moon
0.Sun Q Fortune
ASPECTS.
<5 Conjunction A Triue
* Sextile 8 Opposition
0 Square
_-’ M“? =-_—-—_~: ——'_"‘-—"
iBrimum mobile.
THESES,
Ham the 'Fras'r Boox qf the Author's
“ CELBS'HAL PanosoPnY.“
1st. IT is impossible for the eﬂicient heavenly causes ‘
(as being so very far distant from things below) to in
ﬂuence sublunary bodies, unless by some medium or
instrumental virtue, by which they are united to bodies,
subjected, or simple, or both. There can be no action
in the subject, which is not aﬁ'ectcd by some active vir.
i me; for if so, the effect might be prodhced in the subject,
without any efﬁcient cause; which is the reason, we say,
that the instrumental cause of the slars is light, and that
this only is sufﬁcient to produce all the four primary
qualities, by which they arrive at the whole species of
natural effects : by motion the stars apply this light, and
we reject a secret inﬂuence as superﬂuous, nay, even
impossible.
2. The principal properties of the light of the stars
are two, (viz.) intension and extension, the less prin-_
cipal colours, which the very senses shew are found in
the stars 5 nor is it to he concluded from thence that the
stars are oorruptible, at least, with regard to-thc whole,
C
2 ramon aroma.
for the strange phenomena, which very frequently appear
to us, demonstrate that thereare changes in the havens;
for colours may be found in inoormptihle bodies: in
short, nothing is visible unless it have a colour. The
other in the stars are ﬁgure, local disposition,
brightness, and dimness : local motion is a kind of
passion “herewith they apply, increase and diminish
their light, rise, set, and reoede, our and at distance.
3. The stars neither act nor suffer alternately in the
heavens; they only receive light from the Sun, which
with alteration they communicate to us from the proper
colour of each ofthem: but they vary their actions in
the inferior subjects, in proportion as they act together
with equal harmony; and this is sufﬁcient for the whole
variety of eﬂ'eets.
4. Though the stars, by their motion in the heavens,
alternately change their'constitutinns, and have a deter
minate degree of intension, and a deﬁnite quantity of
extension of their light, they do notact upon those in
feriors, according to the true and real intension and ex
tension of that light which they have in common, but
only according to the apparent; in respect of which they
join those passable bodies : for this reason, the stars act
\ upon the sublunaries only according to that degree of
intension, and quality of extension of light, by which
they are united to those passable bodies: the less are
their intension and extension, the greater their distance
from the subjected things ; but their action is the same,
with respect to that extension to which they are opposed,
as we very plainly experience in the D . They inﬂuence
according to their situation and proximity to the passable
nmum nouns. 3
subject. Invisible eclipses have no inﬂuence; new phe
nomena act only upon those provincesin which they
aresecu : so that the stars, where they do not rise, are
inactive.
5. The stars are indeed the universal cause, and in
determinate, as to their speciﬁc and individual effects;
list are determined according to the variety of the pew
able subjects and nearest causes : as the G melts wax,
dries up the mud, whitens it, blackms the human skin,
with man generates man, a lion with 2 lion, &c.
6’. The stars cannot be the signs of effects, unless
they are also the causes; wherefore interrogations, in the
I manner of the antiems, have no place in nature, unless
only in eminent effects, in which they move the up
proximate cause of mtural eﬂ‘ects; they also move the
parts, organs, and members of the passable subject. In
the ﬁrms they respect the prents, sex, number, ﬁgure,
Bee. The present state of the planer bringeth forth the
actual effect, according to a pre-ordinate and pro-existent
power, and therefore they are the cause or non-cause,
not only signs. But the constellations, which for the
present bring their effects to act, are the same a: the
muses of pro-ordination; and so of death, 8:0. For
unlike causes cannot bring to act the sigma“ pre
existing, according to the power of the effects. ~
7. And since, to distinguish and know the cfects of
any star, it is necessary to know the diﬂ'erence, nature,
and order of those effects, according to the soundest phi
losophy; after laying down the ﬁrst principles of all
things, Matter, and substantial Form, the primary and
compound qualities, we distinguish all these into two
4
principal kinds, viz'. into the passive or feminine, and
the active or masculine. To the ﬁrst sort, we again
call in matter and quantity, or quality, so far as it is
PRIHUH MOBILI.
passive, with all the other qualities which are derived, ,
from its moisture, dryness, rarity, density, levity, Sec. To
the masculine kind, substantial and material forms, the
qualities which are active, as light, heat, cold, smell,
sound, and all the active virtues of the compormda, 81c.
8. We call commixion a union of altered misci
bles, but we add, perfected by the efﬁcient superiors,
Order and Nature, that is, from a celestial quality, on,
which the concoction of those miscibles depend ; whence
the compounds, which have a larger and more perfect
concoction with those miscibles, and consequently a
more intense celestial quality, are more perfect ; such as
have aless, the contrary.
9. The virtue of the compound, or the qualities,
which, indeed; with respect to the great number, variety,
and effects, deserve our admiration, we do not call ele
mentary, nor proceeding from the elements, but celestial
qualities, which are altogether derived from the celestial
light; wherefore, the elementary and celestial qualities
are of diﬂ'erent kinds: and though the stars may pro
duce elementary qualities in their alternate transmuta
tion, they still produce others more excellent, whereby
they attain the production of the whole species of the
compounds. .' ‘
10. -.The vital heat and radical moisture in animals,
we agree with Aristotle in terming qualities entirely ce~
lestial, produced from the light of G) and ), with the
concurrence (which cannot be denied) of all the other
_‘~--\' _
ancu mourn. 5
stars, from which a distinction is made 05 the whole
diversity of compounds, though of a nature so opposite
to each other, that the luminaries, with the malcﬁes,
generate the poisonous, or the hostile, instead of those
that engender with the benign, and on the contrary;
whence the antipathics and sympathies of things are mu
tually derived. ‘
H. The qualities, both of the compounds and ele
ments, are at ﬁrst powerful, at least, according to nature;
then active: but those that are active have their existence
by successive motion ; for they successively come forth
to action from their powerful stations: for which rea
son they are again restored to their co-natural state of
actual qualities. -'
12. From the vital heat and'radical moisture of the
animal power, arise sensitives, appetitives, digestives,
retentives, expulsives, 8w. distinct from each other, and
each hath its exercise and action; wherefore those powers
have ﬁrst a powerful, then an active existence.
l3. Those vital qualities are extinguished in a two
fold rnanner, naturally, and violently. First, by a final
consumption of a pre-existing power in an extreme old
age; secondly, by a violent extinction, exhibited by a
different concurrent cause.
14. The powers employ their inﬂuence on matter,
suitable to every one of them ; the sensitive on objects,
the vegetative on elcmpnts; which, the more perfect they
are by the concoction of mixture, the greater and quick
er is their nourishment; for it is converted with greater
ease and perfection into the substance of the animal,
8:0.
'I
6 mums aroma.
15. There are four principal colours, viz. white,
black, light, and darkness : by light, we do not mean
that which is diﬁ'used from the Q and from ﬁre, buta
that colour which arises from the intension of that light
which is almost like gold; by darkness, its privation.
But there are some colours which are composed of
celestial qualities, others elementary of these elements;
but there possibly ilcw inﬁnite from their alternate
permixion. ‘White is a colour merely passive, light as
active. .
16. The stars, though they never cease from action,
and causing an alteration in things below, yet from that
change they produce no remarkable eEct, unless in
familiarities. \Ve call the familiarity of the luminaries,
meeting with power, proportional by an inﬂux motion.
Under the name of luminaries, we understand not only
all the stars, but. likewise mamyhemomem; and
we exclude every other place in the heavens which is
void of light, for it is by light only the stars inﬂuence,
as has been said before. _. By the powers-f the conjnuets,
we exclude from the familiaritics tliose stars which can—
not, by any means, be conjoined together; but it is
plain that the familiarities have not their being in the
heavens, but in the inferior passable subject, namely,
according to their mode of receiving them,as is manifest.
0, 17. Authors treat of the various and different dis
tinctions and divisions of the celestial houses, whereof
we only approve of that which Ptolemy places, that is
by the two temporal hours : we reject all the rest as vain,
and quite inconsistent with nature.
18. The signs and houses have not a real distinction
l
'1
in the havens, but in the inﬁerior passable subject, ac
cording to its manner of receiving the inﬂux of theaters;
the signs litewise have a true and certain sex, in the
same manner and masculine, by a proportional inﬂux,
to the places where the active quality commences; fe
minine where the passive; which we shall mention here
after.
19. From the intension of light, proceeds an ac
tive quality; from its extension, a passive; in short,
every natural principle of an active virtue has its rise
from the intension oflight ; but the principle of a passive
virtue, from its extension. [for this reason, the sub
stantial and material Forms, and all the qualities active
in kind, are referred to the Sun; but to the Moon, that
principle, Matter, and all its qualities, passive in kind.
Hence it is manifest, that the Sun has an active virtue,
by reason of the intensiorr of his light; but the Moon,
a passive, by reason of extension, though, in reality,
there are intention and extension in both; but in the
Sun, intension is prevalent, and in the Moon intension
is inconsiderahlc, and extension prevails; and as by its
increase and decrease, it shcws us the various quantity
ofits light, in things it augments and diminishes matter
and moisture. '
20. The variety of colours in the stars produces a
diVersity of effects. Thus the colour of the luminaries
—Q or of gold, is possessed of an active virtue, the
same as the intension of light, for it proceeds from
the intension of light, and, as it were, from the ap
proximate cause. \Vhitc possesses a passive virtue, as
does extension; but these two primary colours relate to
PRIMUM MOBILE.
\
8 raruuu mental.
cﬁ'ects of a simple nature which are excellent; such as
material substances, &c. The other colours in the
stars are the cause of‘ speciﬁc qualities; so the blue and
yellow, such as are in ‘4 and 2 , which are a mixture of
white and gold,'give signs of a temperate nature from
heat and moisture; in the blue, heat is predominant;
in the yellow, moisture; and therefore these two planets
confer that which is good, useful, and pleasant: the
former is masculine, by reason of the too great heat;
the latter, feminine, owing to excess of moisture. Lead
en and ﬁery colours, such as are in I; and 3 , shew an
intemperature, cold and dry in B, hot and dry in 3‘.
b is more cold than dry, and therefore'masculine ,- 8‘
more dry than hot, and therefore feminine.
21. But in general, eﬁ'ects, according to their nature,
properties, passions, motions, Sac. imitate their cause;
for the manner of acting follows that of being. . As the
work of Saturn is unpleasant, rigid, cold, dark, and
black, his motion slow, &c. nay, more, from the passions
of the luminary which proceed from local motion,
follow the passions in the eﬁ'ects; as from access and
recess, follows the access and recess of the passion
and effects; from its near and distant situation,vthe
near and remote action is derived; from its inception,
the beginning of the action; from continuity, its
continuance; from its increase, the increase.
‘22. From the access and near situation of the stars
follows the increase of their light, according to ex~
tension; and from the increase respecting extension,
follows a still greater intension of r the l'ght, aci
cording to the degree, at least in the eﬂ'ect. From
Pmmm momma, 9
the increase of the luminary, with regard to extension,
follows an increase ofmoisture : from a greater intension
of the luminary, follows a greater heat ; and so in every
one of them. Aristotle’s Second General Treatise, page
56, in his researches into the cause of the perpetuity of
the rise and fall of things, informs us, that not only
one inference may assign the cause of this rise and fall,
but also that which contains different motions, to which
the causes accede and recedc, are near or distant in their
constitution; and their access, and near situation, are
' the cause of generation; their recess and distant situa.
tion, of corruption.
23. There is a formation of four conjugations of the
manner of starry inﬂuence, viz. in the luminary's in
crease and near situation; in its near situation and
decrease; in its decrease and distance ; and in its distance
and increase. By these conjugations are constituted
four quarters; First, in the world, which are the circuits
of the stars by day from east to south, from south to
West, from west to the lowest, and from the lowest
to the east. Secondly, in the Zodiac, and the annual
seasons, from 'Y‘ to s,from a! to a, from a to 15*,
from k? to 'Y‘.
24. There are four respects of the planets to the Sun ;
from the apogee of the epicyclc towards the ﬁrst station
(in the D towards thc ﬁrst decatom); from the ﬁrst
station to the perigee; from thence to the second station
(in the D towards the second decatom), at least as far as
the apogee. ' From these are derived an excellent reason,
why the three superiors are supposed to be stronger: if
they are found to be matutine or eastern, from the Q ,
D
10 riumm MOBILE.
the three inferiors vespertine, or western; for then they.
t have a greater degree of light, in which consists their
virtual inﬂuence, and then they are called oriental ; but
occidental, if otherwise. Every one knows how largely,
yet to no purpose, authors have treated of the orien
tality of the planets.
25. From the cardinal points of the world, and the
Zodiac, the stars begin to inﬂuence the four primary
qualities; from the imum cmli and tropic of , mois_
ture; from the ascendant and m, heat ; from the medium
cell and tropic of k9, dI’Yncss; from the west and ﬂ,
coldness ; but by all these means, the stars, though they
have their nature absolute in themselves, they never
theless produce all the four primary qualities, though.
with a difference, on account of the diversity of the
nature of the stars; but they continually increase the
qualities they produce, by advancing successively to the
opposite points; such is the reason they likewise lessen
the contrary quality. . l _ ‘
26. From these, it is inferred, that the inﬂux and
rays of the stars depend on real motion and illumination,
not on the quantity of the celestial spaces nor the situa
tion: and therefore the stars in the cadent houses art:
weak; in the succeedents strong; in the cardinals
. strongest, kc. a. f
t 27. All the active qualities, whether of the elements,
or of the compounds, depend on the horary. extent of
the stars round the World; but because the duration of
things is various,,annual, monthly, andidiumal, with
which Ptolemy agrees in his chapter of those that
have .no Neurishmentpand the Second Stagyu'te and
0
~
i
PRIMUM mount. 11
General Treatise, p. 57. They are diurnal, as being the
ﬁrst and immediate in the order of the work; for in the
order of perfection they are the lowest, and the annual
durations are in the ﬁrst place, by reason of their per~
fection. .
28. The virtual qualities of the elements depend on
411: latitudes of the stars in the Zodiac. The vital qua
lities of such as live through months and years, depend
on the Sun’s place in the Zodiac, and the Moon, in
respect of the Sun, as from present causes, but are pre
ordained by the Sun’s motion round the world, and by
the Moon round the Earth :_ whence the motions of the
directions and progressions are derived. '
29. The diﬂ'erences of the celestial qualities that are
in the compounds, both vital and those that are not
vital, depend on the various congressions and familiarities
of the luminaries, with the other stars both erratic and
ﬁxed, and on the different places in the Zodiac, so far
as they are of a different nature; for from the simple
places, both in the Zodiac, as well as round the world,
that is (if they are thus considered), the primary qua
lities of the elements are derived.
30. The'true moment of the day, on which any one
isborn (laying aside all opinions of authors), is when
the foetus becomes independent on its ﬁnitimate
cause, or its ministry; an immediate inﬂux then takes
place. At the constitution of the celestial moment,
there is no need of its longer perseverance, to make the
cfl'ects the cause of preservation ; for that is impossible ; i
but it is sufﬁcient thatit concur with the nearest causes,
to confer being, and the co-natural qualities: for so it
12 - tutva momma.
is, that he who is born, throughout his whole life has a
reference to, and, as it were, represents the effects; and
as a stamp resembles the seal, so does the constitution
of the stars his nativity.
31. The stars insert their power in an animal, and the
virtual qualities in certain latitudes of a shorter time:
these they pre-ordain with effect. The accidents wnatu~
rally active, operate at their appointed times to the con- '
clusion of life, and begin at the moment of the nati
vity ; but they are the latitudes of days and months, and
pre—ordain successively, therefore orderly, and in co
operation; and they are ready to act at the time pre
ordained, when the favourable constitutions are the same
as their causes of pre-ordination ; for dissimular present
causes cannot produce any eﬁ'ect but what agrees with
them.
32. In the constitution of the stars, the nativities are
said to continue immoveable, as well as the significators
and promittors of eﬂ'ects; and. this only, by reason of
the retrospect of that nativity’s temperament to those
places: for while the stars concur with the nearest
causes in conferring existence, they imprint on that
animal so many degrees of their qualities, as they effect
from those places in which they are found ; and there
fore that animal respects, all its life, the places of the
stars of its nativity, as being always immoveable.
33. But as there is a double motion of the stars, that
is, under the primum mobile, and rbimd the world, by
both which, as we have said, they inﬂuence, we must
consequently suppose, that the signiﬁcators rule over
things subjected to them by this twofold (or double)
rmmm moans. 18
motion, to Wit, under the primum mobile, and round
the world. So in the former moderation, the signiﬁ
cators remain immoveable in the world, 110. in their
horary circles of position; in the latter they are in a
state of immobility in their places immediately under
the prinan mobile: the promittors in the former mode
ration remain immoveable under the prirmtm mobile, but
are moved with their parts of the Zodiac to the horary
circle of position of the same signiﬁcator. In the latter
moderation, they remain immovable in the world, that
is, in the horary circle of position, but are moved in a
manner immediately under the primum mobile, to the
moderator‘s place taken under the primum mobile.
34. \Ve say that the signiﬁcators continue immove
able in their mundane situation. By mundane situation
we mean the horary circle, i. e. (according to Ptolemy)
of unequal hours, not the circles of position which pass
through the common sections of the horizon and meri
dian, as will appear more fully hereafter. Likewise,
when we say that the signiﬁcators in the former modera
tion remain immovcable, in such a situation, we do not
exclude the change of declination; we mean that the
moderators should always continue and advance by their
own real and natural way; as if we speak of the Sun in
the ecliptic, or the Moon in her circle, constituting the
Dragon, in which she is in perpetual motion, and in
which she successively alters her latitude.
35. The Sun, when it is found in the space of_ the
crepusculcs, before rising and after setting, does not re
main there immoveable under the horary circle; but in \
the crepusculines, parallel to the horizon, in which it
. a~M
Ii - _ w-“
hw'r’l ‘
l-t PJUMUM Montur,
always affords us the same degree of the intension of
light, from which equality of the intension of light it
is said to continue immoveable; for if it should, (with
regard to us, vary in the degree of the intension of
light, it could not be said to remain immoveable, but
would be in a state of motion. In, the remaining space
of obscurity; the Sun must be directed, with a reference
from the limits of the crepuscles to the lowest; as if we
should say, from the proportionable division of the ob
scure arcs, they were seminocturnal arcs. This will be
more fully shewn hereafter.
36. Moderators of things are ﬁve, viz. ,the Sun, the
Moon, Medium Gzli, Horoscope of the Country, and
the Lunar Horoscope; every one of these so moderates
its own proper species of things, that it cannot attain to
that which relates to the other: it is necessary to observe
this, that we fall not into error and confusion. ~
- 37. The Aphetic places of the world, or those wherein
are received the moderators of life, are ﬁve, viz. the .
House of the East, the tenth, the ninth, the seventh,
and the eleventh; in any of which the Sum being
found, always becomes the moderator of life; but if
he is absent, the Moon, Sac. according to the doctrine
delivered by Ptolemy in his third book, which we ought
to follow so rigorously, absolutely, and without the
least exception whatever, that whoever, by neglecting
the luminaries, if in the Aphetic places, should receive
the horoscope as the moderator of life, would be guilty
of a very great error, and would be unworthy of the name
of a professor of the. true and natural Astrology.
’ rs _..
.-.
M:- A_ - . H:_.~_._
"—" w -.__t.__
Pitmrm Mosim. - l5
THESES
From the SECOND Boox.
d
38. There are two motions of the stars, whereby they
inﬂuence those ittferiors, that is, under the primum mo
bile, and round the world; but familiarity is nothing
more than a proportional inﬂux, exhibited by the mo.
tion, as has been said. It necessarily follows, that
there are two‘kinds of familiarities of the stars; the
one under the Zodiac, the other round the world : these
two vkinds of familiarities are delivered by Ptolemy in
several places; ﬁrst, in the Almagest, Book viii, chap.
4, in these words :
“ It remains now to write of their aspects : of these,
“ therefore (excepting those that have a mutual forma
“ tion, and are thought immoveable, as when in a
“ right line or triangular aspect, and others of the like),
“ some are aspected to the planets only, and the Sun
“ and the Moon, and parts of the Zodiac; some ~only
“ to the Earth; some to the Earth, together with the
f‘ planets and the Sun and Moon, or parts of the Zo'
“diac,” Ste. From which words, it is evident, that
Ptolemy places these‘ two kinds of familiarity, viz. in
the Zodiac, and towards the Earth, that is, towards the
world.
In the Quadripartite, in the beginning of the ﬁrst
book, he speaks thus: “ There is one which is ﬁrst,
,“ both in place and power, Whereby we discover the
“ conﬁgurations of the Sun and Moon, and motions
€‘ of the stars, both towards themselves and the earth,”
av
16 rnrMUM mourn.
&c. Again, book ﬁrst, “ The stars are said to appear
“ in their proper forms, 8cc. when every one of them
“ are conﬁgurated with the Sun, or even the Moon, in
“ the saine manner as their houses are with those of the
“ luminaries, as Venus in the Sexangular, conﬁgurated
“ with the luminaries, but the Vespertine with the
“ Sun,” Sec. Venus never has the at to the Q in the
Zodiac, as it can only be extended by it 48°; where
fore, unless any one will say that Ptolemy was ignorant
of this (which is absurd), he must of course say, he
spoke of the Sextile in the world. Likewise, in the
third book, chapter of Aphetic places, he says, “ As
“ we are ﬁrst to suppose those Aphetic places, in which
“ it is absolutely necessary to ﬁnd that which is desirous,
“ to obtain thejurisdiction of presiding over life, as round
“ the Horoscope, from the ﬁve parts ﬁrst immerging
' “ above the horizon, to the other twenty-ﬁve succeed
“ ing; and that which conjoins these thirty parts with
“ dexter hexagonal rays, is called the place of the Good
“ Genius. Likewise with quadrangular, or the highest
“ part of heaven above the earth; and with trigonal,
-“ &c. and from no other places.” It is evident, Ptole
my was of this opinion.
39. The familiarity in the Zodiac is the proportion
able inﬂux of the stars by local motion, whereby they
are able to effect a favourable conjunction. That these
familiarities happen, and are powerful only among the,
stars which are there in motion, but that they are pow
erful to the cardinals and rest of. the houses, we abso—
lutcly deny; for omitting other reasons, the stars move
not to the cardinals, by advancing in the Zodiac ; which
I7
is the reason they do not effect any proportional distances
to those cardinals, but the rays are no more than pro
portional distances, Ste.
40. The familiarities of the stars in the world are a
proportionate inﬂux of the stars, agreeable to motion
round the world; and they happen, and are efﬁcacious
in the proportional distances taken by a proportional
division of the diurnal and nocturnal arcs, and no other
way.
41. But because the stars have a mutual motion under
the primum mobile, and round the world, it happens that
they mutually contract both kinds of familiarity ; as Pto
lemy, in the place already cited, insinuates. But fami
liarities, taken in any other manner, and in any other
circle, even in the equator (according, to the opinion of
Maginus), are entirely reprobated, and‘to be rejected.
42. These two kinds of familiarities being given, we
say, that in every kind, neither more nor less than nine
species are found, which are 6, ak, Q, n, A, Sqq,
Bq, 8 , arid parallels called by some Antiscions, which
Kepler, by an exquisite and plain reason, has selected
from their concording harmonies. Of these familiari
ties, the Sextilc, Quintile, Trine, and Biquintile, are
benign ; the Quadrate, Sesquiquadrate, and Opposition,
malign ; the rest indifferent, with the fortunate stars
good, and equally evil with the unfortunate.
43. The latitudinal stars do not commit all their vir.
tual inﬂuence to the ecliptic, but preserve it among
themselves; and ,their greater or lesser proximity to the
ecliptic, adds not to nor lessens their power of acting;
the ecliptic cannot act without the stars, but the Stars
E
PEIMUM MOBILI
\_
ﬂ,- ----\
18 rnnwu Momm.
have their activity in themselves wholly independent of
the ecliptic.
44. The stars alternately conjoined, do not acquire
greater or lesser powers to act in a favourable conjunc- _
tion, which falls out when another is found within the
sphere of the other’s activity, from a greater or less al
ternate proximity; but we only say, that their active
virtues are the more or less conjoined. Under the name
of the Sphere of Activity, we understand those that Pto
lemy has placed, in Jupiter twelve degrees, in Venus
eight degrees, Ste. ‘
45. But the stars which are found in the same partial
longitude, we do not call conjoined in a favOurablc con
junction, if their alternate distance be greater by lati
tude, than is their sphere of activity; as 2 with 8° of
south latitude, is not favourably conjoined with § ,
having a northern latitude, though' they are found in the
same degree and minute of longitude; they may indeed
be said to be conjoined by virtual conjunction, if they
ascend or descend in the same horary circle, or cardinal,
which is one of the species of mundane aspects.
46. The stars therefore should not be cardinally
placed; nor even those that are ﬁxed, with the other
planets, if the latitude distance from the circles of posi
tion be greater than their sphere of activity ; nor ought
any difference to be made between the aspects of the na
tural constitution, and those produced by the motion of
direction in preserving the latitude, as Argol thinks,
there being equal reason in both cases.
47. In defining the intermediate rays, the half latitude
in as and A is not to be observcd, nor rejected in quar
a
PRIMI'M Means. 19
tile, as Blanolinus has taught, whom some authbrs imi
tate: but the latitude of both aspects are to be observed;
for the rays are to be projected from the body of one to
that of another, as it happens that these stars are found
by latitude ; so that in whatever latitude the planet's are,
they emit and receive the rays in proportional distances,
taken with regard to longitude; as the * in the dist
ance of 60°, the n in 90, 85c. We would have this
always observed, both in the daily motions of. the planets,
and in the directions and progressions, wherein the sig
niﬁcators advance by their own red] and natural Way, on
which they receive and emit the aspects ; and as all the
motioiis of the stars. _
48. The ﬁxed stars that are in a favourable conjunc
tion with the planets, effect with them the other
aspects, in the primum mobile, which otherwise have no
effect. The same must be supposed of their familiarities
in Muudo.
49. The rays in their kinds, from the brevity or lon
gitude of the ascension of the signs, do not alter their
nature from the fortunate to the unfortunate, or the
contrary, as it is generally supposed by authors; yet it
may be, that the quadrate in the Zodiac is either A or
* in the world, or the contrary: but then every one
has its effect according to its nature in both kinds, or it
may be, they alternately moderate each other; but if
these rays be found by the favourable stars, they‘ doubt
less produce happiness; if by the unfortunate, other
wise.
50. That which is vulgarly termed antiseions, we call
parallels in the primum mobile ,- because we would have
i 20 ' rnmuu mourn.
them to be nothing else but parallels to the equator, as
Ptolemy hints, “ as they rise at an equal space of'
“ time, and describe the same parallels,” for which
reason they are called the antiscions, or parallels in the
primum mobile, and are equidistant from the equator;
and if it be of the same country, it is called the primary
parallel, or opposite if of a different country. The
North commands, the South obeys; and they are taken
from the table of declination, but parallel, in its physical
sense, is an equal power of the inﬂuence of the stars
from the primum mobile. I
51. The twelve houses or~mansions in heaven, au
thors divide several ways, but they all disagree. Reject
ing the opinion of them all, we, with Ptolemy, distin
guish them by the two temporal hours ; for so it is,
that there is proportional and equal division, not indeed
of the heavenly and aerial space, but of the successive
inﬂux of the stars and houses; and the Mundane rays
appear equal and proportional. But it is our opinion,
that the division of the houses, by great circles passing
through the common sections of the horizon and meri
dian, and the twelve equal divisions of the equator,
which late authors make use of, are, of all, the most re
mote from and abhorrent to natural truth
52. As many kinds of aspects as are found in the
Primum mobile, of Which mention is already made; so
many, we say, are found in the world. Wherefore, be
sides the usual ray, we likewise place in the world the
parallels, which are an equipollence of the inﬂux of the
stars round the world. ~
53. Several resemblances are found between the mun
~ 711th moans. 21
dane parallels, and those in the primum mobile. (1.)
The efﬁcacy of the aspects in both consists in the parity
of equal power, and equipollence of the active virtue.
(2.) As in the primum mobile, they represent the same
quantity of the ascension of the signs : for example, the
signs x and 'Y‘, also It and 5, ascend in the same
time; and with so much likeness do they exhibit the
samequantity of ascension and deseension in the world,
that the eleventh house causes an ascension equal to the
descension of the ninth, and the twelfth house equal to
the second, Ste. (3.) As the parallels in the primum
mobile are equidistant from the cardinal points of the
Zodiac, so are parallels in Mundo equidistant from the
cardinal points of the world. (4.) As in the primum
mobile they exhibit equal temporal hours, so in the
world they exhibit equal temporal hours of the dist
ances from the cardinals. (5.) The parallels in the pri
mum mobile are at an equal distance from the pole of
the world; the parallels in the world have the same
polar elevation; and other‘resemblances, if required,
will be found.
54. The efﬁcacy of all the parallels, both in the pri~
mum mobile, and in the world, consists in the parity of
the degree of quality, which the stars effect when found
in the parallels; as it is plainly gathered from those
which we mentioned in sect. 25 ; for by going through
intension, and returning through remission, from the
cardinal points, it happens, that they effect an equal
degree of quality, as well under the primmn mobile as
round the world.
55. As for the circles of position in which the signi
\
22 minus: MOBILE.
ﬁcators are said to remain immoveable, and upon which
they are to be directed, and their oblique ascension to
be taken, those great circles passing through the com-.
mon sections of the horizon and meridian, according to
late authors, capnot be received; for this opinion is
openly inconsistent with the precepts of Ptolemy; but
those seats or parts of the circle are to be received, in
which the stars, having a different declination, eﬂ'ect
equal temporal <hours. From what has been said, this
conclusion is drawn, and agrees with the divisions of
the houses, through the two temporal hours, and with
the mundane rays. For this reason, we call such a seat
the liorary situation of position.
56. The dignity of the planets in the signs and their
parts, which are called the bounds and terminations,
have a real and natural foundation; to wit, the power
fnl aspect or proportional inﬂuxcs t0 the moveable points
in which the stars begin to produce the primary qualities.
So that, according to those things we have explained,
in the Philosophy of the Heavens, these are found to'
agree so well with the Egyptian boundaries, that they
are highly deserving of admiration.
=
T H ES E S
From the Turin) BooK.
57. To speak physically, the stars are moved but by
one motion, which is of the prirmtm mobile, viz. from
West to East; but for the easier explaining astrono~
mical' matters, we say in a simpler language, that the
\
anrm momma. 23
stars are moved by a double motion; of which frequent
mention has already been made; nay, more, we say
there are many motions in the heavens, by which the
stars change their aspects with respect to us.
58. The motion of direction is that which the Sun
causes round the world every day, following that of the
nativity, in whatever latitude, preordaining in power and
virtue, the vital heat with its natural eﬁ'ects, viz. from
every day to every year by Order : for it happens, that
at the end of' the ﬁrst, after the natal day, when the
Sun has returned to the same equal hour of the nativity,
the parts of the primum mobileywith all the stars, have
nearly gone through one degree of the equator; and the
same happens every subsequent day: meanwhile the
stars, as they advance, apply either by body or rays to
the stations ofthe signiﬁcators.
59. There is a double motion ofdirection. The di
rect, which Ptolemy calls Actinobolium, and tells us is
formed toward the following signs; and the converse,
which he terms Harmony, and shews us it is formed
towards the preceding places. i
60. By the direct motion of direction, we direct the
angles and all the moderators ; but by a converse] mo
tion, the angles cannot be directed. '
61. The angles only receive the rays in the world, but
not the parallels, nor the rays in the Zodiac. The other
signiﬁcators, by’a direct motion, receive the rays and
parallels both in the Zodiac and in the world; but by a
converse motion, the rays only, and parallels in the
world, and by no means in the Zodiac.
62. By a converse direction, the signiﬁcator, if it
24 PRIMUM aromas.
descends from the Medium Coeli, strikes against the
west, and all the rays that are between the signiﬁcator
and the west ; and the rays are to be taken in the World ;
forin a converse direction, the rays have no place in the
Zodiac, as has been said, but the hostile rays of the ma
lignant that lie between, either cut off, or take away, the
years from the number of direction to the west ; as on
the contrary, the rays of the benign either preserve or
add the years according to Ptolemy's method, which we
shall treat upon in the Canons.
63. It also happens, that when the signiﬁcator and
promittor are both hurried away together, by the rapt
motion of the primum mobile, that they effect parallels
in the world—equally powerful with all i the other
aspects. 7
64. In a direct direction, the signiﬁcators advance by
their own real way; as the Sun by the ecliptic, the
Moon by her circle, upon which successively she alters
her latitude, in proportion to her latitudinal motion.
The same is to be said of all, when they become signiﬁ
eators.
65. Authors are divided, as to measure in direction;
for some take the whole degree of the equator, for all
and every one of the years; others, the Sun’s motion of
the natal day: some, the Sun's mean motion; whilst
many more vary in their computations. But we, to the
ﬁrst year after the natal, take that part of the equator in
which the Sun ascends in a direct sphere, hy the motion
of the ﬁrst day following the nativity; to the second
year, that which ascends by the second day-’s motion ;
to the third, that which he ascends the third day after
74" ' ‘_ w -
—. L_ <1”
rsmuu moans. 25. .
the nativity; and thus of the other subsequent ones: for
we would trails the directional motion successive, and
always formed towards the succeeding places, and the
Sun’s motion each day to be referred to, as the cause and
rule to every year, as to their etlects, in the same order
and number. , ‘
66. But because the primary and principal motion 0f
direction is derived from the motion of the Sun on the
days following that of the nativity, as has been said, it
consequently happens, that by some secondary means,
the aspects that are made to the luminaries and angles
on those days, jointly assist the signiﬁcators of the pri
mary directions; for this reason, we say, that the days
whereon these aspectshappen are very powerful in those
years, which answer to those days, and on which they
depend. From those motions, in preference to the rest,
appears the true, real, and hitherto unknown, foundation
of the critical or climaetrical years; for the Moon, al
most every seventh day, is placed in the critical place
with respect to her place in the nativity ; and (which is
very important) experience wonderfully proves the truth
of it; as may be seen in the examples extracted from
Argol and Maginus. We call these motions the se
condary directions, to distinguish them from the primary
and principal; and we are of opinion, thai Ptolemy,
speaking of annual places, is to be understood of the
places of those motions, and when of the menstrual,
hints at the placa of the progression.
67. The equal and uniform progressions which are
commonly made use of, are supposed to be false; for
there appears no reason or foundation to support them ;
F
“F..
G 26 ' version nouns;
My, all the professors'with one'voiceafiirm,‘ they do not
correspond with the eﬁ'ecta. \Vherefore, because we
think the motions take their rise from the Moon's cir-‘
cuit towards the Sun, by which it premrdains in power
and virtue, the radicaltrhumiditywith‘ its co-eﬂ’ects; so
in like manner the motion of the direction originates
from the Sun, by which it pre-ordains the vital heat;
therefore the progressional motions are caused by the
Moon in her circuits towards the Sun, 'and her returns
to the-same appearance, illuminations, or distance; cons
sequently every one of the circuits, after “the nativity, has
a reference and respect was the cause, of each year of
the life of the native, and the Moon’s progress, through
each of the signs, to every month; '
68. In the universal daily motions, the stars are conti
nually agitating things of an inferior and material nature;
but they produce surprising eﬁ'eets, when they arrive at
the places of the moderators: and if they be radical,
they are called natural transits. But at the places of the
directions and progressions, they are called ingresses;
forﬂten, if the constellations of those motions be similar
to. the constitutions of the nativity, or the directions or
progressions, they force to action' the pre-ordained
effects; for in this, and no other manner, the stars act
upon inferior objects; that is, according as they ﬁnd the
'next in poWer. . t . t
l 59. Of the ingresses some are active, others passive ;
the active are caused by the stars, which have. an active
virtue, when they enter the places of the directions and
progressions 'of the moderators ; for then they, act upon
\the moderators. The passive are produced by the
'I
A
names! mourn. 2?
universal moderators in the whole world, via. by the
G, D, angles, and part of Fortune, when they emu
upon the places of the directions and progressions of the
stars, whatever they are, which have an active virtue :
but the active ingresses, if they be similar to the pres
ordained etl'ects, cause them to inﬂuence; Eif dissimular,
they either diminish or retard, as 'Ptolemy has it in the
last chapter of Book IV. The passive ingressesadrni~
nister nourishment towards the cooling and preserving
the vital heat, and refreshing the radical moisture.
70. In like manner of transits; some are active,- others
passive: and hence it is evident h0w powerful are the
accidental aspects of the luminaries and cardinal signs
at their setting ; and at other times of the natural acci—
dents, arising from those fortunate or unfortunate stars,
both of the nativity and of the place of the direction and
progression, agreeably to which, as has been said, we are
to reason on uncommon phenomena : for from the
extension and intension of light, from the colour, din
turnity, apparition, situation, either in 'the world, or
among the images of the starry orb, and other passions,
are gathered their effects, and the provinces under their
inﬂuence. New phenomena being found in nativities,
experience has already shewn the wonders they have
performed, chieﬂy as to the powers of the understanding,
inventions, the performing of business, Sec. And re
member, reader, that art, or the human understanding,
according to its ability and industry, is capable of chang
ing, increasing, diminishing, and perverting, any in—
ﬁuxes whatever of the stars; especially if the eﬂ'ects are
considered, which the power of man is capable of attain~
MV_._.-~\ a ,v»
28 ramrm uonru.
ing; and therefore, they who are possessed of a more
subtle and acute understanding, attain to greater things
then those of duller capacities: but they who are entirely
negligent, attain nothing. By all that has been said in
these Theses, it will not be difﬁcult to understand the
questions and explanations of my Celestial Philosophy.
And, ﬁnally, it is requisite that this doctrine of the stars
should be attentively observed, not only in nativities, but
also in decuinbitures and judgments of critical days, and
changes in the air, wherein you will ﬁnd wonderful
eﬂ'ects. For this doctrine is universal, and shews the
manner in which the stars act upon these inferiors, win.
the: compound or simple, &c. '
Pmntnt noun. 29
Use of the Tables.
[I
Pb t-i
RI.
FOR greater distinction and perspicuity, I have di
vided the following rules into four parts :--'
The ﬁrst contains the calculation of the places of the
stars, in order to know their places under the primum
mobile, in longitude and latitude, with the situation of
each of them in the world, and the distance from the
angles and houses, the right and oblique ascension, the
horary times, the semi-diurnal and nocturnal arcs, and
many things of this kind. _
The second consists of methods to compute the dis
rections of the signiﬁcator to the aspects in the Zodiac,
or primum mobile.
The third, the calculations of the directions to the
aspects received in the world.
The fourth, the observations and precepts of the 'pro.
gressions, ingresses, transits, Ste. _ '
But, because all the tables conﬁne their numbers to the
whole degree, both of latitude and longitude, as often as
the given place is in degrees and minutes, either by
longitude or latitude, the proportionalpart corresponding
with those minutes is to be taken with the given place,
in both beyond the degree; concerning which,in the
ﬁrst Canon or rule, a method is explained foryosmg he
30 - ritmun MOBILB..
ginners; and also, in the Canon of the, use of the Sex
agenary tables, and several of the Canons, that it might
not be sought in vain whenever it happens that the pro
portional part is to be taken. It is; therefore, to be ob
served, that the method is always the same as in the ﬁrst
and fourteenth Canon; consequently, it is ever, and on
all oCcasions, to be looked to and observed".
1 Canon I.
Tb take the Declination ofthe Planets, andfrom the De~
clination the Longitude, in the Ecliptic.
The table of declinations contains six signs in the
ﬁrst part, and six in the last ; those under the left co
lumns have the degree of longitude descending, but
those on the right, ascending: it is dividedrinto two
parts, viz. into north and south latitude, the degrees of
which latitudes are seen under their denominations.
It is likewise divided by the intermediate scale into
north and south declination ; that in the former place,
i. e. above the scale, is north, and below the scale is
the southern. If the given place, whose declination
you want to know, has no latitude, seek for that under
the eolurnn of latitude 0°, which is in the ecliptic; and
if it be in the integral parts, as, for example, in 81, 24° 0’,
under the column of latitude 0°, over against 51,24“,
you will have the declination 13° 34': but if the given
place be in degrees and minutes, suppose in 24° 10' of
$7,, the proportional part belonging to the 10’ must be
taken from the difference, which is between the declina
' For the Trigonometrieal Precepts relative to the Canons, see
theAppeudix._' .7 i , e...
Pmmm moans. 31
tion of 24° and 25° of 51; the declination of 24° of 5|,
is 13° 34‘. But 25" gives 13° 14' declination: the
diﬂ'erence between the two declinations is 20', where
fore, by the golden rule, I say, if the integral part, i. e.
60', gives 20’, what will 10’ give? Answer, 3', which is
'to be taken from the declination 13° 34', which is facing
24° of $1, ; because the declination is less (but if it
should be increased it ought to be added), and there re
mains for the declination of 24‘° 10’ of 51, 13° 31'. But
if the given place has latitude, and is in the integral de
grees both for longitude and latitude, at one view you
will have its declination; viz. in the cemmon angle.
Suppose, then, the given place 24° of $7, with 2° north,
in the common angle, you will have the declination
15° 27’. But if it be according to longtitude in degrees
and minutes, and for latitude in the integral degree, the
proportional part is to be taken from the diﬂ'erence of the
declination of the greater and lesser degree of longitude,
between which is the given minute, under the column of
the said latitude.
Let the place be in 24° 10’ of 51, with 2° north, un
der the column north, latitude 2° to the longitude 24° 0',
the declination is 15° 27'; and to the longitude 25° 0’,
under the same column, the declination is 17° 7'; the
difference of those declinations is 20‘, from which for the
'10', 3' is to be subtracted, as before. If the given place
be by longitude in the integral degree, and latitude in
degrees and minutes, the proportional part must be taken
from the diﬂ'erence of the declination of the greater and
lesser degree of latitude, between which is the given mi
nute, and to the same longitude; as if the given place
32 PRXMUM MOBILE.
be 24° of 51, with north latitude 2° 51','under the la
titude 2°, the declination is 15° 27'; under the latitude
3°, the declination is 16° 24', and the diﬂ'erence is 57’;
from which, for the 51', will he found by the golden rule
to give 48' to be added, because the declination is in
creased by latitude. Lastly, if the given place be by
longitude and latitude in degrees and minutes, as in the
nativity of Sebastian, King of Portugal, the Moon's
place, according to longitude, as in 24° 10' of 8],, with
2° 51‘ north, the proportional part must be taken doubly;
wherefore, subtracting the 3' from 15° 27', there remains
15° 24’; and by adding the {8', there remains the Moon’s
declination l6° 12’. To take the proportional part, you
have the logistical logarithms, or sexagenary table: its
use is shewn in the fourteenth Canon, though the golden
rule may likewise serve; but this method of calculating
is to be rightly understood; for in all the tables itvwould
be too tedious always to repeat it. In the scale which
divides the northern declination from the southern, care
should be taken as often as it happens to pass through
the scale, from one part to the other, either in longitude
or latitude, to have the declination conjoined, and there
will be a very great difference; from which, subtracting
the proportional part, if it be less than the declination of
the former angle which belongs to the integral
either the longitude or latitude is to be taken from the
declination of that angle, and there will remain the decli
nation of the same denomination; butif, on the con
trary, the proportional part taken be greater, the forum“
‘must be taken from the latter, and the remaining decli
nation changes the denomination.
“PRIMbM monies. 33
Let the Moon be in 99-10 of c, with latitude 4°
north, 'I‘ad'd the 6' to the 18', and the difference is 24';
from which, to the 10‘, 4’ is due: these, as they are
‘less than 6', I subtract from the (Y, and there remains
the declination 2’ ' north. 'Suppose the vMinor: in 9' 40'
of e, from the difference for the 40', 16‘ is tine; which,
as they are more than ‘6', 1 take ’6‘ from the 16‘, and
there remains the Moon’svdeclination 0‘5 10’ south ;1 bet
if the Moon in this case should have 4° 30‘l north,"l add
18’ to the 38’, which are under 4° and 5°, and the differ-f-v
ence is 56'; v"from which, for the 30', 28’ are due: from
these, as they are more than 10", I subtract the 'lO', and
there remains the declination 0° 18' north. Again,¢if
they are less, suppose 5', I should take these 5‘ from
l0’, and the declination is 0° 5' south. The given de
clination is brought back to the degree in‘the ecliptic
in this manner, however, if it be not greater than 23°
28’, :for otherWise it would fall out of the ecliptic. > Un~
der the‘ column of latitude 0° 0', that is, of the declina
tion of the ecliptic, let- the given declination be sought
for, and’ above 'the scale if northern, but below ifisonth-s
lern : but if'it should he found even to its- minut'cs, the
degreesof the signsin the ecliptic corresponding with it
are those“ which are placed opposite on bothsidcs; but
ifthe minutes of the given declination are not expressed,
the proportional part is to be taken, instead of the mi
nutes ih'ai are‘wanting to be added or subtracted from
the degree'iir the ecliptic, 8:0. in this Manner a—Iiet the '
declination Be South 7" 28‘ under the scale, and in the
itolur'nn of latitude 0°, 1' ﬁnd it opposite to l9" of a, or
in 11° of'-)(, therefore it answers to these degrees, In
G .
34 ‘ PIUMUM momma.
the nativity of Sebastian, King of Portugal, the declina
tion of I; is 7° 47', which is not expressed in the table;
butI take the next less, 7' 28', then the next greater is
7" 51’; the difference of these is 23’i the declination of
I; exceeds the less by 19’. 1 then ask, if the whole
difference of 23‘ give 60’ of longitude, how many will 19‘
give? Answer 50’, which are to be added to the 19° of
a ; so that b ’s declination corresponds with l9° 50’ of
as, or with 10° 10' of x: the same happens if the pro
portional part be taken differently; for the next greater
declination exceeds 3; ’s declination by 4’, for which the
proportional part is 10', which are added to the 10° of x,
or the 20° of e, from the place of the ecliptic, as before.
Canon ll.
The Ascensional Dzﬁizrence.
In the upper part of the-table ofascensional differences
look for the Pole’s elevation in the latitude ofthe country,
and in the ﬁrst column the declination of the given
place; which, if it be with the integral degrees, ' the
ascensional ditl'erence required is placed in the common
_ angle ; but ifthe declination be with degrees and minutes,
then take the proportional part, as in Canon 1. As if
the given declination be 12°, at the Pole’s elevation 42",
the-ascensional diﬁ'erence is placed in the common angle,
11° 2’ ; but if the declination be given 12° 25’, the
- mensional difference at declination 13°, is_l2°; where
fore the difference between this and the former is 58',
from which 24’ is due, i. e. to be taken in their room,
25' to 'be added, and the ascensional diﬁ'erence becomes
11° 26'.-Alwlher way : If you have already by you
"‘-~./- I
‘ 7’ I -_I - —_
' ~_
\ entrants ilomuti ' 35
the tables of loblique'ascension of the given place, and
the right ascension, subtract the less from the greater,
and the remainder is the ascensional diﬂ‘erence. In
like manner, if you have already the semi-diurnal or
nocturnal arc, subtract it from 90?, if it be less; if
greater, subtract 90° therefrom, and the remainder is
the ascensional difference. ‘
CANON Ill.
Semi-Diurnal or Nocturnal Arcs.
The semi-diumal or noctumal arcs are thus obtained;
the semi-diurnal in degrees and minutes, by adding the
ascensional diﬂ'erence to 90; when a star has north
declination, by subtracting it from 90, when south;
On the contrary, the semi-nocturnal 'is found by
subtracting the ascensional difference from 90°, when
a star declines to the north; and by adding it to 90,
when the star declines to the south; for either the
remainder or sum will be the semi-noctumal or diurnal
arc in degrees and minutes. If the declination above
given, viz. 12° 25', be northern, the semi-diurnal arc
will become 101° 26’, by adding the ascensional dif- '
ference 11° 26' to 90° = if the declination be south, the
semi-nocturnal will be the same; if the declination be
north,and subtracted from 90, there will remain the semi
nocturnal are 78° 34’ 5 , but if it be southern, the semi
diumal will be the same. If you would reduce the
semi-diurnal or semi-nocturnal are into hours and
minutes (see Canon XL), you will likewise have the
semi-diurnal and semi-nocturnal arc of the places in the
ecliptic from the tables of semi-diurnal and nocturnal
36 renting Momur.
arcs. At your 'Pole’s elevation, if the sign of the given .
degree be in the upper. part, look for its degree in the de
scendant degree placed to the left 5, but if it be at‘the
lower part, in the ascendant degree, which is to the
right, and} in the common angle of meeting, you will
have the arc-required, whose denomination-you will per
ceive under the very sign, whether diurnal- or nocturnal. _
And remember, if there are minutes, to take the pr0~
portional parts; but if it be denominated semi-diurnal,
and you want, the semid-nocturnal, or the contrary, sub
tract the arc found from 12 hours, and the remainder
is the other are required. In the nativity of Charles V.
the Sun is in, 14° 30’ of X : at the Pole’s elevation 52°,
I ﬁnd the sign as, in the lower part; ‘wherefore, to the
14 ascendant degrees, I take in the, common. angle the
semi-nocturnal arc, 6h 33' ;- but because the Sun has
above 30', I subtract one minute, and there remains,
the semi-nocturnal are, 6'? 32': whereas,,if. I want the
semi-diurnal are, I take 6" 32’ from 12", and there rep,
Inains 5h 28‘. Oﬁ the latitudinal planets,_provided their!
declination does nonexceed 23° 28’, the said semi-diurnal
. . I
or. nocturnal are, in hours and minutes, may be. had
thus : After reducing their. declination totthe longitude
of, the ecliptic, in the manner explained; in. Canon I._ '
withthis degree of the ecliptic, I enter. thetable of;
eetnifdiur'naltaros, and takeout the hours and minutesI
“seventies. therein in;th manner, “a: have we
tinned, 8m, as in the nativity of §ebastiau.. Qatum'hath,
Winters-7° 415-11193? "dues 19 19%;" of—e, or:
10° 10‘ _0f_ at, whose semilnoctnrnal are,at.¢the-Pde_.’s~
elevation 4Qj, is 6'5 27’
anpu account ‘37
Canon IV. ‘
a ' The Horary__ T
mm:
These may, be taken several ways ;' ﬁrst,',tihe diurnal
from the partition of the semi-diurnal arc in degrees-sand
minutes taken by six; the nocturnal from the partition
of the semi-noctumal, likewise by six, which six tem
poral hours thecardinal._signs of the world are mutually
distant: let the semi-diurnal are be 104° 45', the NM"
divided by 6 make 17, and there remains2; which,.
reduced to minutes, 'and these added to the other 45,
makes 165 ; which, when divided by 6, the quotient: is
27', and makes the horaryi times 17° 27.’ diurnal.
Secondly, the horary times of the,parts 015' the ecliptic
are collected in the proper tables; as. t!) thB ptﬂe§szdevas
tion 45 to 1-59 of 3 in the ecliptic, the honey; times:
diurnal are, 17° 51'. Thirdly, the semi—diurnal are
taken in hours and minutes, if multipliedl by two.
and a half, is converted into the- diurnal homry
times; and, in like manner, the scmi.~nocturnﬁlat¢*
into the nocturnal horary times; as the' semi~diurnab
are of 15 of ts, at the Pole 45°, is 7h 9', which, mul
tiplied by 2 and a half, vbecomes/17° 52’. Fourthly,
of the planets havinglntiturle,~ let their given declination
be brought back to the ecliptic in the; manner-as ex.
plained in Canon 1, and with that-degree of theecliptic
in the table of horary 'times,1.the,yl may be taken as
above-mentioned; but if the planet has-mgleater decli~
nation than 23° 28’, the‘ horary times cannot be taken
any other way, except by the help of‘the aseensiwal-difw
fcrence._ But if youhave the diurnat~horary>times,~;amil
\
38 PRIMUM momuz: ‘
want the nocturnal, or the contrary, subtract-your sum
from 30, and the rest will be the horary times re
quired: as in the given example, I subtract l7° 5__l'
from 30,:nd-thcrc' remains the horary times nocturnal ~
12° 9'. i
Canon V.
L, Right Ascension.
This you will take from the proper table; and if the l
given place be in the ecliptic, so as to have no latitude,
look for the right ascension under the column 0° 0', and
in the common angle you have it, by taking the propor
tional part for the minutes of longitude, if there are any,
as in Canon I. In the nativity of Charles V, the Sun
is in 14° 30’ of X; the right ascension of 14 of X, is
345°16'; for the 30’, 28' are due, to be added, and
the Sun’s right ascension becomes 345° 44;. If the
given place be not in the ecliptic, but has latitude from
it, and is in the integral degrees, both according to lon
gitude and latitude in the common angle, you will have
the right ascension: but if there are likewise minutes,
let the proportional part be taken, as in Canon I.
Canon VI.
Right Distance.
To know the distance by right ascension of the stars‘
in a right circle, subtract the lesser from the greater, '
that is, the right ascension of the preceding place
from the right ascension of the following, and the re
mainder is the right distance required. And this cau
tion is to be observed, that as the right ascension is an
arc of a circle, numbered in degrees of the equator,
PRIMUM momma. 39
which are 360, commencing at the beginning of the sign
tr, and terminating with the end of X, when it hap
pens that the right ascension of the preceding place is
less than a circle, as in x, :z, &c. and the following
place greater than the beginning of the circle, as er,
a, &c. a whole circle, or 360, must be added to the
right ascension of the following places, and from their
sum subtract the right ascension of the preceding place.
Let the 18° of x: be upon the bledium Coeli, whose
right ascension is 320° 30', and the following place be
15° of 1r, whose right ascension is 13° 48’; you cannot
subtract 320' 30' from 13° 48', unless you add 360°,
which makes the sum 373° 48’ 3 from which subtracting
the 320° 30', there remains 53° 18', the right distance
required. .And this caution is to be observed in all sub
tractions of ascensions, whether right or oblique, and
whether in degrees and minutes, or hours and mi
nutes. '
Carton VII.
Oblirpte Ascension and Descension,
Will be had by subtracting the ascensional difference
from the right ascension of the star, if its declination be
northern; but, if south, by adding the ascensional
difference to the right ascension, and the sum, or re
mainder, is the oblique ascension. Lastly, if it has no
declination, that right ascension becomes oblique ascen
sion. On the contrary, the oblique descension will be
found, by adding; if the declination be northern, by
subtracting; if south, to or from the right ascension.
Example: vto_l° 23' of 8, the declination is 12’; its
I
40 v _ I
ascensional difference at the ‘Pole’s elevation 42°, as we
have mentioned in Canon 11, is 11° 2’ ;’ the right‘ as
cension is 29° 13'; but as the declination is northern,
subtract the ascensional difference 11° 2’ from the right
ascension, and there remains the oblique ascension 18°
11'. Now, 1° 23’ of m, has the same declination and
ascensional diHerence, which is to be added to the right
ascension 209° 13', because the declination is southern,
and the oblique-ascension is 220° 15'; besides, there are
extant many tables of oblique ascensions by which they
may be gained ; as those ofArgoll’s, and several others.
Canon V111.
To reduce the Right. Ascension, or Oblique, 'to the De
_ gree of Longitude in the Ecliptic, or to any other
Place of Latitude or Longitude.
Look for the given right ascension of the ecliptic in
the body of the table of right ascensions under the co
lumn of latitude 0° 0', and you will have the places in
the ecliptic, corresponding to it, by taking the propor
tional part for the minutes, if there be any. But if,
when the‘right ascension of a latitudinal planet is given,
you are desirous to know to what longitude in the eclip
tic it corresponds, look for that right ascension under
the column of the given latitude, and in the column of
longitude you will have the degree of the ecliptic cor
responding to it: as, for example, the right ascension
of 157° 48’ in the ecliptic answers to 6 of 1111; but‘if‘the
right ascension 157° 48’ be, for example, for the Moon,
in latitude 5° southern, it answers to 8 of 111: ; but
with this caution, because the Moon then mediatcsi'the
“may Momut.
Parmm MOBILE. 41
mid-heaven with 6° of 111, but has the rays in the Zodiac
to the other planets from 8° of rat. In like manner you
must reduce the oblique ascension to the ecliptic from
the table of the oblique ascensions of the Pole’s eleva
tion; as the oblique ascension'of the ecliptic 168’ 9’ to
the Pole’s elevation 45° is reduced to 2l of mt in the
ecliptic ; but, if the oblique ascension be of the Moon
in south latitude 5°, I say it is reduced to 19° of tip, with
latitude, as is there posited, but with the same distinc
tion; for then the Moon co-ascends in the same circle
hf position with 21° of ﬁg, but has the rays to the other
planets in 19° of_ﬂ)z. This revocation is of service, in
order to know what longitude and declination the signi
ﬁcator encompasses by the direction, and consequently
with what planets it contracts the aspect when in the.
Zodiac, which is, by adding the arc of direction to its
right ascension, if it be found in the right circle in the
nativity ; or to the oblique ascension, if elsewhere.
Canon IX.
Distances from the Cut-pa of the Angles or other Houses.
The distance from any cardinal sign or house (that is)
from their cusp, will be easily obtained after the ascen
sion of that house or cardinal sign, and likewise the as
cension of a star is given; for subtracting the lesser,
which is the preceding place, from the greater, which is
the following, the remainder will be the distance of
the star from that house or cardinal sign; but if the
house or angle be in the descending part of heaven,
taking the descensions of the house, and the same of the
star, or the ascensions of the opposite places, and sub
42 PRIMUM momma.
tracting, in like manner, the lesser from the greater,
the remainder will be the distance required. The pre
ceding place is that which is in the lesser degrees; the
succeeding in the greater: as the beginning of ‘7‘ pre
cedes, the beginning of :1 follows; and thus in all.
The distances of the stars from the cusps of the houses
maybe taken without the oblique ascensions; but the
right ascension is to be known, together with the semi
diurnal and nocturnal arc's, or the temporary hours;
for after taking their primary distance from the culmi
nations, the secondary distances are made at the cusps
of the houses; and the ninth and eleventh houses are
distant from the meridian, by the double horary times,
or the third part of the semi-diurnal arc ; the eighth
and twelfth, by double gemination, See. Wherefore,
the primary and secondary distance of a star from the
meridian being given, always subtract the lesser from
the greater, and you will have the star’s distance from
the given house; by primary distance vI mean that which
the planets have in a nativity ; but the secondary, that
which they acquire by direction. There are several ex
amples in the nativities which are shewn farther on.
CANON X.
To describe a Figure of the Heavens.
This we are taught by almost all professors, but in a
very different manner; therefore be pleased to take here
a very concise method. If the italic hour be given,
let the astronomical be made, by adding the semi-diurnal
are. In the tables of houses at the Pole’s elevation
given, let the place of the Sun be looked for, upon the
mumm nomm. ' 48
cusp of the tenth house, and let the time from noon
be taken, which is found on the back of it, and added
to the astronomical hours found above. Finally, with
this sum, when it is found in the same table of houses,
directly opposite, will appear the signs and degrees which
belong to the six eastern houses, taking the proportional ’
part, when there is occasion. Of the other six western
houses, the cusps are described with the opposite signs,
and the same degree as the opposite houses.
Another way.--The italic hour being given, let the
gree opposite to the Sun of the given day be sought '
for in the ascendant, and let the time from noon,
which shall be found there, be added to the given
hour; when this sum is found, let the division of the
houses, directly opposite, be taken, &c. From this}
same sum of the hours, Subtract the time from noon
found at the degree of the 0's place On the same day,
constituted in the tenth house, and there will remain
the astronomical hour; or, in other words, past meri
dian, as in the nativity of Charles V. The given italic
hour is 10h 11’; which place in the horoscope is 14" of
111:, on the back ofwhich the time from noon is 4h 29', to
which add 10" 11’, and the sum is 14h 40’; which,
when I ﬁnd in the tables of houses, I take their divi
sions, Sec. Again, I place the Sun in the medium cash,
and there I take 23h 1’, from which reject ~14h 40', ﬁrst, '
adding the 24" (as we have said in Canon VI), there re
main the astronomical hours IS“ 39' post meridian.
To place the planets in the ﬁgure, let the astronomical \
hour beequated ; ﬁrst, by the table of equation of na
tural days, then for the difference of meridians, in the
"Qh/ ».>~, - —
4i! PRIMUM MoarLl;
manner they are noted. The places of the planets are
very easily calculated to the equated hour, from the
Sexagenary table, in this manner :-—In the ﬁrst column
on the left hand, to the number 24, for 24 hours, look
in the body of the table for the planet's motion ; and,
directly under the same column, at the given hour, you
will have its motion, to be added to the place of the
same, at noon ; or to be subtracted, if the planet be re
trograde, as in the example of Charles V. The diurnal
‘ motion of the _Moon is 14° 39’, which, opposite to the
24th number, I ﬁnd, in the body of the table Sex
agenary, under the 37th column; but because there
they do not go so far as minutes, Itake the propor4
tional part, audI ﬁnd it corresponds under 36° 37':
with the l5th hour, under the/36° I take 9°; and, for
the 37‘ from the difference which is there made, I add
9'; again, for the 39' of the given hour, I look under
37, and, at 39, in the common angle, 1 take 24' to be
added, and this makes all the Moon’s motion 9° 33', to
beadded to its place, calculated for noon ; but as the h
is in 27° 12’ of 1‘, its place immcrges to the given
hour, 15b 39' in 6° 45’ of kf. As for the other
planets, when their motion exceeds 72', whereas in the
Sexagenary table at 24, the greater number is 72, make
use of half the diurnal motion of the planet, and the
product of the given hour must be doubled : as the di
urnal motion of 9 is 75', I use half this number 37,
and I ﬁnd opposite 24, under the column 93; where
'fore, opposite 15, under the same column, I take 24',
which, doubled, make 48; or use the geminated hours,
as 48, for 24'. In the body of the table, I ﬁnd the
W M r?
‘ y ,- _." -
—-‘— ‘=%=ﬂ_~e c_“'--__’;<¢=;
anuu MOIILE. 45
motion of 2 75, under the column 94; but opposite
31, for the 15h 39', I take 48 or 49, as before. In
like manner are the latitudes calculated, by reducing the
parts to minutes, and looking on the sides for days,
and in the body for the diﬁ'erence of latitudes, &c. As
the latitude of Q to the 20th of February is 3° 16’, to
_ the ﬁrst day of March it is 2° ll', the diﬂerence is 65’
for the 10 days; from which, for the 4 days, are pro
duced 26, to be subtracted: but, because the Sexage
nary table to number 10 is not extended above 30, I
look for it_ at the triplicate of 10, which is 30, and I
ﬁnd 65 under 130; but, at the triplicate 4, i. e. 12
under 130, I ﬁnd 26 as above: I look for 10 at the_
quadriplicate, which is 40, and I ﬁnd it either under
97 or 98', for in the one it is deficient,iin the other it
exceeds in the minutes 20 seconds; and at the quadri
plicate 4, i. e. 16 under either of the same columns, I
ﬁnd 26 as above. The Part Qf Fortune is placed ac—
cording to the Moon’s distance from the Sun. And
you must observe, what rays the Moon has to the Sun,
for the latter ought to have the same, and with the
same excess or deﬁciency as the Q to the horoscope.
As the Moon is to the Sun, so is Q to the horo—
scope; and as the Sun is to the horoscope, so is the
Moon to the Part of Fortune ,- as in the nativity of
’Charles V, the Moon applies to the ultimate Sextile of
the Sun, but with a deﬁciency of 7° 45' : 1 subtract the
7° 45’ from 5° 34’ ofm, the ultimate Sextile to the ho
roscope, and the 6 is placed in 28° 9' of in. But the
partitions of the houses may also be made by the right
and oblique ascensions to the polar elevations of the
46 Pmmm woman.
houses; ﬁrst, you are to bring back the given hour to
the degrees of the equator : if' the given hour he Italic,
add these degrees to the oblique ascension of the Sun's
opposite place, and the sum will be the oblique ascen
sion of the horoscope of the ﬁgure to be erected : if the
given hour be astronomical to the Sun’s right ascen‘
sion, add the degrees to which you have reduced the
astronomical hours, and the sum will be the right ascen
sion of the medium coeli: the ascensions of the- other
houses are made by constantly adding 30° for the ascen
sions of every one of them; and from the tables of
oblique ascensions, to the elevation of the houses, are
had the degrees of the Zodiac, to be placed in these
houses. Finally, directly under the horoscope, describe
the latitude of the planets, the declination, horary
times,right ascension, 8m. Likewise, to every house,
draw the Pole's elevation and oblique ascension, which
you may do by adding 30 degrees to the right ascension
of the medium caeli ,- for the eleventh, likewise add 30,
and you will have the oblique ascension of the twelfth,
and so for the rest. The elevation of the Poles of the
houses is shown in the proper table, and also in the
tables of the houses.
CANON X1.
To convert Hours and Minutes of Time into Degrees and
Minutes of the Equator; and, vice versa, the De
grees and Illiuutes of the Equator into Hours and
Minutes.
This is too obvious to require any explanation.
rmmm momma, 47
CANON XII.
0n the Circle of Petition, or the Fole’s Elevation of any
Planet.
Under the circle of position, later authors are to be
understood of the nature of that passing through the
common sections of the horizon and meridian; and
upon such circles they direct their moderators, and
constitute the intervals of the houses. But how fri'vo
lous and remote-from natural truth this opinion is,
may be seen in my Celestial Philosophy, where it is
largely and plainly demonstrated ; but it is also contrary
to the doctrine of the Prince of Mathematicians, P'ro-‘
LEMY, who has transmitted to posterity this universal
science, founded only on the most sublime principles
of Philosophy, which, I think, innumerable examples
fully prove. Those who refuse to follow him, doubt
less proceed through confused ways, which have no
claim to the least commendation whatever. Idesire no
other guides but Ptolemy and RBason. I have no idea
of circles of position which are directed through the
common sections of the horizon and meridian, but
those that are described by the proportional distances of
the stars towards the angles ; and we may, by means of
a very easy method, know the Pole’s elevation upon the
Ptolcmaic circle of any star whatever. In the ﬁrst
place, let the quantity of the house be taken; which
the star, whose polar elevation is sought for, measures
by lustration. This quantity of the house may be had
several ways: (L) The horary conditionary times‘ of
that star, when doubled, produce the quantity of the
48 inmost momma,
stan'y house. (2.) The third part of the semi-diurnal
arc of the star, is the measure of the house above the
earth; of the semi-nocturnal, under the earth. (3.)
The distance of a star from the preceding houSe, join
ed with the distance of the same star from the suc
cedent, taking the distance as mentioned in Canon IX;
1 say, these distances, added together, produce the
space or quantity of the house. I then let the differ
ence of the Pole’s elevation be taken, which is between
the succedent and preceding houses, as before, between
which the star is found by the table of the poles of
houses; then let the distance of the star be taken,
either from the succedent or preceding houses, as be
fore mentioned. (4.) By the Golden Rule. Quere,
If the whole quantity of the starry house give the polar
difference between the succedent and preceding houses,
what part of the difference will the distance of the star
from either house give? Let the fourth number, which
is the product, if the Pole’s elevation be augmented by
the house from which the distance of the star is taken,
be added to the house’s elevation; if diminished,
Subtracted; and the remainder or sum will he the
polar elevation of that star, of which many examples
‘follow in the nativity of Francis, the ﬁrst King of
France, Cardinal Salvatius, Ste. Here we must be
cautious, because the polar elevations of the houses are
not increased or diminished uniformly; that is, for ex
ample, to the latitude of the country 45°, the polar
elevation of the eleventh house is increased 18° 50’ ; the
twelfth house is augmented 15° nearly, and the horo
scope is increased 11°, so that you see they have no
PRIMUM menu. 49
equal increase. When a star is about the mean dis-’
tance from the centres of the preceding and succeeding
houses, if any one desire to haw: 'a true polar elevation
of that star, he ought to avoid this inequality; as, sup
pose the star to be in the middle distance from the
medium cmli to the eleventh, where, by the golden ‘
rule, the 'pole increases 9° 25’, which is the half of
18° 50', to which the eleventh house is elevated. A star
in this case bath, in reality, a polar elevation greater
than this half, and the reason is, because the difference
of the polar elevation is always diminished from the
medium cwli to the horoscope; and, therefore, in the
tenth house, the polar elevation has a greater augmen
tation in the ﬁrstgr‘noiety than in the latter. The dif,
ference of the Polo’s of the houses are these, ' ll, 15,
and 19: if we divide 11 into 5 and 6, but 15 into]
and 8; lastly, 19 into 9 and 10, the division will ap
pear very agreeable to reason, viz. into 5, 6, 7,. 8, 9,
and 10, whichare the diﬂ'erence of the Pole’s elevation
in the middle of each of the houses Lwherefore, to the
given star placed in the middle distance from the cul- D
mination to the llth, you will have the Pole’s elevation
IO. But the caution is only to be observed when 1
‘5tar stops about the mean distance from the cusps,
where, ﬁrst taking the proportional parts, by the golden
rule, near one degree, as mentioned above, should af
terwards be added or subtracted; but, when it remains
about the cusps of the houses, it may be entirely 11.85—
lccted, as it makes but little difference.
50 rarmm aroma.
Canon XIII.
The Distances of the Aspects both. in the Zodiac and
World, and the Degrees in them.
In the Zodiac the Sextile has 60°, the Quintile 72',
the Square 90°, the Trine 120°, the Sesquiquadrate
135°, the Biquintile 144°, and the Opposition 180'.
But because every ray is a circle, whose centre is the
star projecting the ray, excepting the opposition, doubt
less every ray-cuts the whole latitude of the Zodiac ;_
wherefore, whenever it happens that another star passes
through that ray’s section, whatever latitude the other
star may have, it receives the ray, and mutually projects
the same from that section to another star; and not only
from the point of latitude which this star has there, but
this manner of receiving and projecting the rays happens
in the daily motion of the stars in the directions, pro
gression, and all the motions of the stars; and indeed
from the great difference of latitude of such stars as are
mutually aspected, there follows some difference of the
ray’s longitude, but of a very few minutes, which may
be omitted ; however, those who wish for further inves
tigation, may consult Regiomontanus and Maginus.
At the medium well, the stars have their SEXTILE from
the cusp of the eighth and twelfth houses.
QUINTILR,
When their distance from it is four of the ﬁve parts
of the semi-diurnal are, or six parts of ﬁve of the *.
Quantum,
From the eastern and western points, that is, from
the ascendant and seventh.
Wags-Q’sw
PRIMUM MOBILE. - 51
Turns,
From the centre of the second and sixth houses.
SESQUIQUADRATB,
From the mean distance between the east and the
imum caeli, and between this and the west.
BlQUlN'l‘ILE,
When their distance from the imum melt is two of the
ﬁve parts of the semi-nocturnal are, or three of the five
parts from east to west below the earth.
OPPOSITION,
From the imam cmli.
At the horoscope, the stars have the sextile from the
cuspof the eleventh and third houses. ~
gum-nus,
When the distance from the east is four of the ﬁve
parts of the semi-diurnal are, or nocturnal; or in other
words, when they are distant onepart out of ﬁve of the
above are from the medium cwli, or imam oteli, towards
the east. ‘
QUADRATE,
At the Medium and [mum Cali.
Tame,
From the cusp of the ninth and ﬁfth.
Snsomomnnnx,
From the middle distance between the medium cmli and .
west, and between the west and imum cali.
BIQUINTILE, .
When the distance is two out of ﬁve ‘parts from the
west above and below the earth. To the Sun and Moon
52 ‘ mm MOSH!
existing in the cusp of any house, the rest of the planets
have their rays in the world in like manner as towards the
angles; that is, if they abide in the cusp of the ninth
house, they have
The SEXTXLB,
From the cusp of the eleventh and west.
va'nus,
When the distance from the luminary is beyond the
.Sextile a ﬁfth part, from a double gemination of the
horary times, and diurnal if a star remains above the
earth; nocturnal, if below; for the Quintile has twelve
parts more than the *, which are the ﬁfth part
of it. -
‘ QUADRATE,
From the cusp of the twelfth and sixth houses.
TRINE,
'From the east and cusp of the ﬁfth.
stovlouannnn, \
When their distance beyond the Trine is one c. e in
the horary times, in like manner conditionary, 'i. e. noc
turnal; I may say, when their distance beyond the Qua
(hate is the half of the semi-nocturnal are, because
both the Sesquiquadrates'to the cusp of the ninth house
fall below the earth.
'Bi‘oum‘rttn,
'When they are distant beyond the Trine twice the
ﬁfth part of the nocturnal Sextile, "i. e. when taken
below the earth, or when their distance from the oppo
. sition of the luminary is two of the ﬁve parts of the
semi-necturnal arc; and in like manner, in whatever
PRIMUM means. 53
other place they are found, whether luminaries, or any
other star, the rays in the world are taken by a propor- 7
tional division of the semi-nocturnal and diurnal are.
PARALLELS in the Zonuc,
Which. are commonly called antiscions, are circles
equidistant from the equator, and are taken from the
equal declination of the stars of what latitude soever,
which, if it be of the same name, are called equal in
dignty; if one circle be northern, the other iouthem,
the former is said to be of authority, but the latter in
subjection.
PARALLELS in the WonLn,
.Are distances eoually proportional from one of the
cardinal houses in both distances; V though, indeed, they
appear to have distances equally proportionate to all the
cardinals ; as the eleventh with the ninth and third; and
they are taken by a proportion of the semi-diurnal and
nocturnal arcs of the stars.
Canon XIV,
Contains the use of ' the Sexagenary table, to ﬁnd the
part proportional, and is shewn by examples in othg'
parts of this work, to which we refer the reader.
CANON XV.
The Use Q7" the Logarithmﬁ.
We have placed the logarithms of absolute numbers,
vbecause in that manner of Ptolcmean direction, which we
" N. B. Instead of the commonlogarianl use Dr. Maskelyne's
Proportional Logaritbms. _ _ e
I , °L___:-_._a: s—d-n.‘
' 54 PIIMUM nontte._
follow, they are of very great service in exhibiting the
fourth proportional number; therefore the three num
bers being given, whether of parts or hours, if they are
minutes, let each of them be reduced to minutes, adding
them as they are disposed in their places ; then take the
logarithms of the-2d and 3d number, add them together ;
from this sum subtract the logarithm of the ﬁrst, and Y ‘
look for the remainder in the middle of the table; op
posite to which, take the number for the fourth required,
which divide by 60, and with the remainder you will
_have parts or hours with their minutes. For example ;
let the numbers be given, the ﬁrst 95° 25’, the. second
35° 45', the third 100° 15', reduced to minutes are
5725'—2145'—-6615'; the logarithm of the ﬁrst 3.75778,
of the second 8.33143, of the third 3.82053. 1 add
the second and third together, and I make the sum
7.15196, from which I subtract the ﬁrst, and there
remains the logarithm 3.39418, answering to the number
2478, which, reduced to degrees, makes 41° 18',‘the
fourth number required. But because the logarithm
consists of eight'ﬁgures, the six ﬁrst of these are suﬂi
eient forjhis purpose, and it seemed not good to rescind
_ the rest, by reason of other advantages resulting from
them, you may only make use of the six ﬁrst, pro
vided you think proper, for it is of little use or conse
quence; but if the seventh ﬁgure be ﬁve or greater,
you should add unity to the sixth ﬁgure, which will be
your last; and if the seven ﬁgures be 4, 3, 2, 1, 0,
omit it entirely. In the given example of the ﬁrst num
ber 5725, the logarithm ofeight ﬁgures is 3.7577755, I
leave out the two last' ﬁgures 55, and add the unit to the
PRIMUM momma. 55
sixth, which make it 3.75778. Observe also, that the
logarithms are easier collected by taking two ﬁgures for
every change; thus ﬁrst collect 37, then 57, lastly 78.
CANON XVI.
To equate the Arc of Direction.
Add the arc of direction to the right ascension of the
natal Sun, look for this sum in the table of right ascen
sions under the ecliptic, and take the degree and minute
of longitude corresponding with that sum: then in the
best Ephemeris reckon in how many days and hours the
Sun from the day and hour of birth, has arrived at that
degree and minute. The number of days indicate as
many years ; every two hours over, reckon a month.—
See examples in the following nativities.
56 PRTMUM MOBILE.
PART II.
To calculate the Directitms to the
Aspects in the Zodiac.
I HAVE divided the Canons into four parts, for
greater distinction and perspicuity, that I might not al
ways repeat tho same thing under any other title than that
of Canons, that is, either in the Zodiac, or in Mundo,
wherefore, in this SECOND PART, know, thatI treat of
the Directions to the Aspects in the Zodiac only; or,
in other words, in the primum mobile, and of no other.
But what the aspects in the primum mobile are, and
what in the world, together with the cause of this true
distinction, I have very plainly demonstrated, from na
tural principles, in my Celestial Philosophy; for the
aspects in the primum mobile, which happen between
the stars, are mutually independent of the horizon of
the country, by reason of their motions in the same
primum mobile; under which they are in the same situ
ation in? all countries and cities of the world, with the
difference only of time and polar elevation.’ The aspects
in the world are made dependent on the horizon of
every country, because of the motion of the stars to-‘
wards the world, and cardinal houses. But, as it may
be disputed, whether it is proper to say, that the signi
ﬁcath is directed to the promittors, and their rays, or '
PRIMUM MOBILE. 5'!
the .promittors and rays to the signiﬁcator, know, there
is a double motion of directions” direct and converse;
I say, that imthe direct direction the signiﬁcator remains
immoveahle in the mundane situation, always under the
same Pole’s elevation, but advances under the same
primum mobile from its more western parts, to the more
eastern; the occourses, however, remain immoveable
under the primum mobile, but are moved with a rapt
and universal motion from the eastern quarter of the
world to the more western, or the place of the signiﬁ
catots. Again, I say, that in the converse motion of
direction, the signiﬁcator remains immoveable under
the primum mobile, but is moved by an universal rapt
motion from the eastern quarter of the would t0 the
more western, towards the place of the promittors in
the world; but the occourses remain always immOVe
able in their mundane situation, 0r polar elevation. It
follows, therefore, that both may have a name,,;but
with a distinction; and, Iwill say, indifferently, gig-1
cording as I should have occasion to mention them,
Finally, as experience in every place ever convinces”,
that besides the reason I have advanced in the Phiiorq-y
phy of the Heavens, the aspects of the star to the lumig
naries and cardinal houses, which happen every day
after the nativity, have a very strong inﬂuence, 'viz.
from every day to every year, whence, above the rest;
are derived the climactrical years, as I shall 'shewatter.
wards; and it is likely that Ptolemy, in the last Chap:
ter of Book IV, under the name of Annual Places,
,means the places of those motions. I thought proper
X
'58 PRIMUM momma.
toigive thesemotions the name of Secondary Direc~
tions ;. but the others, which we are to mention,
to characterize under that of Primary Directions..
" I CANON XVII.
To direcththe Sun, being near the Mid-heaven, to the
- ' .Conjuucttons, and all Rays. ‘
The Sun is accounted near the cusp of the house
when he is not more than 3° distant. First, take the
Sun’s right ascension, then that of the aspect, whether
it be the coniunctionor oppositionﬁor any other inter-
mediate ray, by always taking the right ascensions, and)
omitting the latitude in this case, even in the conjunc;
tion and opposition, if, however, the prontittor hath;
not greater latitude than the orb of his light (for this
ivtheldiﬂ'erence between the zodiacal and mundane as
pects 3‘ the former being caused by‘a greater proximity
to the greaterI distance of the stars between each other,
and upon their real way in the Zodiac; the greater proxi
mityhappening in the same partile longitude, though
their distance and diﬂerenee be according to latitude, if
the‘distance-of latitude in the conjunction and opposi
tion, as! have said, he not greater than the sphere of
activity of light of the stars; for .if it be greater, the
conjunction is notzpowerfnl, nor the opposition in the
Zodiac, as- I have demonstrated in the Celestial l’hilo-,
sophy). 'Iastly, subtract the _Sun’s right ascension
from'that of. the aspects, and the remainder is the arc of
direction. EMmpk: In the nativity of George Aldo
braudinus, the 0’s right ascension is 2L5“ 58', butthe
x .
’ rmth momma 59 '
right ascension of Venus, taken in the ecliptihﬂisr
262° 8’, from which,l.subtncting the Sun’s right ash"
cension, there. remains the arc of direction, 46° 10’. t
: t1 L'Jf'iialJ
CANON XVIIIMI
To direct the ‘Sun, when found near the ofﬂte,
Horoscope, 0r Seventh House, 'to. the Conjtmctt'ons,
- and all theRays. -_,. I a gm;
Take the Sun’s oblique ascension, if in the aseendaht,
under the latitude of the country, or the deScension, i5
in the seventh, or the oblique ascension of the 'oppo";
site place; then the ascension or descension of the
place oflthe aspect under the- same Pole, leaving out
the latitude in this case, provided that, in conjunction
and opposition, the latitude of the planet dOes not ex
ceed its orbs, as before mentioned, and take the Sun’s
oblique ascension from that of the ray, and the remainder
is the are of direction required. -- _ -.
CANON XlX.
To direct the Sun, when found above the Earth, far
distant fmm the Cardinal Houses, to the Conjunction,
and all the Rays.
If the Sun remains above the earth, and his distance
from the cardinal house is mere than 3° from the ctisp,
ﬁrst take the Sun’s right distance from the__me_ridian;
and from the same, the right distance of the aspect
which the Sun is to be directed to, 'which call the pri
mary, the semi—diurnal are, and that of the aspect;
and by the Golden rule say, if the Sun’s, semi-diurnal
are gives the right distance of the same, what distance
I
60 PMMUM mourns.
will the semi~diurnal arc of the promittor, or oeenrrent
place give: multiply the second and third, and the
product divide by the ﬁrst, which is the secondary
distance of the aspect. Then, if both the primary and
secondary distance of the aspect be from the same car
dinal house, and in the same hemisphere of Heaven,
ascen'dant or descendant, subtract the lesser from the
greater, and the remainder is the arc of direction; but
if one;.is in the ascendant, and the other in the do
.seendant, add both distances together, and the sum is
the-arc of direction. You may take the semi-diurnal
are, both of the Sun and the aspect, either in hours or
minutes, or degrees and minutes; or,.instead of the
semi-diurnal are, you may use the temporal hours. '
~.E.mmple.' In the nativity of Cardinal Fachenetti, I
have a mind to direct the Sun to the quintile of Jupiter
in the Zodiac; which happens in 19°4l’1v, the right
ascension of the medium caeli being 326° 26’.
h. m. It. m.
Semi-diur. arc of Q 6 0 Semi-diurn. arc of 19° 41’ ‘Y‘ 6 30
Right ascension . 0- 8 Right ascension . . . . 18 9
Distamedium c2533 42 Primry distance . . . 5t 43 From
7 I ‘ [medium cmli.
Now, bythe Golden rule, if the Sun’s semi-diurnal
arc, viz. 61‘, give its distance from the medium catls'
33°42}, what will the semi-diurnal arc of 'Y‘, 19° 4l',
Yiz. 6" 80' give? Answer, 36° 30’,""F which is the “se
condary distance of the aspect’s place. But because
bpth the primary and secondary distances are produced
' in the ascending part of heaven, I subtractthe second.
'5 Seehypcadix, Unepﬁ lbolhtopona'tmﬂ 1
.__‘\i
anrm MOBXLE. 61’
ary distance.from the primary, and the remainder is"
the arc of directiOn. Thus, . .3
Primary distance at medium 001i is . . 51° 43'
Secondary I,d'tiitatuur,r-'. . . . -. . . 36 30
v {Subtract and are, = 15 I l3
For the equation, I add the are of direction to the Sun's
right ascension; and. I make the sum 15'21', which
answers to 16" 40 m, to which the Sun, from the day
and hour of the nativity, arrives in 16 days, and some
hours, 'which are the compass of so many years. i
. Another way.-~To direbt the Sun by the oblique 3s
cension, under his Pole 0’? position, take the Pole's‘
elEvation, in the manner explained in Canton XII, and '
the oblique ascension of the Son, and of’the" aspect,
and subtract the oblique ascension of the one from the
other, &c. of which more examples will be given; we
'having laid down a table of the Pole’s elevation of the
eleventh, twelfth, second, and third houses, for the
latitude of the country, to 60°: 2150, in the tables
of the houses, there is placed, above every house, its
polar elevation. l
“ Carson XX.
To direct the Sun, when found below ﬂic‘ in the
Space of the ermscule, to the Confront:th and
Boys.
The reason why the Sun, when found in the erep'us-v
cular space, should be directed upon the circles parallel
to the horizon, and not upon the horary- circles, as
when the Sun is above the Earth, has been given in the
linens, and demonstrated in the clean“ manner in the
621
pelestial‘ Philosophy. ; but now attend to What. Ming
to the practice of calculation. I'f'the Sun is found in
the morning crepus'cule,» ﬁrst direct the' Sun to'the
degree of the aspect, under the. latitude of. the. country,
that is, to' the elevation of your pole, though indeed
the Sun does: not remain there, but below, and a
separate place. You must observe the are of direction,_
and then take the Sun’s distance from .the horoscope,
by its oblique ascension, which call the Sun’s primary-a
distance; and observe, that if this distance be greater
than thewhole quantity of the crepusculiuc' to the pa-_
rallel of depression, 18°, the Sun is not in the cre
ppsculines; and, in this case, you are to calculate
by the following Canon. But if the‘Sunvis'inthe,
space of the crepuscules, with the Sun’s distance,
from‘ the horoscope, above taken, enter the table “of_
crepuscules at your Pole’s elevation, placed in your
ﬁrst column; and with the Sun's sign, and degree,
according as they are placed, in the beginning or end ;
and when, in the body of the table, you have found
this distance of the Sun from the east on the back of
the sitrne opposite to it, you are to observe what degree
nf the crepusculine parallels the Sun possesses, viz. in
the second column, by taking the part proportionate
only to the Sun’s degrec'of longitude, as I shall men-t
tion afterwards; and' under:the same parallel see what
the distance of the place or oecurrent degree is, by di
rection; that is, what the Sun's distance is from the
horoscope, inithe same crepusculine parallel, afterwthel '
direction is ﬁnished; and this distance I cally the se-
condary; ,and if the primary and ,secondary distances
are equal, the true are is that whichy‘oulhave calculated
PRIMUM MOBILE. l
Parmm MOBILE} 63
i above, Viz; the Sun’s are in the horoscope; but if they
are unequal, subtract the lesser from the greater, and
the remainder'call the ortive diﬁ‘erence. Lastly, if the
secondary distance be less, and the primary greater, add
that remainder, or ortive difference, to the Sun's are
of direction, calculated in the horoscope; but, if the
secondary distance be 'greater,‘ and the primary less,
subtract the ortive difference from the arc of direction,
and you will have in the remainder the true are of di
rection calculated in the crespusculine circle, which is
to be equated the'usual way, as in Canon XVI. And
observe, that in seeking for theSun’s primary distance
from the horoscope in'the tables of the crepuseuliue, it
is sufﬁcient to take the part proportional to the degree
of the Sun’s place, which is found at the degree of the
crepusculine, or parallel’s depression ; opposite to which
you will ﬁnd the distance which you have taken, with
the proportional part near it, omitting that primary one
of the natural Sun; for it is of no consequence to take
the degree and minute of the crepusculiue depressiOn ;
but it is enough if you take the integral degree nearest
the Sun’s longitude distance, taken with the propor
tional part. For example; In John Duke Rainutius
Famese, the Sun’s distance from the horoscope is
18° 56', to the latitude of the country 44°; opposite to
13° of the depression, under 10° of v, the distance
is 18° 32', under 20° of M the distance is 19° 1', the dif
ference is 29’, from which, for the 6‘ (for the Sun is
in 16° of tr) 17' are due, which, when added together,
the distance is l8° 49', but the Sun’s distance 18° 56';
yet this is nothing to the purpose, as the distance is but
64 PRIMUM mom“.
small, therefore make use of the former lB'-49’, with.
out any regard to that of the Sun, 18° 56'. To the
same depression of the crepusculine 13°, under 0° 0'
of 95, the place of the quartile of Mars, I take the
secondary distance, 24° 45’, from which I subtract the
Sun's distance obtained after taking the part propor
tional, which is 18° 49'; and I suppose that the Sun
in the nativity might have this distance from the horo~
scope, that I may place it under the crepusculine circle
13° exactly. But if you are desirous to have the cre
pusculine circle in minutes, take the proportional part ;
but it would be attended with greater trouble than ad
vantage; for you will ﬁnd the difference in the ascen
sions almost imperceptible, and not greater than that
which arises from the difference of some minutes of
the pole’a elevation of the circle of position, in which
all professors entirely omit the minutes. \Vherefore,
when you have occasion to use the ortive diii'erence, do
as already mentioned, &c. of which examples follow
in Gustavus King of Sweden, Odoardus Cardinal Far
nese, Rainutius, of whom we have just now spoken,
~and John Columna, which are given by Argo]. 'Had
I met with more examples of other authors, relating to
this point, I would have undertaken to give you a tho
rough examination. I alledge nothing of my own ob
servations, lest they should be rejected as spurious and
false; but from these four, and all examples that Argol
gives of this nature, I think, that to any one diligent
in searching into the truth of things, my opinion on
this subject will appear highly satisfactory. But if,
again, the Sun possesses the evening twilight, the same
" “ “TH—'sf-FJ:
Pmmm momma. 65
method entirely is to be observed, except only changing
the manner. Let the Sun’s direction be to the place of
the aspect, by the oblique descension, or the oblique as
cension of the opposite places under the Pole of the
country ; then let the Sun’s distance be taken from the
west, by the same desccnsions or opposite ascensions;
let this distance be required in the table of twilight,
which, if it be greater than the whole quantity of the
crepusculine to the inferior parallels, 18°, the Sun is no
longer in the crepusculine; and then we must make
use of the following Canon. Lastly, let the secondary
distance under the same crepusculine circle be taken,
namely, of the occurrent place, and let the lesser be sub
tracted from the greater, and the remainder added to
the arc of direction found above, if the secondary distance
be greater than the primary ; but let_ it be subtracted, if
less (that is, in a manner contrary from that we spoke of
above) 3 and the sum or remainder is the true are of the
direction.
CANON XXI.
To direct the Sun whenfound in the Space of the obscure
Arcs to the Cmy'unctt'ons and other Aspects.
When the Sun is under the Earth, and distant from
the horizon, either eastern or western, more than the
whole Crepuscular Arc, it is then in the obscure are.
First, take the Sun’s semi-nocturnal are, from which
subtract the whole crepusculine are, which you will
have at the inferior parallel '18"; and the remainder is
the obscurearc, which you must observe in a separate
place; then take the semi-nocturnal arc of the place of
L .
u.“ 7
56
the occourse, from which subtract the whole are of cre
pusculine, that is, that which is found there by the Sun ;
and this you will have, under the degree of the occurrent
place to the inferior parallel, 18°, and there will remain
the obscure arc of this place of the occourse. Thirdly,
take the Sun’s right distance from the imum caeli. Lastly,
by the rule of proportion, say, if the obscure arc of the
Sun gives his distance from the imam cmli, what distance
' will the obscure arc of the occurrent place give? and you
will know the secondary distance of the place of the 0c-~
course, and you must proceed to the end in the same
manner as set forth in Canon XIX, as if the obscure
arc “were semi-diurnal or semi-nocturnal.
Suppose the Sun to be in 29° 31' of w, as in the
fourth example produced by Argol in his ﬁrst edition
of Critical Days ; if 1!. be in 3° 21' of A, with
l 40’ north latitude, as it is placed in the more correct
tables; in the imum cwh', 24° of 1‘ , whose right ascen
sion is 263° 28' ; but as it’s declination is 0° ‘12' north,
t happens that its parallel of declination falls in 29° 30’
of x in the ecliptic, to which the Sun moves by direc
tion.
PRIMUM MOBILE.
Ofthe 9.
From the semi‘nocturnalarc . . , .
Arc of the erepuscular, take . . . o l 48
Are which remains obscure . . . . . 5 35
Right ascension . . . . . . . . 301 42
Distance from the imum ccli . . . . 38 14
rnimm Mount. 67
.Ofthe Part 29° 30’ of X.
h
Semi-nocturnal arc .. t _ . . . . 6
Crepusculine arc . . . . . . . l
Theobscurearc . . . . . . . . 4 18
Right ascension ' ._ . . . . . . 359 33
Primary distance from the imum cali . . 96 5
Now, by the golden rule, if the Sun’s obscure are,
5! 35', gives its distance from the imum cmli, 38° 14',
the obscure arc of the ashect gives its secondary distance
from the imum cmli 29° 26', which, subtracted from the
primary, as both that and the secondary distance of the
aspect or place are from the same cardinal house and
descendant hemisphere,leaves the are of direction 66° 39'.
Then for the equation, add this to the Sun’s right as
cension, and it makes the aggregate 368° 21' ; from
which, subtracting the integer circle 360, there remains
8° 21’, which answers to 9 of m, at which the Sun,
from the hour of the nativity, arrives in 67 days, com
prehending so many years of age, at which time the na~
tive shewed himself capable of discharging the highest
honours, and accordingly was raised to them; the rays
meeting in the place of direction, are the quintile of Ve
nus, aud the sextile of the Sun, proper. See another ex
ample of Card. Salviatis, explained further on to the 47th
year, wherein is a calculation of the Sun’s direction to the
parallel of Jupiter’s declination. You mayliltewise per
form these calculations ‘hy logistical logarithms. These
two examples serve also for the subsequent Canon, and are
a convincing proof that I am right in my opinion. See
68 PRXMUM momuz.
other examples calculated in Charles V, Francis I, King
of France, and others.
CANON XXII. ’
To direct the Sun, wherever found, to the Parallels.
It was thought proper to call those parallels, which
are commonly called antiscions, it being necessary to
preserve the latitude of the planets in taking them. And,
' asI have said, those stars only are alternately in the an
tiscions which describe the same parallel or parallels, as
Ptolemy says; that is, those which have the same de
clination, both in number and name, are called primary
antiscions; or only in numben, which are places of au
thority, and subjection; wherefore, if you want to direct
the Sun to the parallels ofaplanet, ﬁrst take their decli
nation, by observing their latitude, then take the degree
and minute of the ecliptic answering to the same decli
nation. Now when the o, by the motion of direction,
arrives at the same declination, or degree, and minute of
the ecliptic, it will be said to have reached the parallel or
antiseions of those stars ; take, therefore, the right or oh
- liqne ascension of that degree and minute of the ecliptic,
the semi-diurnal or nocturnal arc, the horary times, and ‘
every thing else, according as the situation of the Sun
requires. See the example in the former Canon.
CANON XXIII.
Tb direct the Signiﬁcator, wherever it is found, 0Cm~
panied with Latitude, to the Coly'unction and Rugs.
As the Sun, whilst he is moved in a right direction,
PntMt'M MOBILE. 69
advances on his real way, which is the ecliptic, even so
the other moderators, whose motion is latitudinal, whilst
they are moved by direction, advance upon their true
and real way, which is that of their successive latitude ;
I say, successive latitude, by reason that it is not always
the same as in the nativity, or in the beginning of the di
rection’s motion, but is changed according as such pro- _
rogators vary the distance from their nodes, as has been '
observed; then, as the conjunction in the Zodiac hap- '
pens when the stars are in the same longitude and become
alternately nearer, and the opposition in the greater al
ternate distance, not omitting their. latitude, when it
happens to be great; consequently the directions of the
prorogators moving latitudinally to the conjunctions
and rays in the Zodiac, upon their true and real latitu
dinal ways, should be calculated, omitting the latitude
of the occourses, either through the conjunctions or rays.
But the ways of directing differ in nothing from the
abovementioned, except that, what has been said of the
Sun, constituted below the Earth, is omitted in the other
_ prorogators; for, having found the direction’s place, ac
cording to longitude and latitude, that is, according to
the latitude of the signiﬁcath in the direction’s place, in
proportion to the distanceithere from their nodes, take
the right or oblique ascension of that place, the semi
diurnal or semi-nocturnal are, the horary Mes, right
distance, &c. ahyays in'the same manner, both above
and below the earth; of which mention has been made.
See examples in Charles_V, Henry IV, Ste. Ste;
,70 ranttm uomur.
Canon XXIV.
1b direct the Sigmﬁcator with Latitude, wherever it i:
found, to the Parallels of Declination.
' ' First ﬁnd the declination of the star, to whose paral—
Iel the signiﬁcator is said to he carried; then in the
body of the table ofdeclination, look up or down accord
ing to the order of degrees and signs from the signiﬁca
tor's place, changing also the latitude in the same man
ner as the signiﬁcath varies in his motion, till you come
to the declination of the promittor or star found as above;
and when you have obtained it, take the right ascension
or oblique ascension of that place according to its lati
‘ tude and longitude, &c. and you will have every thing
entirely in the same manner as before explained. You
have examples in Sebastian King of Portugal, Ferdinand
Gonzagius, Cardinal Salviata, Zachia, Veros'pus, Spinelli,
and others. ' See likewise the seven nativities, which,
for my own purpose, I lately extracted out of Maginus ;
in all which, by ah exact calculation, you will ﬁnd that
the true prorogator of life, when chosen as the doctrine
of Ptolemy teaches, arrived at such a parallel of declina
‘tion, atthe time of death. You will know whether the
prordgator may fall on the parallels'of declination of the '
stars, by observing the following rule : If the prorogator
leavesthe tropics, so as to lessen his declination, he will
fall on the parallels of those stars, whose declination is
less than his ; and if it departs from the equinoctial, on
the parallels of greater declination.
anrm MOBILE. 71
CANON XXV.
To direct the Signiﬁcators to their own proper Rays in the
Zodiac.
First mark out the proper ray of the signiﬁcator lon
gitudinally in the ecliptic, if it be the Sun, or latitudi
nally if the Moon, preserving that latitude which it hath
in the place of the ray, according to its distance there
from its nodes; then take the right or oblique ascen‘
sion of the aspect, longitudinally and latitudinally; and
work according to the foregoing rule. See an example
in Charles V. Meanwhile, observe that the angles are
not directed to the planetary rays in the Zodiac ; neither
to the parallels, nor the proper rays, for they receive
only the rays of the stars taken in the world. These we
shall mention in the following Part.
72 ' rnmu'u MOMLB.
_
PART III.
_—
To calculate the Directions to the
Aspects in the World.
ASPECTS in the world are proportional distances
acquired by motion round the world ; for every star, after
leaving the east, when its distance is the third part of its
diurnal arc, is in the * to the east, when the half part
is in the quadrate; when two third parts is in the A,
when the whole diurnal arc is in the 8, for it is in the
west; therefore the ﬁrst house has the * with the
eleventh and third houses, quadrate with the tenth and
fourth, A with the ninth and ﬁfth. The second house
has its at: with the twelfth and fourth, its quadrate with
the eleventh and ﬁfth, its A with the tenth and sixth.
The third house hathits- >l< with the ﬁrst and ﬁfth, its
quadrate with the twelfth and sixth, its trine with the
eleventh and seventh.
And thus the houses, always in the same manner,
through the diurnal and nocturnal arcs, differ between
each other. The stars also have their mutual aspects
alternately from those houses, with such rays as are
taken in the world, whatever may be their latitude or
declination. Farther, as those houses have no real ex
istence, and no distinction, or are proper by nature, force,
or limits, but from the stars ; so that if they had no ex
”, V I 7-.,,.d.___.__, w_, ‘ ‘ ﬁ~u ‘_‘ _
anuu momma. 73
istence, and did not move round the world, there could
be no place in the heavens for the houses or their par
titions, as I have fully demonstrated in the Celestial
Philosophy. Now, the houses are not alternately as
pected, with respect to one another; but it is the stars
that aspect, constitute, and are the measure of the houses;
and for this reason they mutually and alternately aspect
each other from those houses ; and to these and the car
dinal signs they direct their aspects. But in the par
tition of the houses by the duplicate horary times, or,
according to Ptolemy, by the two temporal hours, no
respect is had to the ecliptic, just as if there was no
ecliptic in the heavens ; but we respect always the diur.
nal and nocturnal arcs of the stars. And it follows,
that even the aspects of the stars to the houses, and vice
versa, from the houses, which I thought ﬁt to call mun
dane, have no respect to the ecliptic, but to the diur
nal and nocturnal arc of every single star, or to their
motion round the world. All this, if rightly understood,
will render every calculation in this Third Part perfectly
easy.
Canon XXVI.
To direct at Cardinal Signs to the Cmy'mtctimzs and
Opposition.
If you direct the right cardinal sign, take'its right as—
cension from that of the occurrent star, preserving its la
titude, and the remainder isthc arc-of direction required.
In like manner to the opposition, keeping to the contra
ry latitude. If you direct the cardinal sign ol‘the ascend
aut, take its oblique ascension iron that of the occurrent
M
74 mmuu momma.
star, carrying the oblique ascension of both to the la
titude of the country, but always preserving the latitude
of the occurrent star, the remainder will be the arc of
direction required. To the 8 use the ascensions ofthe
opposite places. The ascendant may be directed to the
stars without the oblique ascension; for if you subtract
the semi-diurnal are from the star’s right ascension,
and from the remainder take the right ascension of the
medium catli, what remains is the arc of direction re
quired. Or, if you subtract the star’s primary distance,
that is, betwixt it and the imam coali, from its semi
nocturnal are, the remainder is the arc of direction. But
if the star has not reached the imum cwli, add its prima
ry distance from the imum cali to its semi-nocturnal arc; '
and the sum will be the arc of direction.
These calculations are easy, and need no example;
and from what‘will be said afterwards, they will still be
easier. To the ﬁxed stars, in like manner, by the as
censions, &c. by taking their oblique ascension, with
the help of the ascensional difference, if their latitude
be extensive.
CANON XXVII.
To direct the Medium Caeli to the Sextile, Quartile, and
' Trine. ’
Now, it is plain from what has been said, that the in
termediate rays to the angles are taken by dividing the
semi-nocturnal 0r semi-diurnal are into three equal parts ;
or, which is the same, by doubling the horary times of
the aspecting stars, by which is known the space of the
houses, as to longitude, what the measure in degrees and
PRIMUM moans. 75
stay of those stars in their motions round the world is.
\Vhen this is known, it is very easy to calculate the di
rections of the angles to the intermediate rays ofthe stars;
for the sextile is the distance of two houses, the square
three, the trine four; and these are called secondary dis
tances. So, if you want the at: to the medium calf,
which begins from the eighth house, add two diurnal
houses, that is, the stars diurnal horary times twice
doubled to the right ascension of the star. If you want
the other Sextile, which is produced by the 12th house,
subtract, in the same manner, the two diurnal houses
£rom the right ascension, and from the sum or remain?
der take the right ascension of the medium cali, and it
will give the arc of direction. But if you seek for the
Triue, which originates from the sixth house, subtract
two nocturnal houses from the star’s right ascension:
if you seek for the other Triue, which comes from the
second house, add the two nocturnal houses to the star's
right ascension, and from the remainder or sum sub
tract the right ascension of the imu-m cali, the remainder
will be the are of direction—of the medium eneli t0 the A
and imum caeli to * of the star. Lastly, if you want the
are of direction to the square, direct the star to the hori
zon, as above mentioned. But if you have already the
primary distance of the star from the medium cali, if the
star is in the ascending part of heaven, subtract the se
condary of the sextile from the primary of the star from
the medium cteli, and you will have the arc of direction
of * to the medium cmli ,- subtract that star’s primary
distance front the imwm cash from the sextile’s secondary,
and you will have the arc of direction to the trine of
76 nmrm moans.
the medium cmh'. But if the star is in the descending
part of heaven, subtract its primary distance from the
mdium coali from that of the sextile’s secondary, and you
will have the arc of direction to the sextile. Subtract
the secondary of .the sextile to the imum cali from the
stars primary distance, and you will have the arc of di
rection of the trine. But if the star passes from the
ascendant to the descendant part of heaven, or on the
contrary, add both distances together, and you will have
the arc of direction.
Note. The A ray to the medium cmli is the * to the
imumcaali, and the a: to the medium cali is the A to the
imum cali. Lastly, the rays to the angles are easily
calculated by the oblique ascension of every house; for
after taking the star's oblique ascension, under the pole
of that house, from which it emits the ray to the medium
0091i, and taking the oblique ascension of the house
from that of the star, there will remain the arc of direc
tion required. But if the star goes to project the ray to
the descending part of heaven, use the oblique ascension
of the opposite place, and this method is of use also in
the following Canon, and is, of all, the most expeditious.
CANON XXVIII.
To direct the Oblique Cardinal Sign to the Sextile,
Quartile, and Trine.
If you require the rays to the horoscope, which are
projected from supra-terraneous places, divide the semi
diumal are of the aspectirxg star into three equal parts,
or into two din-ma] horary times, and you will have the
spaces of the houses that are above the earth. If you add
.,‘_
I
PRIMUM momma. 77
two of these to the star’s oblique ascension, taken in
the horoscope, and from the sum subtract the horoscope's
oblique ascension, what remains is the horoscope’s are
of direction to the sextilc of the star, produced from the
eleventh house; but if you add four houses, and from the
sum subtract the horoscope’s oblique ascension, you
will have the arc of direction to the trine which is caused
“by the ninth house.
Another way.-—Subtract one house from the star's
right ascension, and from the remainder take the right
ascension of the medium cacli,‘ and there will remain the
direction’s arc to thesextile; add one house to the star’s
right ascension; from the sum subtract that of the me
dium cali, and you will have the direction's arc to the
trine, that is, to the horoscope.
But if you are desirous to ﬁnd the rays that are
emitted from subterraneous places, divide the star’s semi.
nocturnal are into three equal parts, or its double noc
turnal horary times, and you will have the space of the
houses that are below the earth ; of these, for the sextile,
which proceeds from the third house, by subtracting
two; and for the trine, which is produced from the
ﬁfth, by subtracting four from the star’s oblique ascen
sion taken in the horoscope; and if from the remainders
you subtract the horoscope's oblique ascension, you will
have the arcs of direction to the sextile and trine. -You
may also use the imum 0125 by the right ascension, as has
been said of the medium cwli. Quadrate rays are proi
duced by the medium cali and the imam cab' ,' therefore,
for these, direct the stars to the medium and i-nmm calz',
as has been said in Canon XXVI. Let there bean ex
78 ‘ PRIMUM norms. ‘
ample for both Canons, under the Pole's elevation 45°,
the ascendant 13° 30' of 119. -In the medium cali, let
us suppose 12° 0' of 111, whose right ascension 219° 33',
the boroscope’s oblique ascension 309° 33’. Let the
Sun be in 1° 0’ of 1:9, within the twelfth heuse, the Sun's
right ascension 271° 5’, the oblique ascension to the
Pole 45°, is 296°‘51' ; the diurnal horary times 10° 42',
which, being doubled, constitutes the diurnal house, or
the third part of the Sun’s semi-diurnal are 21° 24'. If
I want to direct the horoscope to the sextile of the Sun,
I add to the oblique ascension the Sun’s horary times,
twice doubled, which makes 339° 39'. i From which I
' subtract the horoscope's oblique ascension, and there
remains the arc of direction 30° 6'. And observe, that
the are of direction consists of 8° ~44’ preceding the
direction, and likewise of the Sun’s duplicate horary
times; that is, of one house, or 21.24. Wherefore,
from the bare adding of this one house to the computed
direction of the sextile to the medium cali, there arises
the are of.direction of the horoscope to * of Q .
I want to direct the horoscope to the u of the Sun :
I subtract the right ascension of the medium cali from
that of the Sun, and there-remains the arc of direction,
51.32; 'or to the sextile’s arc of direction 30.6, above
calculated. I add the Q ’s duplicate diurnal horary times
21.24,.and the are ofdirectionis 51.30. In like man
ner, if to this I add the duplicate, horary times, I make.
the arc of direction to the trine of the horoscope, 72.54
Again, if I, add to this the geminated horary times, the
direction’s arc of the medium caeli, to the Sun’s sextile,
will be 94.18, and so in all of them. Under the earth,
PRIMUM MOBILE. 79
we must make use of the nocturnal horary times, and
the semi-nocturnalarc; but the direction both of the
cardinal signs and houses to the rays of the sextile,
quartile, and trine, are calculated (in a manner much
easier than any of the afore-mentioncd) by the oblique
ascension of those‘houses from which the stars project
the rays, as is before recited, and as may be seen in
the former Canon. This Canon needs no other exam
ple,‘ nevertheless you will meet with several in the
sequel.
CANON XXIX.
To direct the Cardinal Signs to the Rays of the Quintile,
Sesqui~quadrate, and Biquintile.
Beside the usual rays of the *, m, A, and 3, I
only suppose the quintile, sesqui-quadrate, and biquin—
tile, to be powerful, as experience evinces from the
symmetrical concerts of sound, from which the very
excellent Kepler, in a most exquisite manner of re
semblance, collects the rays-of the stars in the heavens.
Whatever may he the opinion of others, with regard
to the semi-sextile, semi-quadrate, and several others,
to which it seems quite absurd to assign any efﬁcacy
(with this one exception), I confess, that in the semi
quadrate’s distance, sounds begin to arrive at a degree
of harmony, but altogether imperfect; to this, there
fore, some portion of efﬁcacy may be attributed; and,
on this principle, I think that neither the Sun nor Moon
become the prorogators of life, except they be semi
quadrate distance from the horoscope, or half of their
semi-diurnal are above it. We may easily calculate the
80 rmth manna.
sesqui-quadrate ny to the cardinal signs, for it consists
of the quarter of the world, and half of another quar
ter; or, of' the semi-diurnal or nocturnal arc; and,
also, of half of the same, or another, so that the stars
have this ray to the medium coeh', and the east, in the
mean distance between the west and imam caeli ,- to the
medium eatii and west, in the mean distance from the
{mum cwli to the east; to the west and int-um melt, in
the middle distance between the' east and the medium
caeli, to the imum and east; in the middle distance
between the medium cazli and the west. For the calcu
lation, divide. the semi-diurnal are into two equal parts ;
or, as occasion requires, the semi-nocturnal arc of the
star, and this half part is the secondary distance from
both the cardinal signs, as before mentioned.--In the
example of the former Canon, the_Sun forms the sesqui
quadratc to the west, and to thdimum cmli : when it is
the mean distance between the east and medium omli, the
Sun's semi-diurnal arc is 64.12, the half of which is
326 ; wherefore I subtract this secondary distance from
the primary, which is betwixt it and the medium cacli,
being 51.32, and there remains the arc of direction
[9.26. But as this secondary distance, as well from
the preceding as the succedent cardinal house, is the
same, the Sun’s primary distance from the east. is 12.40.
I subtract this- from the secondary, and the remainder is
the same are of direction, 19.26. Likewise, half the
same semi-diurnal arc consists of the triplicate horary
times ; wherefore, if we add the Sun's horary times to
its distance from the twelfth house, which was the arc
of direction of the medium cttli to the Sun’s *, that
PRIMUM monies. ‘ 81
is, 8° 44', the Sun’s horary times are 10° 42'; the sum
is the arc of direction 19° 26'. You see, therefore; there
are several ways of directing the angles to the aspects of
the stars; but to calculate the rays quintileand biquin-i
tile with ease and exactness, we must understand the
following Pentagonal ﬁgure, _~ "'11
--: _. l’fidilisﬁllf“) yen-1t '1. 3.
I i " ,uiitttrup 3;". l".
'(I'lf' tin" '
\~ \4 I b \
uj 'A inir-q 9d 'ti hilt; .iroitie _
7 ’ within no'rim't ,' ,
r :vodnplimnip -
Iii-:13?“- wrif 32* aft.
tt' Heist“. Jr‘lrum'
v
'JII.
,7 .
.taln
‘~ .11.] limit uir
,QBI' ,2} 1m,
"'Jrnlt ' I v I
.:'ti':nitl ml! My"
'F I,n'oiit writ 1'), a
wherein the Point" A may represent any’cardinal sign
of the world, or any other signiﬁcator to‘ be directed to
the quintile and biquintile: the points F, G, H, are
the other three cardinal signs; B is the code!" the quin
tile, C of the biqtjintile, D the poiht of another quin
tile, E of another biquintile, and F of the opposition ;
the four lines AG, CF, FH, HA,'are the quadrates or
‘ N .
82 enmtm noaiu.
quarters of the world, or arcs, which are effected by the
stars in those. quarters, and are semi-diurnal or semi
nocturnal, which may be various in quantity, according
to the variety of the declination of the stars, and alti
tude of the pole. If the point A may be said to be the
medium cazli, divide the semi-diurnal arc of the aspect
ing star into ﬁve equal parts, four of which constitute
the ray quintile, both in the points D and B: also let
the semi-nocturnal are be divided into ﬁve equal parts;
three parts added to the whole semi-diurnal arc, consti
tute the biquintile rays in the point EC; so that two
parts out of ﬁve of the semi-nocturnal are are wanting
“to the opposition. But if the point A represents the
horoscope, four out of ﬁve parts of the semi-diurnal arc
makes the quintile above the earth, and so many of the
semi-nocturnal are under the earth ; and adding the other
four to both of them, makes the biquintile. It is to be
known, likewise, that the quintile ray, compared to
the as, is greater than the as by its ﬁfth part; for it
consists of twelve degrees more than the it, which
is the ﬁfth part of_ the late, or 60°; compared to the
quadrate, it is less by ﬁve parts of the same quadrate,
that is, 18°, which are the ﬁfth part of that n, or
90°; and the biquintile is greater than the A, by its
ﬁfth part, viz. 24°, which are the ﬁfth part of the trigon
or 120°, but is less than the 3 by ﬁve parts, that is,
36° of the 8, viz. 180°, or three parts out of ﬁve of
the as, that is, made at the g ; from these it is_in
ferred that there are two ways very easy to calculate the
directions of ~these rays. -
The ﬁrst is, by adding the quintile’s distance to th
PRXMUM MOBXLE. 88
ascension of the aspecting star, if it precedes the car
dinal sign that is directed ; or by subtracting, if it fol
lows; and from the sum or remainder, subtracting the
cardinal ascension, for the remainder is the arc of direc
tion required. '
Let there be an example of the Quintile.
We have said, in the above given example, thelSun’s
oblique ascension is 296° 51', that is, to the latitude t
of the country; the semi-diurnal are 64° 12‘, the
ﬁfth part of which is l2°50'; which taken from the
whole semi~diurnal arc, leaves four of the ﬁve parts
of that semi-diurnal arc, viz. 51° 22'. I add these
to the Sun’s oblique ascension taken in the horo
scope, as it precedes it; and I make the aggregate
348° 18', from which I subtract the horoscope’s oblique
ascension, and there remains the arc of direction
38° 40’, viz. the quintile of Sol to the horoscope.
OrI subtract 51° 22’ from the Sun’s right ascension,
which is 27l° 5’, by reason it succeeds the medium cwli,
and the remainder is 219° 43'; from these subtract~
ing the right ascension of! the medium cali, which is
219° 83', leaves the arc of direction of the medium cali to
the Sun’s quintile 0° 10' ; or I subtract the quintile’s
secondary distance, which is 5l° 22', from the Sun’s
primary distance from the medium calj, which is
51° 32’, and there remains the same are of direction
0' 10’. '
Of the biquintile, care must be taken that if we
want to subtract the distance of this ray, which con.
sists of eight parts out of ten of the whole diurnal or
nocturnal arc, when to those rays we direct either the
84ff nmuru uonru.
medi'um 0r imum omli; instead of these ﬁve parts, we
must take the whole semi-diurnal or nocturnal arc of
the aspecting star of the other hemisphere the other
threepf. the same hemisphere in which the star re
rnains; but ofthe biquintile, let us reject this method.
The easier way, which also serves for all these rays,
whenever the signiﬁcators, as we call them, are found
out of the izardinal signs, is this: I
, When you have found the arc of direction, either to the
sextile, quartile, or opposition, by only adding or sub-.
tracting the proportional parts,‘by which the quintile,
sesqui-guadrate, and biquintile, are greater or less than
the other ray,; we shall obtain the arc of direction; for,
ifyou havethe arc of direction to the *, and want the
|arneltq the quintile, add, if the quintile bc subsequent,
pipsubtract it precedes the ﬁfth part of the sextile to
pr from its arc of direction, and the remainder or aggre
gate is the arc of direction required. But, remember
the * consists of the diurnal horary times, four times'
computed, if the aspecting star be above the earth; of
the nocturnal, if below. Or if you have the arc of di
rection to the quartile, for the quintile add, if it succeed ;
or subtract, if the quintile precede the ﬁfth part of the
quadrate, to or from that quartile’s arc of direction.
If you have the arc of direction to the trine, and want
‘that of the sEsqui7qu:tdrate, add, if this follows, or sub
tract, if it precedes, the horary times of the aspecting star,
by which the sesqui-quadratc is greater than the trine.
_thn _say horary times, understand diurnal, if the
aspectin'g star be above the! earth, andvnoctumal if
=l3“:l°‘?_t'-. . h... . _ -1_,._, _' t. .I
. Pin MUM Momma“ 85
If you require the direction’s are to the, biquintile,
aud have already thearc of direction to the trine, multi-_
ply four times the diurnal horary times of the aspecting
star, if it be above the earth; the nocturnal, if under.
the earth; and, from~ the product, take two of the ﬁve
parts, which add, if the biquintile succeeds the trine;
but, if it precedes, subtract from the triue’s arc of di
rection, and the remainder or sum is the are of direc-_ '
tion to the biquintile; but if you have the direction’s
arc to the opposition, take two of the ﬁve parts of the '
star’s semi-diurnal are, if it is above the earth; or semi
nocturnal, if below; and if the biquintile succeeds the
'opposition, add to the same direction’s are; but, if it
recedes, subtract these two parts, and the remainder,
or sum, is the are of direction to the biqui/ntile. As
in the example of the former Canon, the are of direc
tion of the medium cwli to the Sun’s scxtile is 8° 44',
the Sun’s diurnal horary times, as being above, the
Earth, are 10° 44'; four times computed makes. the
sextile’s quantity 42° 48’, whose ﬁfth part is 8" 34'; I
therefore take 8° 34’ from the sextile’s arc of direction,
.for the quintile to the medium cmli, because it precedes
the sextile, and there remains the are of direction to
the Sun's quiutile 0° 10’. The direction of the imam
__ca:li to the Sun’s sesqui-quadrate (as it follows the tritic),
is had by adding the Sun’s diurnal horary times 10.0 42',
to the are of direction of the medium cmli to its its,
which is the A _ to the imum cazli, and the arc of direc
tion becomes 19° 26', as abovet ‘ ~ _
Of the imum cali, to the'Sun’s biquintile, by adding
{as it succeeds the A), two of the ﬁfth parts of the Sun’s
86 ramrm menu.
diurnal 4k, because it is above the Earth, which, as we
have said, is 42° 48', whose ﬁfth part 8° 34’, doubled,
makes 17° 8' ; 'wherefore the arc of direction becomes
25° 52’.‘ ‘
Another way.—The are of direction of the medium
cali to the Sun, or of the imam cozli to the Sun’s 8 ,
is 51° 32'; from this I subtract (as the biquintile pre
cedes) three parts out of ﬁve of the as of the Sun
diurnal, that is, 25° 40', and there remains the arc of
direction 25° 52', as above. '
The direction of the horoscope to the Sun’s quintile
is thus obtained :
\Ve have already, in the former Canon, calculated
the Sun’s sextile to the horoscope, which was 30° 6’;
to this I add (as the quintile succeeds the sextile) the
ﬁfth part of the Sun’s sextile ray, which is 8" 34', and
I make the horoscope's arc of direction to the quintile
of the Sun 33° 40'.
Another nwthod.—The Sun's semi-diurnal arc, which
is the quadrate to the-horoscope, is 64° 12' (that is, of
the distance, not of direction), its ﬁfth part is l2° 50',
which is the Sun’s secondary distance from the medium
mall, the primary is 51° 32’ ; from which, subtracting
that of the secondary, leaves the arc of direction 38° 42'
greater than the former by 2', by reason of thefrac
tions that are to be met with in the different calcu
lations. ,
\Ve have said, that the horoscope’s direction to the
Sun's trine was 72° 56'; to this I add the Sun's horary
times, 10° 42’, and I make the horoscope’s arc of di
rection, to the Sun’s sesqui-quadrate, 83° 38'; or, I
87
add the Sun’s semi-diurnal arc, 64° 12’, to the arc of
direction of the imam cali, to the Surr‘s sesqui-quadrate,
which was, as we have said, 19° 26’, and it produces
the same are of direction, 83° 38'.
And it is the same in all of them; so that by addition
and subtraction only, the arc of direetion of those rays
may be calculated with the greatest exactness. But, if
any one would provide himself with a Ptolemaic Plani
sphere, with the horary circles, crepuscules, the Zo
diac’s latitude, and all other things requisite, it would
be of very great service towards foreseeing the aspects,
before the calculation, both of this and the following
Canons.
PRXMUM MOBILE.
I
CANON XXX.
To direct any Signiﬁcator, being placed about the Cusps
of the Cardinal Houses, to the 6 and '3 . '
Understand this, as within 3° beyond, or on this
side the cusp, the right ascension of the Prorogator, if
he possesses the right circle; or the oblique, if the ob
lique, is to be taken to the polar elevation of the house
in which it remains; which subtract from the right
ascension—of the occurrent, or the oblique taken to the
same pole, preserving the latitude of both, and the re
mainder is the arc of direction required. In the oppo
sition, the contrary latitude of the occurrent place
preserved; the difference in regard to preserving tilt!)
latitude, between this Canon and XVII and XVIII, is,
that .the 6 and 8 are there taken in the Zodiac, but
here in the world; those aspects in the same real longia
88
'tude, but these in the horary circle: as in the example,
Canon XVII, theiright ascension of 2 , with latitude,
is 261° 52’, from which, subtracting the right ascension
of the Sun, which is 215° 58', there remains the Sun’s
arc of direction to the 6 of 2 in the world 45“ 54’.
Concerning the Sun constituted below the Earth, the
things to be avoided shall he mentioned in a proper
Canon, viz. XXXV. The signiﬁcator, when found
distant from the cusp of the house, is directed in the
manner explained in Canon XIX, except only that the
latitude of both should, as we have remarked, be pre
served.
PRIMUM MOBIL!
CANON XXXI.
T0 direct any Significator, when near the Cardinal
IIouses, to the at, D , or A. '
If the signiﬁcator has the same ascension exactly to
minutes, as the angle, or the other houses, wherein he
is found, then, as it is on the cusp, the directions to
the sextile, quartile, and trine, are made like those of
the angle, as before explained: but if it is not on the
cusp, exact to the minutes, provided its distance be not
more than 3° of the equator, add the ascension or de
scension of the signiﬁcath to that of the angle, or house,
so that the signiﬁcator may be constituted on the cusp of
the angle or house. {according to this situation, by
adding or subtracting 30° you will constitute the ascen
sions of the other houses as usual 5 and by subtracting the
ascensions of the houses (from whence the star aspects
the signiﬁcator) frdm the ascension of that star, .taken_
under the pole of the same house, you will have the
PRIMUM‘ MOBILE. 89
are of direction. As, for example, in Cardinal Gym
naseus, the Sun is in the ninth house, not 3° of the
equator distant from the cusp, the oblique ascension of
the Sun’s opposite place under the pole of the third
house, which is 18°, is 314° 0’. I want to direct the
Sun to the sextile of Jupiter, which Jupiter has to the
Sun from the cusp of the seventh, wherefore I subtract
60 from the oblique ascension of. the third house, con
stituted in the Sun’s opposition, and there remains the
horoscope’s oblique ascension 254° 0’, that is, sup
posing that the Sun remains on the cusp of the ninth
house, though, indeed, it is about 3° distance. Lastly,
I subtract this oblique ascension of the horoscope
254° from the oblique ascension of Jupiter’s opposite
place, taken in the horoscope, which is 296° 52', and
there remains the arc of direction, 42° 52’. For the
subsequent square which Jupiter has to the Sun from
'the sixth house, I add to this are of direction the du
plicate nocturnal horary times of it, by reason that the
sixth house is below the Earth : for the A I add again
the duplicate nocturnal horary times of at, Ste. '
CANON XXXII.
To direct~ any Signiﬁcator, when found beyond the Cusp
of the Cardinals and Houses, to the * , o , and A.
Find the horary times of the signiﬁcator, or its semi
diurnal arc, if it be above the earth; or semi-nocturnal
are, if below, and its distance from the cusp of the
preceding or succeeding house, as you please. Find,
also, the horary times, the semiediurnal are, or semi
nocturnal arc of the promittor, with this proviso :--If
0
90 Ptumm momma.
the promittor's ray, to which you direct the signiﬁcator,
projects‘from places above the earth, take the diurnal
horary times, or semi-diurnal arc ; and below the earth,
the uoetumal horary times, or the semi-nocturnal arc ;
but that you will know from the houses; for the whole
tenth house has all the twelfth and eighth houses for
the sextile; the ﬁrst and seventh, for a quartile; the se
cond and sixth for the trine ; and so of the rest—Quay,
By the Golden Rule, if the horary times of the signiﬁca
tor give its distance from the house, what will the dist
ance of the promittor’s horary times give? The fourth
number that is produced, is the secondary distance of
the promittor from the'cusp of either the preceding or
succeeding house, after the same manner as you have
seen of the signiﬁcator; and from this house, the ray
is emitted by that promittor to the signiﬁcator; where;
fore, if that house precedes the promittor in both dist
ances, primary and secondary, subtract the lesser from
the greater. So, also, if it follows in both distances.
But, ﬁnally, if in the one distance it precedes, and in
the other it follows, so that the promittor, by the
motion of the direction, has passed through its cusp,
add both distances, and the remainder or sum is the
arc of direction required. Let the example be in
Cardinal Salviatis: I would direct the D to the c: of
at, which has this ray to. the D from the sixth house.
The 1)’s horary times diurnal, are 19° 5'; distance
from the medium cazli, 10° 24’. it’s horary times noc
turnal is 14° 32', and distance from the seventh house
8° 59'. Now the oblique ascension of the 8 of at is
_l93° 1' ; from which subtracting the oblique ascension
PRIMUM mourns. 91
of the horoscope, there remains the distance of Jupiter
8° 59'. But by the Golden Rule, x there arises the se
condary distance of '1]. from the west 7° 55', which,
added to the primary, because u inthe nativity is
above the west, and is placed below when the direction
is complete, makes the arc of direction 16° 54’. To
this direction, if the duplicate h0rary times nocturnal
of ‘tl. be added, as he now lustratcs the lower hemis
. phere, it makes the arc of direction to the A of '2;
45° 48’; but if‘you want the D ’s direction to the * of
7;, take the horary times diurnal of b, together with
its primary distance from the twelfth house, the fourth
emerging number is the secondary distance from the
twelfth house; from which, subtracting the primary,
because the distance from both is from the succedent
house, the remainder is the arc of direction required.
If you want the 1>'s direction to the A of 2 , ﬁnd the
horary times nocturnal of 2 , as it is below the Earth;
and its distance from the sixth house, by the oblique
ascension of the opposite places at the twelfth house.
The fourth number that is produced, is the secondary
distance of 2 from the sixth house; from which sub
tract the primary, which is less than the secondary, as
the distance of both is from the succedeut house, and.
the remainder is the arc of direction required. And
observe, that the ﬁrst number of the Golden Rule is
always either the semi-diurnal arc, or the horary times
of the signiﬁcator; the second is the distance of the
same from the nearest house.
92 ramvu MOBILE.
Canon XXXIII.
To direct any Signiﬁcator, wherever posited, to the
' Quintile, Sesqui-quadrate; or Biquintile.
The method is nearly the same as that explained in
Canon XXIX, for when any direction is known, whe
it be of the sextile, quartile, trine,’or opposition,
from only adding or subtracting the proPortional part,
whereby the rays of the quintile, sesqui-quadrate, and
biquintile, either exceed or are less than the other
rays, is produced the arc of direction. As, in the ex
ample of Cardinal Salviatis, the D ’s arc of direction to
the A of it is 45° 48'. If we add the nocturnal ho
rary times of It 14° 32’, we make the D ’s arc of direc
tion to the sequi-quadrate of u 60° 20'. But, if to
the same are of direction of the A 45° 48', we add two
of the ﬁve parts of It’s nocturnal is, which consists of
his quadruplicate nocturnal horary times, that is, 58° 8', '
the two-ﬁfth parts of these are 23° 16', we make the
D’s arc of direction to the biquiutile of 11. 69° 4'.
But, ﬁrst of all, care must be taken, that if the rays are
emitted from the superior places above the Earth, the
proportional parts of the rays to be added or subtracted,
should be taken by the diurnal horary times, or by the
semi-diurnal arc of the aspecting star; but, if from
the inferior places, or under the Earth, by the noctur
nal, as you have seen in the given example. The se
cond necessary caution is, that, to the adding or sub
tracting for the ray which is projected from the subter
raneous places, we cannot make use of the ray which is
emitted from those subterraneous places; or the con
PRIMUM MOBXLB. I 93
trary, because their transit is from one quantity of the
horary times to another; from one hemisphere to the
other; from the semi-diumal to the semi-nocturnal are,
or the contrary, from which a true proportion cannot
be had; but it is necessary, that, for the ray which is
projected from the subterraneous places, we add or sub
tract the proportional part to or from the ray which is
found above the Earth, and likewise under the Earth;
as in the example of Cardinal Sal-viatis, the direction of
the quintile of It to the D cannot be taken by sub
traction from the direction of the quartile, as the D falls
below the Earth, the quintile above. Wherefore, in
such cases as these, let the distances of the rays of
the as, n, and A, be taken in the same hemisphere
in which the signiﬁcator remains, if they fall upon
that same hemisphere; but if they fall in the other,
in which the opposition of the signiﬁcator falls, they
'mnst be taken in the other, as in the example of
Salviatis, for the quintile ofJupiter to the Moon. I
ﬁrst take the quantity of ‘tt’s diurnal it; that is,
from- the diurnal horary times, which are 15° 28',
four times computed, andthe 1 becomes 6l° 52';
the ﬁfth part of these are 12° 22', and, added to
GP 52’, they make the quantity of the ray quintile
~74° 14', and are the secondary distance of ‘1; from the
D. The oblique ascension of it’sopposition to the
pole of the I), is 190° 6’ ; this subtracted from the
oblique ascension of ‘the D’s opposition, which is
265° 33', leaves the primary distance of 1‘. from the
D 75° 17', which being greater than that of the ray by
1° 3', this quintile ray had preceded, and it had this ray,
94 ranwm mourn.
to the D in the nativity. I1. '.e example of Cardinal
Gymnasezu, the it of it [hit Sun falls above the
Earth, the quintile below; for which reason we cannot
add to the it’s arc of direction the quintile’s excess
abOVe the ray. But I direct the Sun to the quartile of
11, and from that direction I subtract the ﬁfth part.
of the nocturnal quadrate or semi'nocturual are of it,
thus :
The Sun’s direction to the n of 11. is __thus obtained :
From the Sun's semi-diumal are 7" 18', is given its‘dis
tance from the medium cali 33°3l' ; wherefore from It’s
scmi-noctumal are 7" 33' :: 113° 24’, you have his se
condary distance from the west 34° 40"; the oblique as—
cension of 14’s opposition is 812° 33'; from which, sub
tracting the oblique ascension of the horoscope, there
remains the primary distance of it from the west 61° 28' ;
but because It is above the west, and posited below, by
the direction I add both his distances together, and make
the are of direction of It’s D to the Sun 96° 8'; the
semi-nocturnal are of 1J- is 66° 36', whose ﬁfth part is
13°19’; which I subtract fromthe quadrate’s arc of di
rection 96° 8', and there remains the Sun’s arc of di
rection to the quintile of 1!. 82° 49”. There is not
any difﬁculty in the Canon, if due attention be paid to
the rays, whether. they are projected from places above
the Earth, or below, which cases seldom happen.
CANON XXXIV.
To direct the Signiﬁcators to their own Rays.
l
The Sun and Moon, only by reason that they possess
the virtue both of the signiﬁcator and promittor, ifdi~
PRXMUM momma. 95 ‘
rected to their own rays, have remarkable. effects, but the
houses are entirely excluded from their own rays; the
are of direction of each luminary’s proper sextile is that
which arises from its horary times, four times com
puted ; of the quintile, with the addition of the ﬁfth part
of that sextile; the quartile’s arc of direction is either
the semi-diurnal or nocturnal arc; and so of the rest.
If, however, the signiﬁcator in these rays passes not
from the upper to the lower hemisphere, or the contrary,
as we have said, then we must calculate in the manner
laid down in Canon XXXII, as if the Sun in the pri
mum mobile _was another promittor; and we shall know
when it happens that the significator passes to the other
hemisphere; by the oblique ascensions from which will
appear the signiﬁcator’s distance from the horimn, which
distance, if it be less, and the ray greater, that ray falls
on the other hemisphere: if the distance be greater, the
ray less, it falls on the same. As in Cardinal Gymnascus,
the Sun's proper sextile is, iiidced, a proof of itself, that
it» falls above the Earth, that is, above the west, because
the Sun is above the cusp of the 9th house; yet, if we
inquire by calculation, the Sun’s horary times are 18° 15',
which, four times computed, makes the an ray 73° ; but
the Sun’s distance from the west is 75" 56', which is
greater, and the as ray less; and, therefore, the Sun's;
ray falls upon the same hemisphere, and its are of di
rection will be from the diurnal horary times, four times
computed, 73°; but the Sun’s proper quartile falls be
low the Earth, and is to be calculated as in Canon
XXXII, as if the Sun was another promittor. Other
96 ‘ PRIMUM momma.
examples follow ; and remember, that if the Sun is below
the Earth, he must likewise be directed to the proper
rays, in the manner shewn in Canon XXXVI.
Carson XXXV. 7
To direct any Signiﬁcator whatever to the Parallek.
I call a parallel in the world, that distance which two
stars have in an equal proportion from the same angle,
the one remaining beyond, the other within ; as if one
possesses the cusp of the 11th, and the other the 9th,
then they are equally distant from the medium caeli, or me
ridian; and if one is found in the twelfth, the other in
the second, they are equally distant from the ascendant,
or horizon. But it is to be observed, that in this aspect
it not only happens that an equal proportionate distance
is formed from one of the angles, but likewise in some
manner from every one of them; as a star in the ninth
is equidistant from the medium cceli, as another star in
the llth ; and these two stars are at an equal distance
from the imum cali, and from the east and west horizon.
This will be evident, from the calculation, and should be
taken as a proof of the virtue and efﬁcacy of this aspect,
and likewise for the ease of calculation. From hence it ,
is inferred, that the calculation of this aspect may be I
made several ways, of which the easiest is by the distance
from the medium cwli, whether these two stars form a
parallel to the meridian or horizon, that is, whether both
are found above the Earth, or below it : I mean when
the direction is finished 5 for it matters not where they
remain in the nativity, If both are found above, when
rrtrMUM momma. 97
they have this parallel, take the signiﬁcator, and promit
tor’s right distance, which they have in the
nativity, from the medium cult, and this dis
' tance [call the primary. Then say, by the
Rule ofThree, if the horary times, or semi-diumal arc
of the signiﬁcator, give his distance from the medium cmli,
what distance will the promittor’s horary times give ~?
XVhen you have found that, proceed according to Canon
XIX. But if they form this aspect, while they are both
below the Earth, take the distances from the imam cali
in the same manner, and the distances from the horo
scope may be taken by the oblique ascension. If one
be above the Earth, and the other posited below, or
the contrary, take the distanceof one from the medium
ctrli, and the other from the imum call, or make use of
the opposite place of one. Examples follow.
Hitherto in this Canon, mention has been made of
the direction to the parallels in the world, with the sup
position that the signiﬁcators remain immoveable in the
horary circle of position. But because, in the nativity,
the virtue both of the signiﬁcator and promittor is im
pressed in the primum mobile, and this agreeable to the
opinion of all professors, therefore both their virtues are
conveyed, by the pri'm'um mobile, from east to west; con
sequently it may sometimes happen, that the signiﬁcator
and promittor are posited in an equal proportionate dis
tance from the same angle, that is, in a mundane paral
lel of the same kind, of which, in this Canon, We give the
calculation ; and how great the active virtue ofthis appli
cation is, will be seen in the examples following: but it
P
Mundane
Proportion.
98 r PRIMUM MOBILE.
may happen that, by direction, even ‘the signiﬁcator and
promittor, both may be posited above the Earth, or both
below ; or the one above, the other below, though in the
nativity they are dill'erent. If both are posited above the
Earth, take the semi-diurnal arc, and the signiﬁcator’s
primary distance from the, medium cmli, and the semi
diumal arc of the promittor, with his distance, in right
ascension from the signiﬁéator, subtracting the
lesser from the greater; then add their semi-diur
nal arcs together, and say, as that sum is to the
semi-diurnal arc of the promittor, so is the promittor’s
distance from the significator to the promittor’s sc
condary distance from the medium caeli; use this dis
tance, as in Canon XIX. You may likewise make use
of the promittor’s place, as signiﬁcator, together with
its semi-diurnal are, right distance, 8w. called a con
verse direction. If both are below the Earth, use the
semi nocturnal arcs and distances from the imam caeli,
in like manner. Lastly, if one be above, and the other
below the Earth, take its opposite place, and use the
semi-diurnal arc of that above the Earth, and the other's
opposite place. Examples in Henry IV, King of France;
Cardinals Pius and Gymnascus.
Canon
Caon XXXVI.
T0 direct. the Sun, when below the Earth, to the Aspects
in the lVorld.
As the situation of the immobility, or position of the
Sun, constituted below the Earth, is not the horary cir
cle after the manner of others, but either the crepuscu
lines parallel to the horizon, if the Q is in the crcpus
\
_% . __ ‘. -_-_-f
rmmm MOBILE. ~99
culines, or that which is made in the proportional dis
tances from the obscure are, as has been mentioned he
} fore, then doubtless the Stm receives the promittor’s
aspect in the world, when the promittor is proportion
ally distant from a Cardinal, or other house, as the Sun’s
distance is in the afore—mentioned places after the'di
rection is ﬁnished, where his distance is diﬂ'ereut from
his primary one in the' nativity, as has been remarked;
for the Sun changes successively his secondary distance ;
wherefore, the calculations of the Sun’s directions to the
aspects in the world, are attended with somewhat more
difﬁculty. If the Sun is in the crepusoules, ﬁrst cal
culate the Sun’s direction to the promittor's ray,
whether it be sextile, quartile, or trine, in the manner
of other significators, that is, from the proportional dis
tances from the angles, and other houses, by the ho
rary times, &c. as hath been said above, which are of
direction may be called a ﬁctitious one. Secondly, you
may know what degree of the Zodiac the Sun at that
time hath arrived at, by taking his polar elevation, in the
usual manner, and in the same place the oblique ascen
sion; and by adding thereto the false arc of direction
above taken, for this sum of the oblique ascension, will
give the degree of the Zodiac, at which the Sun arrives
in its revolution; for it is of very little, or no conse
quence, in case you do not know its true place in this
calculation. Thirdly, with the Sun’s primary distance
from the horizon, see what crepuseular parallel it pos
sesses, and in the same, take his secondary distance un
der the degree to which the supposed feigned direction
shall come; then say, tiourthly, As the 0’s nocturnal
~,,_.‘ ‘ . rm M
“a ' IM-I .___ “‘17::Ml-qr. ' —-—~~~‘
100 “more MOBILE.
horary times is to his secondary distance from the
horizon, so is the promittor’s horary times to his
secondary distance from the angle 2r other deter
minate house, to be applied as usual, and you will
have the true are of direction. Let the example
be in Cardinal Odoardus Famese; I want to direct the
o to the A of ‘24 in the world, which he has to the
Sun in an equal proportional distance from the cusp of
the ﬁfth, as the Sun is distant from the east, the Sun’s
horary times nocturnal 19° 17'; his primary distance
from the horoscope 20° 57', it's horary times 11° 51’, to
the pole of the eleventh house 18°, the oblique ascension
of It’s opposition is 242° 38’; by subtracting from this
the oblique ascension of the eleventh house, there remains
it's distance from the ﬁfth house, 34° 3'. By the Rule
of Three, you have 14’s secondary distance 126 59',
which, subtracted from the primary, as both distances
are from the preceding house, leaves the arc of direction
21° 4’, which are is necessary, in order to know the
degree which the ‘Sun may arriveat;
I require the Sun's polar elevation. If its duplicate
nocturnal times gives the polar difference between the
ﬁrst and second houses ll°, the Sun’s primary distance
from the horoscope, 20° 57', will give 6° nearly, and
there remains the Sun’s polar elevation 38°, to which
the Sun’s oblique ascension is 284° 35'. To this I add
the arc pf direction 2l° 4', and I make the sum 305° 39’,
answering in the same table to 15° 20’ of Id”. In the
tables of crepusculcs for the pole 44°, I look for the
Sun’s primary distance from the horoscope, under 25°
of 1‘ , and I ﬁnd the Q in the crepusculine circle 13° 28’;
JM- ” -<~ ' WWK.
PRIMUM MOBILE. ' 101
under 15° 0’ of Pf, I take the Sun’s secondary distance
20° 46', always keeping the proportional part; where
fore again, by proportion, I say, As the Sun’s horary
Itimes 19° 7', is to his secondary distance from the horo
scope 20° 46', so is Jupiter's horary times, 11° 51' to
it’s secondary distance from the ﬁfth, 12° 52’, which,
being subtracted from the primary, leaves the true are
of direction, 21° 11’. To equate this, proceed as di
rected in Canon XVI, and it gives 18 years, at which
time he was made a Cardinal (vide the Geniture). If
the Sun is found in the obscure nocturnal place, ﬁrst
calculate the false direction, whether it be to the sextile,
quartile, or trine ray, as we said in the ﬁrst part of this
Canon ; secondly, ﬁnd the degree of the ecliptic to which
the Sun arrives by this direction; thirdly, let it be
required, if the Sun’s obscure arc gives his primary
distance from the 4th, what secondary distance of the
same will the obscure arc of that degree of the ecliptic
give, at which the Sun arrives by the aforesaid direction;
and when this secondary distance of Q from the
imum caali is known, if the Q be in the third or fourth
house, use this distance; but if it be in the second or
ﬁfth house, subtract the Sun’s duplicate nocturnal hora
ry times from this distance, and the remainder will be
the Sun’s, secondary distance from the third or ﬁfth
house; that is, when the direction is ﬁnished : then again
say, As the Sun’s nocturnal horary times is to his se
condary distance from the determinate house, so is the
promittor's horary times to its distance from that house
from which it projects its proposed ray to the other
,‘ JR» M ‘—
mxev-v~_.. __ r a» _- < — »
..-,, __
102 "mm: moms.
home, from ‘which you have taken the Sun’s secondary
distance, &c.: you must ﬁnish as usual. Let the ex
ample be in Cardinal Zachia: in this I want to calculate
the Sun's direction to the * of s , in the world, which
! has to the Q, in a proportional distance from the
third house, as the Sun is from the ﬁfth; the Sun's
horary times nocturnal are 14° 26', the oblique ascen
sion of the Sun’s opposition under the pole 18° of the
eleventh house is 189° 7', from which subtract the ob
lique ascension of the eleventh, which is 175° 22’, and
there remains the Sun’s distance from} the ﬁfth house,
13° 45; Mercury’s horary times nocturnal is 16°; his
oblique ascension, under the pole of the third house,
is 354° 13', wherefore there remains his primary distance
from the third 58°5l’. I therefore say, if the Sun’s
horary times, 14° 26’, give his distance from the ﬁfth
house, viz. 13° 45', what distance will a ’s' horary times
16° 0' give from third ? Answer, the secondary distance
of o is 15° 15', which, subtracted from the primary,
leaves the false are of direction 43° 36’, which is neces
sary to know the degree of the ecliptic, at which the Sun
may arrive in its revolution. The Sun’s pole, taken as
usual is 25°; the oblique ascension of the same in the
place of his opposition is 189° 35’; by adding to this
the feigned arc of direction, the sum is 233 11’, an
swering in the same table to 17° 30’ of "1, so that the
Sun must remain in 17° 80' of 8 . Now it remains to
know what is the Sun’s distance from the imum cmli, or
ﬁfth house under 17° 30' of u , according to the propor
tional parts of the Sun’s obscure arc, and also of 17° 30’
\
103
of U . The semi-nocturnal arc of the 0 is 5h 46', the
arc of the whole crcpusculine 1h 44'; the Sun’s obscure
are is, by subtraction, 4" 2'.
PRIMUM MOBILE.
h. m.
The semi-nocturnal arc of 17° 30’ of u_ is 4 50
The are of the whole crepusculine . . . 2 4
I The obscure arc of u , 17° 30’ . . . . 2 46
The Sun’s right ascension is 8°, from which subtract
the right ascension of the imam caeli, gives the 0’s pri
mary distance therefrom 42° 38’. Now say, if the Sun’s
obscure are 4. 2’ gives his primary distance from the
imum ca’li42° 38’, what will be the distance of the obscure
arc of 5 17° 30', which is 2" 46' ? And there arises the
secondary distance 29° 15‘ ; from which I subtract the
Q's duplicate horary times 28° 52', for the fourth house,
and there remains the 9’s distance from the ﬁfth 0° 23’.
Lastly, I demand, if the 0’s horary times 14° 26' give
his distance from the 5th, 0° 23', what will the horary
times of Q , 16° 0', give? Answer, i! ’s secondary dis
tance from the third, 0° 26'; which being subtracted
from the primary distance of the same, 58° 51', there
remains the true are of direction 58° 25’: more ex
amples you will see afterwards in their places. To the
other rays, quintile, sesqui-quadrate, and biquintile,
after you have calculated the false arc of direction to
the sextile, quartile, or trine, add or subtract the pro
portional parts, as we have said above, then see what
degree the Sun has arrived at, and in that his secon
\
104 rmmm monrm.
dary distance from the angles and houses; and what
distance he hath, the promittor always should he at the
same distance. See also, what I have said elsewhere in
an example given for illustration. To this Canon per
tains the mode of directing the Sun to the proper rays in
the world, for his place is to be taken under the primum.
mobile, as if it was another promittor different from the
Sun, always remaining’immoveable under the same polar
elevation; wherefore let all be done as has been said.
The Sun’s virtue is impressed on the primum mobile, un
der the determinate degree of the ecliptic, and in mundo
to a determinate polar elevation, and in either place their
virtue continues immoveable ; but that which is im
pressed in the primum. mobile, is moved round the world
with the same primum mobile, and is separated from the
mundane impression; and this remaining immoveable,
under its polar elevation, is moved to the more eastern
’ parts under the primum mobile, and so arrives at the rays
of the other virtue impressed under the primum mobile ,
this, in a direct motion, is the same as the promittor;
in aconverse, as a signiﬁcator; on the contrary, the
other, 8cc. ; the reasons of which distinction you may
see in the Celestial Philosophy. I
CANON XXXVII.
To direct any Signiﬁcator whatever, in a converse Motion,
to all the Aspects made in the H’ol'ld.
If you have rightly understood all the Canons in
this third part, this, likewise, before you will be found
very easy; for itcontains nothing more than what, we
PRIMUM mama. '105
have said in this third part, with this difference only,
that in a contrary manner, not the promittor, but the
signiﬁcator, remaining immoveable under the primate
mobile, is carried to the'place of position of the pro
mittor, or to their rays, which continue immoveable in a '
mundane situation; therefore the rules given, concern
ing the signiﬁcator, are to be understood of the promit
tor; and, on the contrary, those 'given relative to the
promittor, are to be understood of the signiﬁcator; for
which reason, there is an alteration in the order ofnum
bers of the Golden Rule ; so that, in the ﬁrst place, the
horary‘times of the promittor are to be taken; and, in
the second, its distance from the angles or houses 5 in
the third, the horary times of the signiﬁcator; and the
' fourth number will be the secondary distance of that
significator, which is to be compared with the pri~
mary distance of the same from the cardinals or houses,
in the manner before explained, relating to 'the promit
tor in Canon XIX. There are more examples iafter
wards, together with their eﬂ'ects. The angles' are
not directed in a converse motion, for they have none ta
"the preceding places. "
Canon XXXVIII.
To direct the Signiﬁcator to the West,- with the Ad.
dition and Subtraction of the Parts which is formed
from the int'eijac'ent Rays of'Sturs, according to the
Prec'epts ofPtolemy.’ I _ ,2. (a, a _
Bl ﬁle °bl‘q"e dietitians 5" ,the" stationsante
PPPOSite places to the horizon of the country, direct the~
Q
106
signiﬁcator to the west, not omitting his latitude, if it
has any; meanwhile, you must consider what stars or
mundane rays are intercepted between the signiﬁca
tor and the west, which you will know from the
direction of the stars or rays to the west; for those
that arrived ﬁrst, that is, by a less are of direction than
that of the signiﬁcator to the west, are interposited;
but those that follow by a greater are of direction are
not interjacent, and you must observe their are of di
rection, whether of the stars or rays to the west.
Then of every one of the planets, which either lie
.between or interpose the rays, take the conditionary
arc, the horary times to the hemisphere, wherein the
stars, and not the rays, may be; for it is thus, the
Inocturnal from the night, and diurnal from the day,
as Ptolemy informs us. Lastly, say, by the Golden
Rule, if the whole conditionary arc of a star give its
horary times, what will a star or rays are of direc
tion to the west give? Multiply the second and third,
and divide by the ﬁrst; add the result, if treating of
Lthe fortunate; but if of the unfortunate, subtract it
from the signiﬁcator’s arc of direction to the west, and
it will giVe the arc of direction, augmented or diminish
ed, according to Ptolemy, which is be equated in the
usual manner. ' Suppose the example be in Cardinal
Dominic Gymnascua, the Sun’s are of direction to the
'west is 75° 56’; at is interjacent, whose semi-diurnal
arc is 113° 24’; horary times 18° 53?, his arc of direc
tion to the west is 61° 28'.’ I then require ifthe whole
diurnal arc of 1;, 226° 48’, give his horary times 18' 53',
PM MUM MOBILE.
I
“‘4 and;
Piumru Momma. [61
hhwim'any Will the~ arc of direction 61° 28‘ give? The
answer is 5° 7C1" Venus interposes the Sextiie; the'
right ascension of 2 is 160°46'; which, subtracted from
the right-ascension of the medium call, makes the dis
tance of 2 from thence 0° 19"; which, subtracted from
the duplicate horary times of 2 33° 14', there remains
- the arc of direction-of 9 to. the ii- of the west 32° 55'.
If, therefore, the whole diurnal arc of 2 , which is
199° 36’, gives the horary times 16° 37', how many will
the arc-0f direction 32° 55' give? and I receive foren
swer, 2° 45'. Venus likewise interposes the quintile. I
compute the four horary times of l g , and they make
66° 28’, the ﬁfth part of which is l3° 28'; I Subtract this
from the *,S arc of direction, and there remains the arc
of direction of the quintileof 2 to the west 19° 27', from
which, in the fourth place, are bad 1° 38’, all which
make 9° 24’0f the fortunate to be added; so that the
Sun’s arc of direction to the west is augmented to
85° 20’. Mars interposes the n , whose arc of direction,
by the right ascensions of the medium cali, is 7° 57’ ; if,
therefore, the whole diurnal arc of Mars, which is
189° 48', gives his horary times 15° 15’, the direction's
arc 7° 57’ will give 0° 40'. ‘ Saturn interposes the ses
qui-quadrate ; his distance from the bum cmli is 18° 13',
which I subtractfrom his duplicate'horary times, which
are 35° 24', and there remains his distance from the
third hotlse, 17° 11'; to this I add his horary times,
1-If you divide the arc of direction to the west by 12, it gives
the proportional put required.
\08 mum! nouns.
and} make the are of direction of the ise'squi-quadrate
of I; to the west 34° 53’,, If, therefore,v the whole
noctumal are of I; 212°_~_l4’ .gives his horary times
17°42; the are of direction 34° 53' .will give 2° 531,
which, added to 3 ’s 0° 40’, make 3° 34' to be subtract»
edlfrom the Sun’s arc of direction, 85° 20’, and there
remains the Mean of direction 81° 46', calculated ae
eording to Ptole'my’s method, which_shews the years the
native has lived, as you may see afterwards in its pro
per place. That you may not look upon what we have
said as a dream, and therefore ,to be rejected, see the
example of Urban VIII. . In ,the Celestial Philosophy,
page 277, you may likewise do the same in the example
of‘Leonora Ursina, Duchess of Sfortia. But how large.
ly and differently, authors have spoken of this direction
of the signiﬁcator to the west, putting various QODSU'UC-g
tions on the words of Ptolemy, is known to every one;
See Carr-Ian inhis Commentaries, Maginus inthjs
Mobile, and the Use of Legal.Astrology in Physic, c._ viii,
where he delivers the sentiments of Naibod. Argolleea,
sures wholly this doctrine of Ptolemy’s, of directingbthe
moderatorsof Life to the. west, as vain and useless. ~But
Lsay, 'it is worthy of rei'mtrl-t,v and altogether conform;
able to truth ; because, then the rays and intermediate
stars of the malign only lessen the are of. direction to. the
west, and 'do. not-destroy life;- when, by._a right direey
tion, the moderator ofilife does not remain at the Same
time__with the malignant planet; for should this happen,
they kill, without any manner of doubt, as in Salviatis,
ancf‘sev'eral other eatamples. '
— -_ —n4_LL-l‘%_l
Paragon Months. 109
. o '- - "a
1' I - pl ' I I. I
-.0.). M1 .' I - l
_
_._,._,
PART} 1v.
__ 1'
—
- r
it .. '.' . J. '- .l'
or . I , _
Secondary Directions, (Progressions,
Ingresses,_,qnd Transits.
HAVING already calculated and obtained the num
ber of years of the primary 'direclionsf'ofthe signiﬁcators
to their promittors, and likewise taken the lords of the
Terms, all which Ptolemy, in,the last chapter of the
fourth ,book, calls the General ,Axbitlers of Times ;: for
this reason, because they prcordain the general times of
theirgﬂ'ects, which, as-its'motion'is slow, rand-its per
severance. long, discoverslits effects after a very long
' time; that is, after months and Yeairs. 'In order that
we may know,_.in this extent of time, vonrwhat 'parti
cultu- month and day the {effects appear, Ptolemy pro
pbsestth'ese‘motions'for observation, wherein, when the
'm'ajOrity- of the causes agree together, lthen, doubtless,
the'eﬂ'ectiisaccornplished, or most clearly-manifests it
:self,:' 'whenqetwe ought to conclude,- that though, with
our greatestcare iiid exact calculation, we have obtained
the true tinie,_tnqt only tothe year,.1httt ’als'o'fmonth
and hay: oftheprimary. directionfwe cannot argue
from ‘thenpcﬂ that theveEecthas happened on that very
.d_ay,.and therefore it;matter_a'not', though the priniary
direction has been evzn exceeded,“ not'quiie exactly,
lIO ntan uontfz.
accounted to a few minutes, as notwithstanding the par
'\icular times of their effects, may depend upon other
motions of the causesnow proposed ; for which reason
the times of these subsequent motions of the causes de
mand our greatest attention;'and we must not insist
upon the ﬁrst places which present themselves, but in
quire further, till’we ﬁnd where proof may be had, viz.
by the method we are now going to speak of.
\r \
CANON XXXIX.
OF SECONDARY DIRECTION
Under this name, I understand the motion of the
celestial causes which are made on the days succeeding
the nativity, according as they are marked in the
Ephemeris; for the aspects to the luminaries and am
gles, which happen on those days, have their effects
from every day to every year; so that the ﬁrst day may
be referred to the. ﬁrst year, as a measure to the mensu
rate; the second to the second, &c. for which rea- '
son we must observe, when the luminaries are posited
in any aspect of the .stars; for if with the fortunes,
(they conduce tothappiness and good health; if with the
unfortunate, and from an hostile ray or parallel of de
clination, they portend misery and distress in those
years which depend on those days these aspects happen
on. But, without doubt, these effects are remarki—
hlc, if at that time there are primary directions of the
same kind and nature; and, moreover, from such mor
tions originate the climactical, or, more properly, criti—
cal years; for, on the days the I) is posited in the 6 ,
U, 01' 8,; to and with the. place of the nativity, she
111
makes the years which depend on those days, obnoxious
to dangers and inﬁrmities. But, if at that time any
unfortunate primary direction of the vital prorogator is
powerful, life may be said to be in danger, and, parti
cularly, if in the secondary direction, the Moon is
aﬂlictui by the malignant planets. But, , if the Sun is
so too, the danger is still greater. Lastly, if the Prif
mary direction is unfortunate, when the ingress and
transit agree, death is inevitable. See the examples in
the Exposition of the Nativities.
PRIMUM MOBILE-l.
CANON XL.
OF PROGRESSIONS. '
That progressions, or, if we should say, equal pro
cesses, taken as usual, according to the general opinion
and custom hitherto received, are ﬁctions, impossible,
and contrary to nature, has been sufﬁcientiy proved in
my Celestial Philosophy. The method which you are
to take as natural, we now explain and prove in every
one of the future examples. Know, therefore, that
progressions are derived from embolismical lunations
succeeding the nativity, every one of which are formed
in the space of twenty-nine days nearly, in which'time
the Moon separates from her 6 , with the Sun forming
the 0 and 8 , and returns to a o and 6 again, in
which circuit she passes over almost thirteen signs, and
the Sun one sign.
Progressions, if we may give our judgment, originate
from these motions of the luminaries ; for the ﬁrst luna
tion succeeding the nativity, or the 1) 's circuit, bounds
the progression of the ﬁrst year of the native; the se-v
.- -_ . , -
~ - . -q-\~"
.-—_ __ -
n'
>I
\I
I
'I'I'w‘
.
J
v
v
.
v'tmw
Tat-.3
i’a
.
_=-
:
awybgcemssaseﬂ
_'_',af.'.'.w¢w
112 rnmnM Moms.
con'd, the progression of the second year; the third, of
the third, 8m. in such a manner, however, that the
ﬁrst part of the l) ’s circuit may measure or bound the
ﬁrst part of the year; the middle, the middle; the last,
the last, 8w.
To calculate the progressions, and know with case
where they will arrive at ;\ so many embolismical lu
nations succeeding the nativity, must be computed, as
there are years which have elapsed of the age of the
native, by always placing the Moon in that appearance
'and distance from the Sun she is at in the nativity.
Lastly, for every month to the Moon’s place, there
must be added 32° 30', which are the twelfth part
of one lunation; but if you desire to obtain a ready
calculation of the progressions for several years, take
notice that the 1) does not ﬁnish the twelve lunations
in one whole year, but in eleven days less; having,
therefore, the Moon’s distance from the gun in the
nativity, look for this eleventh day before the end of
the ﬁrst year after the nativity ; and when you have found
it, then the progression of twelve years are completed;
in like manner, twenty-two days before the end of the
second year after the nativity, the progression of twenty
fonr years are completed, 8w. Thence proceed from
every lunation to every year 'of the native’s age, and
from every one of the signs with 32° 30' of the D ’5 mo
tion to every month; and whenever the luminaries are
Well affected, as well in the progressions as towards the
places of the favourable planets of the nativity, they
_induce to happiness; and on the contrary, 8rc. See
examples in every one of the nativities following.“ '
\
PRIMUM aroma. 113
CANON XLI.
0F INGRESSES.
Of these we have said some are active, some passive.
Ac'rrvn ingresses are the familiarities of active stars,
acquired by an universal daily motion, with the places of
the primary and secondary directions and processes of
the significators. PASSIVE are the familiarities of the
universal prorogators in the whole world with the active
stars of the secondary directions and processes. Under
the name of ACTIVE stars, we mean whatever hath
the quality of acting, and are usually posited in the pro
mittor’s place, as b, 11., 6, 9, Q ; and the Q and
It also, when they assume the nature of any of the
afore-mentioned; and such ingresses, whether of the
benign to the places of the motions of the signiﬁcators,
or of any of the signiﬁcators to the places of the mo
tions of the benign; that is, both active and passive
are good, butof the malign, in the same manner, are
hurtful, as will be observed in the following examples.
Canon XLII. ,
0 F TRA NS I TS.
Some of these, also, are active, some passive; the
active are the familiarities of active stars acquired by an
universal dain motion with the prorogators of the nati
vity ; that is, with their immoveable places. Passive
Transits are the familiarities of any of the signiﬁcators
in the world with the active stars of the nativity; that
is, with their immoveable places, according to their
immobility, of which we have frequently mentioned;
R
H4 PMMUM aroma.
'so that in this, ingresses differ from transits; that in
gresses respect the places of the moveable motions;~
but transits, the ﬁxed places of the nativity: But the
most of all to be observed, are the lunations in the
daily motions, whether it be 6, D, or 8 of the D,
with the 0 upon the obnoxious places; for when the
subject of the direction is on the progress to happi
ness, if the lunations are good, by reason of the aspects
of fortunate stars, they greatly conduce to the procuring
of happiness in their effects; but if, on the contrary,
we are speaking of the directions and process to the un
fortunate planets, and those lunations are unfortunate,
on account of the hostile rays there of the malignant
stars, the native must be supposed to be in very great
danger; and, doubtless, there is great reason to fear it,
from the unhappy event of the things signified. Hence
it is evident, that promotions to dignity very frequently
happen in lunations wherein the luminaries are sur
rounded by the beneﬁcs. On the contrary, tribulations,
diseases, murders, 8m. in lunations wherein the lumi
narics' are besieged by the unfavourable planets : and this
is found never to fail.
And this is the true doctrine of Ptolemy, and the
whole of this most noble Science. ~ ,
But let us begin our observations on the examples
which we have subjoined to verify things, and likewise
to elucidate the Canons.
ll
THIRTY
ﬁemarkahle ﬁatihitiw,
T0, rnovn THE
TRUTH 0F THINGS BY EXAMPLE,
AND I LLUSTRATE THE
JMIETHUD'
0F
¢umputatiun hp the ﬁaunns.
TU TIHIE READER.
Tunas is nothing by which man'
ever arrived at a more perfect knowledge
of the secrets of nature, than. by the im
mediate eﬁ‘ects of things, that is, by the ex
perience which the understanding discovers '
to us; for from these, it is evident, that
they who ﬁrst directed their studies to
philosophy, have opened a way to discover
secrets replete with wonder.
And, indeed, reason, for its excellence,
is better than example; as is the immortal
soul, whose work it is, than that of corpo
real sense: yet, in a consequential order,
this has the precedence, and is, as it were,
the door and way to that understanding, to
which there is not the least access, unless
transmitted through the senses. Further,
118 T0 'rnz neanna.
whatever, by the light of reason, the mind
of man may either comprehend or invent,
if experience does not make it plain, is
justly and deservedly condemned and re
jected as false. Of the power of the Stars,
and their manner ‘of acting upon those in~
ferior elementary and compound bodies,
beginning from the ﬁrst causes, properties,
passions, motions, and other active qua
lities, being guided by reason in all and
each of them, from the axioms of the most
eminent men in physic and mathematics, I
have sufﬁciently treated in my Celestial Philo
sophy; and from thence, by way of theory,
I have transferred hither a few theses the
most concise. But, as there are some who
refuse to follow reason and the most en
lightened authors for their guides, I was
unwilling to make any distinction between
this part of philosophy and experience;
that they who will listen to reason and the ‘
understanding, might, by the help of the
senses, and, to use the expression, with
their hands, attain to and comprehend the
method I have taken; for which reason, it -
TO 'rnn READER. 119
seemed good to me, in this place, to suhjoin
thirty Nativities of the most famous men,
truly-worthy of admiration; and, that no
_one might condemn them, either as false or
selected, in preference to any casually taken,
to suit my purpose, I have extracted them
from the most, approved authors, and'such‘
only, wherein not the horoscope, which
may, with a small variation of time, be
very easily adapted to the aspects of the
stars, but the luminaries become the mo
derators of life; which, as they alWays con
tinue in the same place in the Zodiac, not
withstanding the times_of the nativities are
remote, I thought proper to dispose these
with the calculations of the aspects and
directions, in the most convenient order.
Now, therefore, my very courteous reader,
if you look for any power in, or true and
natural knowledge from, the stars, in any
of these examples, when, from the natural
effects contained 'in them, you ﬁnd any
calculations for directions more agreeable to
time and nature, be so kind \as to publile
120 TO THE READER:
them, and point out my errors ;v and, by so
doing, you will oblige me greatly, as, in
every thing, I-desire nothing but plain and
simple truth; but if, after all, you cannot
ﬁnd any, confess, ingenuously, that my
opinion concerning this Celestial Science is
right, my mode of calculation. true, and
the method universal ; and hesitate no longer
in conﬁrming it to be so. But, in these
examples, it is to be observed :- v V
> 1. That the luminaries preside over sub
jected things, not only by that one motion
of direction, which is made in the Zodiac
according to the succession of the signs,
agreeable to the method usually followed
by all professors, ‘ but by both, viz. the
right and converse.
2. That the same familiaiities, by the
same method of calculating, may be found in
more of the like examples, when ulledged as
proofs, is the greatest evidence of the truth
of things; for it might be argued, that they
happened to agree only in one example.
T0 'run READER. ' l2!
34'That my directions are conformable to
the nature of things; as, for example, I
do not take the dignities from the horo
scope, but from the Sun and medium earli,w
according to Ptolemy and others.
4. I have not taken remarkable eﬁ‘ects
from the ﬁxed stars, as many do (and,
truly, without foundation), but from the
erratics; though the ﬁxed stars dospecify
and afford some little assistance to the
power of the erratics.
5. In all these examples, the measure I
have found forethe arc of direction corres
ponds with the years of the age.
6. I have not varied the time of the na
tivities to make the directions agree with
my calculations; but if, in any example, I
have made a little alteration, it is very
small, and scarce makes any difference in
the arc of direction of the luminaries, whe
ther direct or converse, except only in the
mundane parallels“. ‘ However, from this
S
122 To me- annnnn.
small alteration 'it‘mayv be inferred, - that
either on that account the time is reduced
to the true one, or,“ least, that the'di--v
re'ctions of the parallels in the world were
not far distant, and might, notwithstand
ing, have been ‘of' very good use, though
there were no change of time in the nati
vity; for every.direction' causes' an alteraq
tion in bodies; but thefull eﬂ‘éct plainly
appears, by means 0f the powerful direc
tions which arrive ﬁrst, and .the subsequent
assist more or less, according to the prox
imity of the application, or their strength
and power are‘greater or less: but no credit
is to be given to- the time of those nativi
ties, in which authors have adopted the
horoscope for the giver of life, where either
of the luminaries ought to have'b'een taken;
for we ,may reasdnably conclude, that,
when the said authors have riot found
their directions of that luminary to which,
undoubtedly, belonged the power; of life,
to, agree with, the effects, 'they have made
a considerable alteration in the given time
of the nativity, in'order that they 'might
TO ‘ run names: 123 '
bring dbwmthehomscope' to. any aspect of'
the planets; loan aﬁirrn what iI'have said
to. be true, for! intmy youth I saw several na-t
tivities, which were afterwards published by
the authors, w'herein was a visible alteration
in the time, andithe reason why was, that:
they might answer theiabove'end;
- ...' ' :..|‘j :.-
7. In these eit'amples'you Will‘plainly'sce,
thatI have-alwaysitaken the moderator of
life by the rules of Ptolemy ; as in the day,
ﬁrst the Sun, if: he is found in an 'apheti'cal
place, then the Moon, 8th ; bat in the night,
ﬁrst the Moon, '8z‘c.- ' ' ' '
8'. You are ftoiobserv'e, that if either of
the luminaries, being the significath or life,
is found in a nativity, with an h'ostile ray in_
the zodiac, by the application of any ma
lignant planet strong in power, the same is
weak, for its'vi'rtues are but s'mall,‘ias a pro
rogator in the zodiac, but stronger through
the other smotib‘ns'iand aspects, for then
‘theiinoderaitidh'Tiii "the" zo‘diae's'eems t‘o-i‘be,
in a' manner, s'epara‘ted'; and i-n'the'same
‘i'
': ____\ _>__ _
124 To run names.
manner ought we to reason in the other mo;
tibns; 'for if, lastly, accordingto all the
motions, and every species 0f aspect, the
signiﬁcator of life is aspected by the 'rays
of the unfortunate planets, the native, ac
cording to’Ptolemy, will not survive,
especially if the fortunate afford no as
sistance, 8cc. yet each direction must al
waysbe consulted and calculated, agreeably
to the two kinds of familiarities;
I 9. You may know that those nativities are
stronger, when either of the luminaries he
-come the signiﬁcath of life, by reason of
the duplicate motion of the prorogation,
which does not happen when the horoscope
of the country is the giver of life, for it;
only performs in a right; motion, and not
converse.
‘ ’\
Y 10. You-are not: to observe what is ge
nerally alledged by professors, respecting
,the satellites of the luminaries for dignities ;
viz. that the satellites are those planets which
are found within 30° on either side towards
To 'r'nn manna. 125
the luminaries; but that a satellite is any
kind of aspect of the stars to the luminaries
of what kind soever; which, if it be made
by application, its power extends inwardly
over the whole orb of light of the aspecting
planet, and, the more so, as the proximity is
greater, but by separation it is not so. This
' doctrine may be seen in several chapters of
Ptolemy; for, an aspecting star inﬂuences
the signiﬁcator, and disposes him to produce
‘eﬂ'eets co-natural to him, by a subsequent
direction. But a star of no aspect does
not predispose the signiﬁcator, and pro- _
duces very little or no effect of its nature
by a subsequent direction ; this is the true
doctrine of the stars. '
11. That in these examples, as to the.
time of death, I have observed the most
powerful directions of them all, and after
'wards I give a reason why the antece
dents that are past are not anaretical; from
which ,it is evident, that the directions,
whereof I. now give the calculations, were
the true anaretic causes.
l26 'ro mn- READER.
12. There is no truth in What is commonly
alledged by sorne ; viz. that as I invented the
mundane aspects, it is no wonder if any as
pect may agree with the times of the eﬁ'ects '
in those examples, as Well the familiarities in
mundo‘among the stars as to the'angles';
but I- afterwards 1rejected the aspects in
the zodiac,'and also the antiscions to the
angles. I do not direct the signiﬁcators to
the cusps of the houses, nor to the 8, 8,.
or to the ﬁxed stars, as having of them
selves a power to kill. I do not direct the
planets b, 14, 8‘, 2, it, as if they we'resig
niﬁcators, which is the practice of several
professors. Maginus has described the rays
in the equator; others, besides the rays,
' which the ingenious Kepler thought to be
efﬁcacious, 'add the semi-sextile‘and sesqui
quadrate. Wherefore, if you carefully ob
serve, you. will doubtless perceive I have
produced less aspects than other authors.
13. Ifyou are desirous to see of what im
portance the secondary directions are, to
discern the particular times of effects, and
Maml“ —“ ““W
“M
'ro THE ansmza. 1271
also the progressions, I have, calculated the,
ingresses and transits, both active and pas-;
sive ; but the equal processes, according. to.
the usual and general way, how idle and,
empty in effect they are, I will leave to
yourself to consider, as I would not spend
time to no purpose to calculate them.,
14-. The revolution, as taught by some, I
have notseen, though in reality they may,
possess some ,virtue, but only according to
the constitution of the stars to the. places
of the prorogators of the nativity, and their
places ofdirection, bet no farther, as _Ptole~
my was of, opinion, and hrieﬂy-,.expresses
himself in his Chapter of Li_fe.._ ' “Those
“ who are afﬂicted, both ,in'ithe places and
“a conclusions of the years, byithe revolution
“ of the stars infecting the principal, places,
“have reason to expect certain death ;’,-’
therefore, let any one, if he pleases, ob
serve the return of the years, but at the
same time, let him not place, so great a value
on them, as some authors uSually do; who,
from the constitution of the stars, judge 0f
HS we run naannn.
the Sun’s return in the same manner as of
the nativity; so that they are not afraid to
dissent from the same, nor even from the
directions.
15. And note, that when I speak of dig~
nities and promotions, I am to be understood
in a natural way, as I have made mention
of in the Celestial Philosophy, and in such
a manner, that men may endeavour to ren
der themselves capable and Worthy of men
tal accomplishments, as well as of the other
virtues, and not by any means that those
who are at 'liberty to act as they please
should be compelled to, and, as it were,
pushed upon, advancement: for I am
wholly of opinion, that every man is the
author of his own fortune, next, however,
to the divine decree, according to that of
the prophet,
“ In manibus tuis sortes mu."
“ My lot is in thine hand.”
Lastly, if, in the calculations of the direc
'tions, you ﬁnd any difference of minutes
To run manna: 129
from the time of the eﬁ'ects (this, how
ever, I am certain, will always be very
small), remember, ﬁrst, that the places of
the stars are not perfectly known to us;
and then in the producing of effects, several
motions of the stars concur to prevent a.
true calculation; as the secondary direc
tions, the process, ingress, transit, lunation,
&C. which may cause the effect either to
precede or follow the true calculation.
n
O
h
u
\
‘ 0
O
I
I
l l
s
l
.
I
I
\
‘
-
I
O
I
I I .
.
Q
I -
.
o
-
n
I
u - . i
' D
-
I ' .
u
.
Q
.
‘ \
a
. I
-
Q
¢
. F’—
_ nu- ~‘
_ - -~__/'
‘_ I“ _ ~M” - -'
__ “M
THIRTY
itemarkahle ﬁatiht'ties;
I SHALL begin, by drawing my eitamples from the
most principal families in Europe; and in them, by?
way of conciseness, only regard important accidents.
EXAMPLE I.
._I 0-11 _ I m:
\
a
"’0
p) C/ESAR 6p 1
66', *6 CHARLES v. 9‘: ,
“'1 Emperor ofGermany. 0 J
a BORN ‘_ é,
a \ February 23, 1500, 9,
4d,, 15 h. 39m. P. M. 5 'k
\ m a
W @710 0, LATITUD! 52°. /
l32 rauwm MOBILE.
LATITUDE. DECLIKATIOKS
r, . 2° 0' s. 15° 13' N.
u 0 50 s. 9 81 s.
3‘ 0 53 N. 19 52 N.
o o o s a s.
9 1 a S. 2 18 s.
y a o N. 1 51 s.
1) . 2 4 s. 25 24. s.
HE lived ﬁfty-eight years and seven months, nearly ;
and died on the 2lst of September, 1558, at which
time'the D, who is moderator of life, came, by right
direction, to her own 0 in the Zodiac, are 55°, and
also to her own in in Mundo, are 55° 33’, and to
the 8 of 1;, by converse direction, are 52° 58'
The Moon’s oblique ascension to her pole 52°, is
314° 52'. In W' 6° 45'; the Moon’s latitude is 4° 32'
S.; the oblique ascension of that place by longitude
and latitude is 9" 52’ ; from which subtract the Moon’s
oblique ascension, adding, ﬁrst, the integer circle 360°,
and there remains the arc of direction of the D to
her own E1 in the Zodiac 55°.
'Thc D to her own 0 in the world (by which direc
tion both the prorogatory virtues of life are injured, viz.
that in the primum mobile, and that which is impressed
in the world; for THIS is directed by a direct motion,
and THAT by‘a converse) is thus wrought z—The D's
semi-nocturnal arc is 127° 27’, her distance from the
horoscope is 4° 52', D’s semi-diurnal are is 52° 33',
from which, for the fourth number, arises the Moon's
Secondary distance from the medium cceli 2° 0' : This
Pamrm MOBILE. > T33
subtracted from the primary, which is 57° 33', there
remains the arc of direction 55° 33'.
To the 8 of h, by converse motion, the distance
of I; from the imum 0011' is 5' 43', for his right ascen
sion is 450 43'; the pole’s elevation of the ﬁfth and
eleventh is 24", the semi-nocturnal arc of T; is 69° 37',
the third part thereof 23° 13’, which gives the pole’s
elevation of I; nearly 6° 5 to this pole the oblique
ascension of the opposite place of I; is 227° 21', and
the D ’s oblique ascension there is 280° 19’; from which
- subtracting that of the opposition of b , leaves the arc
of direction 52° 58’. For the equation, to take the
years, I add this are 52° 58' to the 0’s right ascension,
which is 345° 44', and I make the sum 38° 42', an
stvering to 11° 10‘ of a, at which the sun, from the
day and hour of the nativity, arrives in 58 days, which
denotes so many years; but it must be observed, that
the converse directions did not wait for the other two
by a right motion, as by it the D in the nativity, ap
plied'to the o of the infortunes in the world, and to
the sesqui-quadrate of 3‘ in the zodiac; sb that the
signiﬁcator of life appeared stronger and more fortunate
by a converse motion: for though the D was favoured
by the at of ‘14 in the zodiac, the infortunes_ prevailed,
as being more numerous and in the angles.
In the 4lst year of his age, when, after a series of
successes, Fortune turned her back upon him; he suf
fered a very great loss of his ﬂeet and army, by a tem
pest near the coast of Africa: the D arrived at the pa
rallel of 5* in the world, whilst both, by a converse
motion of the primum mobile, were in rapt motion
1
134 Pamuu menus.
round the world, for they happened to be posited in
equally proportional distances from the horoscope. The
D’s semi-diumal arc is 52° 33', the semi-diurnal arc
of 3’s 8 is 62° 27', and their sum is 115° 0’; there
fore, as the sum of'the semi-diurnal arcs 115° 0’ is to
the 15’s semi-diurnal are 52° 33’, so is the difference be
tween 8’s 3 and the D in right ascension 45° 25' (for
the right ascension of 3‘ ’s 8 is 232° 3’, and the right
ascension of the 1) 277° 28’), to the D ’s secondary
distance from the medium cmli 20° 45’, 'which, sub
tracted from the primary, which is 57° 28’, leaves the
arc of direction 36° 43’, which, being equated in the
usual way, gives 41 years.
In his 19th year, when he was chosen emperor, the
i) had arrived at the cusp of the twelfth, and 2 at the
second ; therefore the medium 00215 was directed to the
it of the D and A of 9 , and they were both in parallel
by rapt motion: the D' also came to the as of 2 in zo
diac, near 26° W, and to the quintile in the world by
converse motion. But the most importantwas, the 0 to
parallel of it in the zodiac, near 25° of qr, where he ac
quires the same declination as 1!. ; the 9’s crepuscular
arc is 1h 58', his semi-nocturnal are 6" 32', from which
subtract the crepusculine arc, and his'obscure arc is 4‘
34‘. The crepusculine are of sr 25° is 2" 18‘, its'semi
, nocturnal arc is 5h 9', and the obscure arc is 2h 51'. The
Q ’5 distance from the immn 00215 is 54° 16' ; wherefore, as
the 0’s obscure arc 4h 34’ is to his distance 54° 16', so is
the obscure arc of25 ‘Y‘ 2" 51’ to its secondary distance 32°
22’ ; from- which, subtracting the primery distance of m
25°, there remains the are of direction 17" 31’, which
\L-P-Jp-h‘J— _
PRIMUM moms. 135
being equated, gives 19 years. For 58 years and 7
months nearly, I thus calculate the secondary direc
tions. To the day and hour of the, nativity Iadd 58
days for the same number of years, and 14 hours for
the 7 months, and I come to the 22d day of'April of the
same year 1500, with 5h 39‘, P. M., and in the second
ary directions the planets are in the following position:
o B-l u a lslll»
Diffs- u~»~sr X “LE-lit” 11
Long. 11.36 .94.“ sass 29.19 foresaw ~93
is. ,_ is,rsajrs;a
When the D was in the 4th degree of x, lat. 5°. South,
by which she had the declination 14° 44’ ; the same with
I), as well there as in the nativity; and lastly, on the
day of death, wherein 6‘_ was in the 4th degree of m,
in 8, (that is partile) to this place of this D . The Q,
in 'the secondary direction, on the 22d day of April, was
in 12° of a, in the parallel of b’s'decli'nation there
both from the nativity and at death. The 0, on the
day of death, from the 8 , entered the place of the di.
rection of the D ’s D in the zodiac; and, two days be
fore he died, there happened to be a lunation of the D ’s
D with the G) in those obnoxious places. On the clay
of his death, the Moon was in the last degree of V),
with South latitude, whereby she was posited in the same
parallelof declination a was in, on the 22d day ofApril,
of the secondary direction; therefore, there was a mu
,__.____ .
136 rmmm MOMLE.
t‘ual permutation of aspect between the Moon and Mars,
viz. an active and passive ingress to these motions on
the day of death; and is an admirable proof of the
calculation being exactly true. The places of the pla
nets, on the day he died, which was the 21st of Sep
tember 1558, are as follow:
O D b 11 6‘ 2 i! 9
Def. e w s z: ma 51 ‘2 er
0
Lon. 1.31 29.29- 24.31 2. 4 428 29.25 11.23 19.20
S. S. S. N. N.
Lat. £55 2.34 0.510.2t 0.0 0.42
The manner I look for the process for the same year
is thus: For full 48 years, 48 embolismie lunations are
ﬁnished, in four years following the nativity, yet less
than that by 44 days, that is, 11 x 4, for we have said
' in its Canon, that the Moon ﬁnisheth 12 embolismic
lunations in 11 days less than a whole year ; wherefore,
from the 23d February, 1504, subtracting 44 days, we go
back to the 10th January, when the Moon, from the 22d
degree of m, is posited in the same distance from the Sun
which she hath in the nativity, viz. of 68° ; and then
the process is ﬁnished for full 48 years; then, for the
other ten years, passing over the other 10 embolismic
lunations, Icome to the 31st of October of the same
year, 1504, when the Moon was in 10 degrees of "12,
and the Sun in 18 degrees of 111,. That we may pre
7 serve their distance from each other at the nativity for
the six remaining months, and 27 days, i. e. to the day
"mum MODEL 137
of his death, I add to this place of the Moon six signs ‘
and 15 degrees for the six months, and 29° 30' for: the.
27 days, and I come to 24° 30’ (if ‘7', wherein'the Mpon
isposited on the 18th of November. In the progi'es;
sions, the planets are thus posited : t . .
o n b u a 2 was a
mfg. r ‘r‘ a a r 1 r x"
o __ ..
Lon. 6.3 24.30 33016-151415 15.40 22.44 10.39
N. N. N. s. N. s. "fl ‘
Lat. 0.11 0.40 0.2 0.9 0.40 9‘1"”
T’ 3 t f ' .-':_s.f.' .~
i" *‘eiulonl‘ ~ .nr'u
. .r >
The Sun was in six degrees of 1‘ ,‘ which t 5“ entered
by a quadrate ray, on the day of death : the Moon had
passed the place of her direction in the zodiac ; but when
she was arrived at 25 degrees of ‘r, she struck upon,
by ingress, (on the day of death) the parallel of 8's de~
elination, and entered on the fatal day from, the' CI ;
from the 24th degree of W, this place of her progression ;
the Mobn also applied in the progression to the D of I; .
The most noble satellite in this Nativity is to the Moon
the conditionary luminary, from the * of 74., and from
the quintile of Q . To the medium caeli, from u and the
Sun the A, from g the biquintile. To the 0, from
u and y by presence, from T; and J the Sextile.
\
It is presumed that the following incidents of the life of this ex—
traordinary mun will not be unacceptable to the intelligent reader,
as they may serve to illustrate the eﬂ’eets of Celestial Inﬂux, by
comparing the effects with the cause which produced them. At
U
138 anmr monrut.
the age of 14, he had the government of the Netherlands given him;
at 16 he was crowned King of Spain; at 19 he was elected .Empe
ror, and crowned the follmving year at Air la Chapelle. He had
great wars with Francis the First King of France, whom he tool:
prisoner at the battle of Pavie, in the year 1525, and sent him to
Madrid; he likewise seized Rome, and besieged the Pope in his
castle there, and annexed the Dutchy of Milan to his house for
ever. In 1532, at a diet then held at Ratishim, the Protestant
confession of faith was exhibited, and publicly read before him;
some years after which he enter-‘ed into wars with tho-Protestants,
and tool: .lohn Frederick, Elector of Saxony, prisoner in 1545 ; and
thereupon transferred the'Elecmral dignity from him to Maurice,
Duke of Saxony. Healso caused Philip,-Landgrave of Hesse, to be
putinto custody; but, in the end, concluded the Peace of Passaw,~
in the year 1559.; three years after which, he abdicated the govern
~meut, and retired to a cloister, in St. Justus‘s monastery in Spain,
where he died in 1558. He married Isabel, the daughter of Ema
nuel, King br Portugal, by whom ~he had issue, one son and two
daughters; besides whom he had one natural daughter, named
Margaret, by Mademoiselle do Plumbes, which daughter was mar
lied to Alexander de Medicis, Duke of Urbiu; and, after his de
cease, to Octavia. Iarnesec, Duke of Parma. He had also a nu
tural son by Mademoiselle dc Blombcrg, viz. the renowned Don
John of Austria.
f'nmtm MOBILE. - 189
\
EXAMPLE n.
FRANCIS I.
King qf France.
'J"
BORN
September 12, 1494-,
10 h. 877m. P. M.
’1“,
LA nun: 48°.
a
LATITUDES. DECLINATIONS.
1, . 2Q 10' s. 9o 45' s.
3 . o 24 N. 14 12 N.
y . . 2 o s. ‘ 9 22's.
1) 2 so N. 10 2 s.
._ ,A -_-_-__..._- -'
140 PRIMUM Monica.
THIS King, inwa stoptl epgagement with a large
body of the enemy, at the riVer‘Po, in Italy, suffered a
very great overthrow, his general and valiant armies being
all slain, and he himself wounded and taken prisoner by
the soldiers of the Emperor Charles V. This was in'the _
year 1525, on the 24th of February, when he was 30
years and ﬁve months old ; at which time the Sun, who
is the signiﬁcator of glory, liberty, and power, came, by
a right direction, to the mundane parallel of 1; , and
also to the parallel declination of 3‘ ; and, by a converse
motion, was posited as near as possible to the Moon’s
8 , and mundane parallel of T; . ‘
To'the parallel of the declin‘ation of Mars, the cal
culation is as follows; and \it corresponds with the ,
time of the direction, When"the Sun arrives at 6° of
m, where he obtains the dehliiiation 13° 34', and thc
declination of Mars 14° 12', for this reason, either be
cause the truc place of Mars is wanting a few minutes,
which made the declination ofMars lesser; or, as the lu- 5
minarics, by reason of the magnitude, of their bodies,
begin to touch at a parallel of' their declination, befotc
they arrive at it by the centre of their bodies ; or, lastly, '
that they have already reached the times of the other; di—J
rections : be it as it will, the Sun was conjoined, as near
as could be, to the declination of d‘ ; it might be, like
wise, that the secondary directions and powerful ingresses
may have made the etl'ect appear a little befo're'the‘ exact
application of the primary direction. ._. v _
I , I
v I . - \
anwsx momma. M!
',"-:~'\.._ 7 “J. ..
. .A "A -- --- . i - 7 1 "-J .'- l
k ' 7 2,. -‘ Su'n. _ a. I I" . .‘I
The semi-nocturnalmcis. . . . . '_ 5h ' 57'
‘Creypseirline arc . ._ . . . . . l
Obscure arc . . . . . 4 7 :
. Right; ascerrsion r-. . . . . ~_. . 178° 46‘
- Distance frommheimum cali . . - _. 20- 58
'1‘
n
. Ofthc 6rh degree of m.
The semi-nocturnal arc is 7
Crepuscoiiric arc . . . '. . . I . 'l ,
Obscure arc . . . . . . . . 5 , 12
Rightiascension . . . . . . 21391440
Primary distance from the'imum cmli 55 Q2 _, .
wherefore, as Q’s obscure are .1 . r.‘ _ ' 4h -7.’ ";
i '.- - is to his dist. from'the 4th ,j 20° 58" .
r r ' so is.thc obscurearc of m 6° . 5h '12’
to its secondary distance . ; 26‘" 29’ _~
which being subtracted from the primary, leaves them:
of direction 29“ 23’,‘~.-- ' ' -- _
The Sun's direction rothe parallel of I; in‘ AUundo,_-hy
direcymotbn is thus calculated. ' V - ';
v‘As the 0’s semi-nocturnal are, 5“ 57', is to it§ dis;
(lancofnom, the imam ccgli, 26‘? 29' 1(which the Sun 1;.
quires after the direction is'ﬁnished, _at which time, as
we have'said, ,he lusrrates the sixghdegrce of Scorpio),
so is b ’is’ semi-diurnal are, 5" l6’, to his secondary disi
zance fromfthe medium trek 23° 47', which added to he
primarys" (because 5' passes from 1hr: ascendant' part of
heayen'm thc_descendant), which is 4° 56’, give the arc
of direction. 28° -43’ 5 ro‘equate which I add, to it the 0’s
4d._ ._ _-~__-M'
14'2 ramuru Monies.
right ascension, and it makes 207° 29' = 29° 30' a, to
which the 0, from the day and hour of nativity, arrives
in 31 days, answering to so many years.
The next is the 0 to the parallel of b in Mundo,
converse direction.
Thus wrought, as 5’s semi-diurnal are, 5" 16’, is to
his distance from the medium 0an 4° 56', so is the 0’s
semi-nocturnal are 5" 57' to the 0's secondary distance
from the 4th, 5° 35', which, added to the primary
20° 58', makes the arc of direction 26° 33’, so that this
direction had preceded two years and some months
before. ' ’
It is easy to calculate the 0’s converse direction to
the 8 of the D , whereby he applied also to the 6 of .3 :
the D ’s declination is 10° 2’, answering to x 4° in the
ecliptic, whose horary times, 13° 7', doubled, are 26° 14’,
the D ’5 right ascension is 328° 50’, which subtracted from
the right ascension of the medium cali, leaves the D ’5
distance 8° 58' : the polar elevation of the 9th house is
21°; therefore, As the double horary times of D , 26° 14';
is to the polar elevation of the 9th house 21° 0’, so is
the I) ’5 distance from medium cazli 8° 58' to the b’s
pole 7° 0’, under which the oblique ascension ‘of the
1) 's 8 is 147° 36’, that of the 0 178° 42', 'from which
subtracting that of the 1), leaves the are of direction
31° 6', so that the 0 and 1) were as nearly opposite as
possible. 1
I look for the secondary directions thus : To the day
and hour of the nativity I add 30 days and 10 hours,
for the 30 years and 5 months, and I come to the 12th
of October, with ‘20“ 26’ P. M. when the Q was in a:
-. PmMUM MOBILE. MS
29°, in exact parallel of b ’s declination, who- was in
X 7°, with latitude 2° 10’ South, 5‘ had arrived at 11];
11°, to wit, the opposition of the medium cmli of the
nativity, and the D in qr 8 degrees. On the 22d of
February, 1525, there happened a remarkable new 1) ,
in X 13°, in which the three superiors, by an exact cal
culation, had the same declination, and, for this reason,
were in parallel, and the luminaries applied to their de
clination nearly. These aspects of the stars usually are
the causes of very grievous wars, and this new » was
celebrated upon 5 of his nativity, and then I; applied to
the 8 of the 0 of the nativity, and place of the D’s
direction. This new Moon likewise happened in the
8 of 3‘ in the progressions, and, by the ingress of 6‘
from 1.: 22°, had its morning station nearly above the
place of the secondary direction of the Q , and in the D ’s
declination. - .
On the 24th of February, the p was found in the
same 9° of 'Y', in its secondary direction, under the pa
rallel of J ; in_ the same place the 1) also was in the
parallel of 11., but could be of no service, as not being
conjoined to the places as well of the radix as the direc
tions : yet she delivered from a more grievous calamity,
which, from the constitution of the nativity, was de~
noted to be extremely unfortunate 5 for the 1), the
conditionary luminary, was in the parallel declination
of I; , and in his mundane parallel; but, what is
worse, is I; being in the centre of the supreme cardinal
house, or medium cali, and the 1) cadent in the ninth,
from which I; was very strongly elevated above it, and,
moreover, as the unfortunate directions Were, as has
144 rnmuu monlLi‘.
been observed, at that Itime-lpo-werful, it agorded but
small assistance. ' 1 ~ ‘ - ’ ' \ '
He died in the year 1547, in the month Of April,
from the D’s) direction, the signiﬁcator of 'life, to
the 8 of y , followed by the parallel declination 097;,
for § was of the nature of 1;, on account of the pa
rallel of declination, and by reason of the sign a, and
had something of '3 , because of' the sextile. The ob- A
liquc ascension of § to the pole of the 1) 7°, is 198° 4',
from which, stthtracting the 1) ’s oblique ascension there
taken, M7" 36', there remains the arc of direction
50° 28', which, for the equation, I add to the 0's
right ascension, and I make the sum 229°, 14' = 21° 20’
of m, at which the Q, from the day and hour of the
nativity, arrives in 52 days 16 hours, which denotes 52
years 8 months. By converse direction, the D had
descended to the (9’s :1 : v '
'As the (D’s semi-nocturnal arc ' . . . 5h 67’
is to the 0’s dist. from the imum cozli . 20° 58
so is the D’s semi-nocturnal arc . .' . 5" 15
to the 1)"s secondary dist. from the west ' 18° ' 30
The oblique ascension of the 1) ’s‘0pposition in the ho
roscope is 137° 30', .from which, subtracting the horoe
scope’s oblique ascension, there remains the )>"s pri
mary distance from the West 69° 42'; the second
ary subtracted from this, leaves the arc of direction
51° 12', greater by 44’ than that taken above, which '
makes but little difference. ' '
You will ask, why the 6 of b with the 1) was not
the cause of his death. I answer, because there the D‘
was in a contrary latitude, and happened in the terms
\I
1&1an mourns. 145
of a beneﬁc: also the 8 of 3‘ ,to the D , by a converse
direction, did not. kill’*, as the h applied to the pa
rallel of u in the world by the same converse motion.
But this nativity, with respect to life, certainly was not
very strong, by reason of the unfortunate state of the
1) , the signiﬁcator of life.
The causes of the antipathy between these two prinCes
were the ascendants in signs and places opposite to de
grees and minutes; I; of Francis ttpon the Q of
Charles; 6‘ of Charles in u to the p of Francis; the
D of Charles in the sesqui-quadrate of 8‘ of Francis;
1; in the opposite cardinals; __8 angular in the one,
catlent in the other, alternately in the 1:1, Ste.
Francis the First was crowned King ol'Frence in 1515, and, in the
same year, lost. the Duchy of Milan, but overthrew the Swiss at
the battle of Marignan. He was taken prisoner by the Emperrir
Charles the Fifth, at the battle‘of Pavia, in the year 1525, and,
being set at liberty, began the war again, but was wholly bcaten
out of Italy. Francis had likewise wars with Henry the Eighth,
King of England, who took Boulogne from him in 1544. He was
married twice; his ﬁrst wife was Claudia, daughter of his prede
cessor Lewis the Twelfth; and, his second, Eleanor, daughter of
Philip the First, King of Spain, by whom he had issue one son and
two daughters, viz. Henry the Second, who succeeded him in the
throne of France; Magdalen, who was afterwards married to
James the Fifth, King of Scotland; and Margaret, married to
Charles, Duke of Alencon; and, after his death, to Henry the
Second, King of Navarre.
,’ Ptolemy says, there is only one convene direction able to kill,
viz. Aphrte ad Oecuu.
X
146 PRIMUM MOBILE.
EXAMPLE III.
If? *‘
“9* b E 0 |
\ LP? ' \‘g I ‘
O (I) Q o
“I:
m ,
(1'49 '51
5 PHILIP III.
King qf Spain. (9
Mp m “a? x __
“a . norm ‘5‘ >2
‘5. id'Qo‘ April the 14th,]578, i Q
14h. 47111. P. M.
LATITUDES. DECLINATIONS'.
1,..006'N. ‘23°15's. .
2L . . 1 35 N 0 48 S.
8‘ . 1 39 S. 18 17 S.
Q..00 1913 N.
g..11ss.> 940N..
§ . . s o s. 1 31 N.
$1.4uN. 2340N.
MA-ﬁ- ____J_ - L.
PRIMUM MOBILE. 147
HE died on the 3lst of March, 1621, aged 42 years
11 months. He was, for the ﬁrst time, in 1614,
seized with a ﬂow of humours from the head, which
lasted without any intermission, together with a weak
state of health.
The horoscope, signiﬁcator of life, in the 43d year
of his age arrived at the n of I; by our method, where
of the calculation is as follows :
- The right ascension of the medium cwli is 253° 0', the
right ascension of 1, 295° 23'; from which there re—
mains the arc of direction of the medium cmli to 7;
42° 14', from which place 5 projects the c! to the
horoscope. ' '
For the equation, I add this! are of direction to
the 0’s right ascension 32° 9’, and I make the sum
74? 23’, answering to 15° 40‘ of n, which the G) from
the day of the nativity arrives at in 43 days, which de
>note so many years of life. For the “secondary direc
tions, I add 42 days for so many years, 22 hours for
ll months, and 28’ for 7 days; therefore, the second
ary directions are made on the 27th of May, 1578, with
I3“ 15', P. M. ni-I
Q I) h u 6‘ 9 l! '8‘
De . n )6 U 1.1- x 11 n X
0
Lou. 15.40 12.0 22.50 1.50 15.0 21.0 28.0 28.37
Ln. “it 0.14 2.1.8
148 rnmoiu menus.
The Q is. found in the parallel of the declination of
V2, andinthemof; and Dofthe ) in d with 6‘,
by long. and lat. And to the hour, P. M. 131‘ 15', the
27th of May, is posited in the horoscope ‘r' 5° 45‘, and
in the medium 00in 3“ of he. The progressions for 43
years happen on October the 5th, 1581, whilst the 1)
had 21° 11?; but we must subtract 24°, in order that
the I) may be posited in 1‘ 27°; the rest as follow:
I
ol ) b u a 9 a sa
' Def. .e ‘ g be e 111 0 er
. o .
Lon 20.0 27.19 22.19 10.30 38.15 10,0 3.40 23.42
11
The (9 was conjoined to 6‘ , the D to the 1:: of § ;
the former had arrived at the c1 of I; of the nativity,
and the latter to its parallel. On the day of death, the
stars were posited thus: v
ov ) l b u a 2 t! 0
Deg. or sale: a m at 'r' t
0
‘Lon.10.58 191110.42 21.16 nae 13.9 111.53 10.511
The 9, on-the day he died, was posited upon y of
the nativity, for Q was maleﬁc by reason of the sign
and mundane parallel of 6‘ ; p opposite to I, of the
nativity, and secondary direction; I, in the 1:: (of
the secondary direction) of the horoscope, that is, from
mums mourn: 149
the imum cali ,' for in the medium cmli are, as we have
said, it? 3°; and, when the horoscope is signiﬁcator of
life, such rays, when directed to it, are very powerful.
Lastly, there is a remarkable new Moon in ‘Y' 3° be
fore his death, and, afterwards, the quadrant of the 0
being upon the secondary direction of the horoscope,
and the n in its :1, and s with 0 with the ray :3
of b to the horoscope; but it was expected that the
a would arrive at the 8 of b, of the nativity and st
condary direction. An eclipse of the D preceded the
year 1620, in 24° of ,t ; the 1) remaining between
the 8 of 3‘ and r; in the medium cali; the sign 1
respects spain and the men, the medium carli royal dig
nities; all this is agreeable to the sentiments of Ptod
lemy; and, also, another eclipse of the Q in 14° of
II, that is, in thetD of the king’s ascendant; and,
lastly, in the revolution, the 0 was with 6 and the
D in their D and parallel of declination, and b in
'thc D of the ascendant of the nativity.
In the year 1614, on the 2d of June, in the 36th
year of his age, he was taken ill of a violent ﬂow of
humours from the head, at which time the 1) arrived
at the sesqui-quadrate of 3‘ in the zodiac near 8, and
parallel of the declination 01’ § , and, by converse mo
tion, the 1) to the C! of §, when she was separated
from the sesqui-quadrate of 3; the quintile of 2
followed, which is injured by the g of I; , the ascend
ant to the 6 of 9. i
As any one will ﬁnd, if he pleases to calculate these
' directions. .
1'50 ' 4 l'nmvu mommt.
By secondary directions, on the 36 days succeeding
the nativity, the 0 was conjoined to 9 , and entered the
parallel of the-declination of b, with 8 of the D, fol- .
lowed by the i: of 3 to both, in which parallel the 0
continued almost without interruption, but was not the
signiﬁcator of life.
A disorder in the head is chieﬂy denoted from the
parallel of the D’s declination with b in the nativity
and mundane parallel with y , who is also found in the ,
mundane parallel of 6‘ .
—_
. This king came to the crown of Spain in 1698, at the age of 20
years; and, in 1610, be expelled 900,000 Moors and Jews out of
Spain. lie was married to Margaret, daughter of Charles, Arch_
duke of Austria, by whom he had eight children, three of which
died infants. ' .
PRIMUM MOBILE. 15 1
EXAMPLE IV.
King of France.
NI“
BURN
December 13th, 1 553,
14 h. 13m. P.M.
~h”
LATITUDI 48°,
1905 ~ #0
#
LATITUDES. DECLINATIONI.
r, . 1° 55' s. 9013' s.
u . 1 26 N. - _
a‘ . 0 a S. 22 42 s.
Q . o 0 2s 81 S.
2 . 2 12 N
D . . s e s '5 16 N. f
152 ‘ raimm nouns.
IN the year 1610, on the 14th of May, 4" 48‘ P. M.
be received awound of which he died. In 1594, on
the 15th of December, he was slightly wounded in the
face.
Argol describes this nativity in his works on the Cri
tical Days: He places in the medium c'ali 3° 21' 51, but
in the horoscope 27° 20’ of as, although, according to
the latitude of the country, which he explains in the
ﬁgure, page 48, there should be placed in the horoscope
26° 9’ A. He likewise places the 1) 21° ll.’ of W‘;
but, according to the common Ephemeris and Tables
of moveable seconds, the p is posited in 25° 35’ of ‘Y',
in which place she is a very powerful signiﬁcator of
life, and which is manifestly proved by an agreement of
the time of death with the 0’s direction to the U of
I; in the zodiac, near 11° l’of 11!, when the 1) has
3° 21' louth latitude.
The oblique ascension of the 1) ’s opposite place to
the pole 48°, is 2ll° 25', which, subtracted from the
oblique ascension of the horoscope, there remains the
1‘ 19‘s distance from the'west 4° 15'. The nocturnal ho
rary times of the. 1) are 14° 2', the elevation of the
pole of the sixth house is 37°; the diﬂ'erence, there
fore, of the pole of the sixth and seventh houses is.
11°; Isay, if the duplicate nocturnal horary times of
the 1) 28°, gives the polar diﬁ'erence of the houses 11°,
what will the 1) ’0 distance from the west'4° 15’ give?
Facit 2°, which, being subtracted from the pole of the
seventh home, there remains the p ’s pole {-16% under
which the oblique ascension of the D ’s' 8 is 210° 59’,
7% e — __ :
s'mstou moans. 153
and the oblique ascension of 1‘ 11° 1’, in north lati
tude 3° 21’, is 270° 37', from which, subtracting the
former, leaves the arcof direction 59° 38’, which, be- p
ing equated, points out 56 years and 6 mmths nearly.
By converse direction the a and 7;, by the rapt
motion of the primum nubile, happened to be posited in
equal proportional distances from the imum mli, called
a rapt parallel, calculated thus :
The p’s semi-nocturnal arc is 84" 6' or 5h 37'
Saturn’s semi-nocturnal arc . . . . 6 41
The _» ’s right ascension . . . . . . 25° 33
Her distance from the imam cueli . . . 79 53
Saturn’s right ascensitm . . . t . 343 14
Distance in right ascension from the 1) . 42 19
Then, as the sum of the semi-neonates . 12- 18
is to the I: ’s semi-noemrnal are . . . 5 37
so is the distrince in right ascension . . 42° 19
to the D ’s secondary dist. ﬁrom the 4th, . 19 19
which, being subtracted from the primary, leaves the arc
of direction 60‘" 34', one degree subsequent to the other
direction.
Argol tells us, King Henry escaped, with danger, by
a wound he received in his under lip, which struck out
somle an teeth, in the year 1‘594, on the 15th ofDe
cetnher, when he was exactly 41 years of age; at which
time the s, in a right motion, arrived at the :1 of r,
in the world; which is thus wrought: ~
As the 1) ’s semimoctu'mal arc . . a . “5g ‘37'
is to herdist‘ance from the west . . . . it0 15
so is the semi-nocturnal arc of I, . . . 6" 41
to the secondary distance of i; from the 4th 5" 3
Y \
“M.,,” w--- _ '_-* t- a- t s:
154 PRIMUM MOBILE.
which, added to his primary, 2 37° 34', makes the arc
of direction 42° 37', which being equated, as usual,
gives 40 years; therefore, the true direction had pre
ceded some time before.
There was likewise, a little before that, the p = to
the rapt parallel of 3 , being equi-distant from the im
cash. The I) ’s semi-nocturnal are is 5h 37', the semi,
noctnrnal are of 3 7h 50’, their sum l3h 27’, the right
ascension of 3 287° 5', his distance in right ascension
from the 1) 98° 28' 3 hence you have her secondary dist—
ance 41° 7.', which, subtracted from her primary, which
is 79° 53’, leaves the arc of direction 38° 46’. Y
These directions .of b and 3 to the D were not
mortal, as she continued, by right direction, within the
rays of u, and in his terms, and, also, in a parallel
of the declination of 9 . On the 15th of December,
1594, 3 . was in 23° m, in 8 of the p ’s place
of direction, and the D in 4° of 5, with latitude south
5°; nearly in the parallel of 3’s radical place.
The secondary directions to the 56th year, together
with the 4 months and 20 days, fall on February 8,
1554, almost in the meridian.—-The places of the
planets were as follow :
o )> b s twat!“
Den: 8 X
8 ~
a". swat
0 ~---- ’ .
[/m. 29.44 18.14 17.19 1.55 1.10 4.47
Isle
. . s. N. s.. 1;, ~,, 0, Q
Lat. 1.42 1.52 0. +1.11? 1. , 1
- ~ - '11-! 98}! _ e!
-
,, =
l .I '
Pltmom “0511:. 155
Where the Q was eonjbined to 8 by longitude and
latitude, about the beginning of the sign X, a was also
there, and not far from '5, who surrounded the 01
place on' the- day he received the" wound, and which i
' place the 0 entered by a c!‘ ray,‘ in which he was af
flicted by I; in an angle; and the D , on the 8th of
February, was in 18°of 8', in latitude 4° 20’ south,
by which she gained the declination l4° 20’ ; I; had
this same declination, and likewise was in c: to this same
place of the D, on the day he got the wound; at which
time the D was in 7° of 3:, in CI of §, which re
ceived the nature of ‘3 from the parallel of declination;
and, also, b’s C1 in the world.
Places of the Progressions of the P1411141, the m of
July, 1558.
G ) h u 3‘ 9 Q I Q
Berg-l w 'r ts == 23 n 51 qr
o .
Lon. 21.0 11.34 22.51 8.88 16.19 10.11 1530 23.21 I
The progressions to the end of the 56th year, depend
on the 24m of June, was, when 1118' n was posited
in 6° of m ; 'for the 4 months and 24 days, we advance
ﬁve signs and 6°, and come to the 7th of July ; the Q
was then separated from 6‘, denoting a conspiracy to
have preceded; b was in-23° of 3 ; the Q entered
this place exactly on the day he was wounded, asin
l7° of EB, whose declination the D had on the same
day. '
_______ H v 'A ﬁrN-u- -- ya.“ “‘—
_A\_~_1- I 5*,-w"- ‘.
5.6 .881an wall-tr.
But it was six days before the famoutfull Moonﬂhe
9 being 17° of' 3, and the 11' 17° of In, which, ap
plied to D of b, and the it, having 4° latitude, was
in exact parallel of the declination of b and Q . You,
see, therefore, that the many agreements with tho
places of the secondary directions and progressions from
' the day he received the wound, together with the pre
ceding lunation, ate agreeable to what Ptolemy says in
the last chapter of Book IV; from which we are like-i
wise taught, always to observe those lunations wherein
the luminaries are afflicted by inimical rays ;_ and, par
ticularly, if the places inwhich those rays are unfors
tunate, either by ingress or transit, and aﬁlict the PTO!
rogators of the nativity, or, rather, if their aspects with
them be hostile, as we shall ﬁnd in the following ex
amples.
Henry- the. £90173!!!» called tbsGteat Kiss Of me and N -
varre. In his 15th year he was held otithe Protestants in France.
At who was invited to the French Court at Paris, to be present at
the massacre of the Protestants, and in the same year, upon the
death of his mother,ha took upon himself the title of King of Na
varre. He thrice extorted peace from the King's party; and, by
thé- battle of Courtrny in 1581- (lIenry HI. being then living),
dinning! the league entered into by the Pope, the King of Spain,
and, the: Guisian Faction, against the Protestants. Henry wap
crowned King of France in 1594,, and was assasamaited in Paris by
Francis anillac, on May 4th, 1610. He was married twice, but
divorced his ﬁrst wife and married Mary de Mcdicis, daughter of
Francis the Great Duke of Tuscany, by whom he had four children,
two sons and twodaughters.
I
rammivuomm.
EXAMPLE V.
157
SEBASTIAN
King quortugal.
January 19, 1.554.
3111- 46m. P. M.
if,
urn-rem: 40°.
La'rrrunes.
/I o
Decumrross.
1° 43’ 5. 1° 47' S.
1 44 N.
0 4 S. 16 4.2 S.
0 0
1 10 N.
. 1‘ 48 N.
2 51‘ N. 16 12 N
158 raiyuwnomn.
IN the year 1578, on the 4th of August, he was mor
tally wounded in the war in Africa, aged 24 years, 6
months, and II days. 7
This nativity has a very near resemblance to that of
Francis I, King of France; in both, the I) is posited
in the ninth house, declining from an 8 of 6‘ , which
remains in the third. In Sebastian, the a has the de—
clination of 6‘ , which constitution denotes journies for
the cause of war. In both, the p is injured by the as
pects of the maleﬁcs. In Francis, by the declination
of t; ; in Sebastian, by that of 3 ; in both I; is in the
sign x, angular in the mundane parallel of the 1),
above which he is elevated. In Francis, from the me
dium cmli; in Sebastian, from the imum cali ; in both,
the 1) is the conditionary luminary; which being so
unhappily affected, denoted calamities in journies; in
both 1.1, is unfortunate, succeeding the rays of I, to the
medium caeli; in Francis cadent in'the sign ml; in Se
bastian R; where to the good things by him signiﬁed,
he added sorrows ; in both, § assumes the nature of the
enemies; for in Francis, he is in the parallel of 'decli
nation‘of 1;, and * of 3 ;' in Sebastian, in the mun
dane parallel of b, which is elevated above it from the
fourth house; in the other from the medium caeli;
which constitution infers the ﬁxed obstinaey of his
mind and tendency to perform things that are difﬁcult,
nay, even impossible. » ‘
Argol, in this nativity, omitting the 1) , to whom the
right of hyleg belongs, directed (when the numbers of
his calculation did not agree), the ascendant to the C1
PRIMUM MOBILE. 159
of t; , which ray contains signs of the smallest ascen
sions, as are 15’, 2:, and x ; the place also of the direc
tion is in the terms of 9, and the antiscion _of 2 suc
cedent, according to common opinion, and doubtless they
were strong and sufﬁcient grounds for this opinion ; but
asiwe have fully demonstrated in the Celestial Philoso
phy, the rays of the stars taken to the angles in the zodiac,
are altogether as nothing; and in this nativity the 1) be
comesa very powerful significator of life; who, at the time
of this King’s accident, came. by direction to 2l_° of "1,
with latitude 4° 23’ north, where it was afflicted by the
parallel declination of b 7° 47’, which is thus calcu
lated.
The D ’s declination 16° 12', answers to 51, 15° 40’,
whose horary times, 17° 22', doubled, are 34° 44’ ; the
polar elevation of the ninth house is 16°, the I) ’5 right
ascension 147° 29’; from hence arises her distance from
the medium cmh' 11° 26', and her polar elevation 5°;
under which the oblique ascension of the p ’s <9 is
328° 56'; the oblique ascension of x 21°, with latitude
4° 23’ South, is 354° 9’, from which subtracting the
former, leaves the are of direction 25° 13', which being
equated, as usual, produces 25 years. >
By converse motion, the 1)‘ was separated from the
*of 11,, and applied to the sesqui-quadratc of b ; but
the hyleg, by a converse motion, was weak, owing to
the 8 of § and 5‘ to which the D , by a converse,
motion, applied nearly.
‘When 1;. arrived at the medium cazli, he undertook
he friendly ofﬁce of- restoring Prince Muly to his father-5s
kingdoms.
160 n1an 110111111. '
But you will ask, why the 8 of I; to the 1) did not
destroy life? lanswer, from severalcauses: the King,
at that time, was preserved ;- ﬁrst, the D in the 8
.had gained much latitude, whereby she was far distant
from the diametrical point; second, the direction hap
pened in the terma of 9 5 third, the mundane A of the
same was succedent; fourth, after the mundane parallel
of 11 had preceded by a right motion, he applied by a
converse motion‘; but in mg 21°, none of the friendly.
rays assisted, but there is the beginning of the terms
of 3 . All these remarks are taken from Ptolemy, in
the Chapter of Life. »
The Secondary Directions are made on the 13th of Fe—
bruary, 1554, at 2 Hours 26 Minutes, P. M.
v
®)b 39§8'
I 1‘
Defg. X as X a X, :s' 1: GB
0 * —
1.011.450 21.20 18.01.26 s.10|11.1 1s.so 18.20
The Progressions on the 14th ofJanuary, 1556.
'11 6‘ 9l§8
"l :kfn
of .—
Lon. 3.55 27.13 8.7 29.26 27.34 10.14 8.47 11.16l
___4_
G D
_Deg.:
0"
It 11
i’lttMUM matte. 161
Theﬁillowing was the Position of the Planets on the
t . unfortunate Day.
Ll.» ale 3.. __
Dasha“;- qu-‘e \vr "a 87. X,
0 ,
Lon. Qi.1l7.2518.12l10.58 (20014.25 10.25 25.0
*0 to: S
For the secondary directions I add to the hour of the
nativity 24 days, l2 hours, 40 minutes} and I come to
the 13th of February, 1554, 2* 26’, P. M. in which the
0 was conjoined in longitude and latitude with 6‘,
exactly in 5° of it, without the least assistance of the
friendly rays; but the D was, on the day of his acci‘
dent, in the 8 of the Q, applying to the parallel of the
declination of I; of these motions; the ) , on the same
13th of February, was in 21° of ea, to which, on the ,
unhappy day, I; from the 8, and 3 in the D, were
mischieVously disposed; therefore, from the active and
passive ingress, the 1) continued unhappily situated, and
was also on the unfortunate day, with the declination of
I; of the nativity, and of his direction; and hath the
same almost with that of '3 , from 26° of ‘Y‘, with latitude
4" south. The progressions for 24 years are ﬁnished on
the 29m of December, 1555, when the D is there po
sited in 2° of $1.; for the other six months I add six
signs and a half, and I come to the 13th ofJanuary, 1556,
when the p was found in 17° of :7, that is, when the
6v with the Q has passed 15°, as the g of the 0
had passed so many in the nativity, and the I) is po
sited in 28° of s, on thel4th of January, the p
Z
162 Pamum mourn.
was in partile 6 with 3 , and both in the 8 of the » of
the nativity, to whose 8 the 0 applied on the fatal day.
The 0, in the progressions, was between the *, and
quintile, together with the parallel of declination of 74,
who, during the war, favoured by his A this place ofthe'
0. There had also preceded in the progressions a 6 with
the O and 2 ; and It, by transit from a A, aspected
the Q of the nativity ; hence it is evident, that the affairs
of the King, together with his army, were successful,
as he with his troops had seized upon the kingdoms of
others; but the stars threatened life, which when ex
tinguished, every thing fell equally with it.‘
The four following nativities, as they have the Q in
the crepnscnlums, the signiﬁcator of life, and the calcu
lations of the directions belonging to the saine Canons,
I was unwilling to separate, but have explained them,
one aFter another: as they bear testitnony to the truth of
my opinions concerning the crepuscules, it was likewise
my desire to have them all ready at hand, for every one
who wishes to have a proof of it.' "
n
rmswn moans. 168
EXAMPLE VI.
—?ra- 1’7
GUSTAVUS
A D U L P H U S,
King quwedrn.
7 h. 42 m. A. M.
N,
uriruor 59°.
Lani-unis.
b . . 0° 29' N.
11 . . O 47 S.
3 . 0 14 N.
164- um" Menu.
ON the 16th of October, 1632, 3k 17', P. M. be
was mortally wounded in an engagement, aged 37 years
10 months.
In this nativity, to the given matutinc hours, 7" 283'
there ought to be placed 20° 30' of A in the medium crzli,
and not 15° 42’ of 1:, according to the Argoline posi
tion; others assert, that the true hours are 7" 42': however
it be, it matters not, as we do not direct the horoscope,
but the Q, who, at the time of this king’s death, was
directed, by a right motion, to the 6 of It, the 0
of 6‘, and the 8 of I, in the zodiac, within the terms
of J ; but the presence'of It could be of no service as
being-alone, the enemies numerous; then the G), by
converse motion, was directed to the 15 of a and n
of I; , followed by the parallel of I; in the world, where
indeed there is a concurrence of the u of I! ; but, as
'I have said, being alone against several, he could not
influence, and even when he was the giver of true va
lour, he changed it to rashness, because afflicted by the
enemies, as Ptolemy tells us in his chapter on the Na
ture of the Mind.
The calculation of the right direction. The 0’: ob
lique ascension in the horoscope is 313“ 15’, from which
subtracting the horoscope's oblique ascension, there re
mains the Q’s primary distance from the horoscope
20° 48', the oblique ascension of 25° .1: the place of the
rays of 1; and 6‘ is 850° 21', from which subtracting
the 0’s oblique ascension, there remains the arc of (II?
rection, 37° 36‘, calculated in the horoscope; but as the
Q is in the morning crepuscule, I enter the' table of
__r_a_ a
rmmm Mosul.- 165
crepuscules to the pole 69°, with 280 1, and the 9’s
distance 28° 48’, which is his primary; and I ﬁnd the
0 remaining in the crepusculine circle of depression
8°, opposite to this crepuseuline circle under at, 25°;
after taking the proportional put, I obtain 16° 33', which
Icall the secondary distance, and subtract it from the
primary; there then remains the ortive dil'erence,
4° 15‘, but as the secondary distance is less thm the
primary, the difference therefole must be added to ths
are of direction, taken in the horoscope, and the true
are of direction is then 41° 21'; this are I add to the
0‘s right ascension, which is 266° 59', and the sum is
308° 20‘, answering to 5° 56' of :3, at which the
Q, from the day of the nativity, arrives in 38 days,
which denotes so many years. The calculation of the
9’s converse direction to d is thus: The 11th house
is elevated 31°, its oblique ascension is 232° 21‘ ; to the
same pole the oblique ascension of it is 24" 33’; the
distance therefore of 8 from the llth house is 12° 6’:
the ﬁlth heuse is elevated 49°, its oblique ascension is
262° 27' ; the oblique ascension of 8 to the pole of the
12th, is 255° 51’; therefore the distance of 6‘ from the
\2th house is 6° 36‘; those distances of 3 , added to~
gether, malte 18° 42', the space of the house of 8
above the earth: the diﬁ'eren of the polar elevation
ofthe 11th and l2th houses-1s 18°, from which arises
the polar elevation of a‘ 43° nearly; the oblique aseen.
‘sion of a to this pole 43°, is 251° 16' ; the 0’s oblique
ascension there is 290° 52‘; from which there remains
the arc of dis-lotion 39° 36‘, less than the preceding by
166 > ' rnrMUM Monies.
1°45’, so that from the 6 with 3‘ the 0 began to be
separated. ' ‘ 7
'The direction of the 0 to the n of I; in munda,
by converse motion is calculated as follows: the 011-"
lique ascension of the 3 of I; is 351° 16’, to the pole
59"(that is, in the horoscope); the right ascension of
ﬁsh 327° 11’, which, subtracted from the former,,'
leaves the ascensional diﬁ'erence of I; 24“ 5', and the
semidiurnal arc of'b becomes 114° 5’ z the distance of
b fromithe Vv'est is 58° 49', the 9's declination is
23°30’, ascensional difference 46° 23', semi-diurnal are
43° 37' ; and theO’s right ascension is 266° 59', from
which his primary distance from'the medium eali -is
64' 32'. J Inow require, if the semi-diurnal arc of 1;.
114° 5', gives his distance from the West 58°. 49‘, what
distance from the medium casli will the 9’s semi-diumal
arc 43°37 give? and by the logarithms the 0’s se
condary distance from the medium cmli is 22° 29', which.
subtracted from the Primary, leaves the are of direction
42°3' of the G) to 1:: of 1;. But if we add this secon
dary distance of the 9 22° 29' [0 his primary from the
horoscope, we make the 0’s are of direction to the
mundane parallel of 7; 43° 17'; therefore the directions
followed very near one after the other. But as 1 declare,
myself sincerely ingenuous, and desire nothing but the
bare truth of every thing, observe, gentle Reader,“ that 'I
have inserted this example in my _.Celcstial Philosophy,
page 252-, and have there remarked, that from Tycho’s
calculation, one degreeis to be added to the (D’s place;
for as Argol has placed a matutine hour, that is, from
PatMUM momma. _ 167
midnight, in the middle of this ﬁgure, I thought it be
longed to the night following the 19th day, for, among
several reasons, midnight is the end of the preceding,
and the beginning of the following‘day; but if 7" 28' be
from midnight, it certainly preceded the 19 days 5 and
I afterwards found, from the D ’s place, that that matu
tine hour belonged to the night preceding the 19th day,
therefore the 9’s place seems to have been rightly cal;
culated. _ ,J ' - i
For the secondary directions, I add to the hour of the
nativity 37 days 20 hours, for so many years and 10
months, and] come to the 25th of January 1595, with
the hour frdm meridian 17"42’: the Q was in .1: 6°,
and the D in 51 6°, who by a sesqui~quadrate ray and
parallel of declination assumed the nature of 3, with
whom she had these aspects while remaining in partile
8 of the O, and infected the Q also with the same I
evil qualities; Illle too was in parallel of 3 in the
radix, and likewise at setting T; and 3 entered aparal
lel exactly to this place of the Q; and D at the time of
the accident entered the exact parallel of 3 by these
motions on 'the 25th of January. The progressions for
full 38 years were made on the 13th of January 1598,
whilst the D was in 'Y‘ 16°; but there is a deﬁciency of
two months and four days, for the Q at his death was in
a 23°, but in the nativity 1‘ 27°, wherefore, from this
place of the D in 'Y‘ 16°, Isubtract 65° for the two
months and four degrees, to denote so many days, so
that the D is posited in :3 7°, that is, on the 81b of Ja
nuary 1598, when the?) was in Vj' 18° upon § of_the
168 nuth Mﬂitl.
nativity; and it is to be observed, that Q in the natie
vity takes upon him an inimical nature, because not
conjoined with the beneﬂcs, but, on the contrary, in the
house of b ; the in ) the exaltatlon of I) , It, and also
mundane parallel of 4' ; and applied to the parallel of
a in the nativity, and also set with I; and a‘ on the
day of the accident, a in the progressions from 28‘ of
u was found in 8 to the a of the nativity. 0n the
13th of October, 1632, three'days before the accident,
there was celebrated a new D in 20° of a, in D of E
of the nativity, and u of the 9's progression.
But it appears that y contributed not a little to the
Accident which befcl the King, who is reported to have
gone, merely out of curiosity, to rcconnoitre the enemy,
and was by them Wounded mortally.
Secondary Directions. '
Deg.
of
Lon. 6.0 6.0 22.40 1.55 2139 10.50 13.10 6.31
it
p ,2: X t» X 3: o:
Progressions.
0 1‘ l2 11 8‘ 9 § 83
Deg. Id"
Lon. 18.0 7.0 4.98 0.40 28.9 28.5!“ 8.0 9.30
ll ll) n n 2: kt“ X
yamuu MOBILI- 169 .
Places of the Stars at the Time of theAccident.
Q ) 7221(6‘ 9 § 8
Des-atmem’mﬂ'v'
0
Inn. 23.35 0.15 27.11 24.29 25.48 0.31 23.“ 27.5
R.
_
Gustavus Adolphus was crowned King of Sweden in the year
1617. In 1613 he made peace with the Dunes; and, with the
Russians, the year he was crowned. He had were with the Poles,
and reduced all Liﬁand in 1625. In 1680, he made an expedition
into Germany, and was slain at the bottle of Lutzen. Gustavus
married Mary Eleanor, daughter of John Sigismund,~ Elector of
Brandenburg, and left issue only one daughter, the Princess Chris
tina, who, under the regency of her mother, carried on the war in
Germany.
As
-i-e ‘\ '— *7
17d nmvu MOBILE.
EXAMPLE VII.
m
n
[*3 Kéfj‘ BORN
33 December 6th, 1573
“ 2&2 mmmeM
N’
LATITUDZ 44°.
LATITUDE!- DECLINA'I’XONS
. . 1° 46' N.
1 1a
1 5
o
41
56
43
_ 18° 35' N.
5 26 S.
dmwomgw
-..-..
ammo
939"!"
2.”,
ramum momma. 171
HE was elected Cardinal in March 159l, being‘ 17 -
years and 3 months old: a catarrh put an end to his
life on the 2lst of February, 1626, in the 52d'year, 2
months and 7 days of his age. ' '
Argol directs the ascendant to the antisci'on of I, ;
whereas the signiﬁcator of life belongs entirely to the (3),
which he omits, because the numbers of his calculation
do not agree. ~And as my method is perfectly right,
insomuch, that not only in these examples, wherein
the Q) is in the crepuscules, but also in others, wherein
the 0' is found in the obscure space, my calculations
ag'ree'wonderfully with the times. Doubtless, these ex
amples of deceased persons ought to be received; and
that no one Imay look upon this neat! opinion concern
ing the erepuscules as ridiculous, and not to be de
pended upon, there are several people who can vouch
for its truth.
The (9 then, in the 53d year, arrived at the :1 of
1, in the zodiac; the (D’s oblique ascension in the ho
roscope is 289° 32'; the oblique ascension of the qua
drate of I; is 344° 50',- from which, subtracting the
former, leaves the are of direction 55° 18’, calculated in
the horoscope; I subtract the horoscope’s oblique as
cension from the oblique ascension of the Q, and there
remains the 9’s primary distance from the horoscope
20° 57’, which I look for in the Tables of the Crepus
cules to the pole’s elevation 44°, but, as I do not ﬁnd
it, I take the nearest, which is 20° 14’, to the crepus
culinc circle of depression 13°; to the solar degree 25°
' of 1‘ ; and, to the same circle, under 2° K, I take the
ka»m \v
l'lﬁ anou mourn.
secondary distance 18° 20’ ; I subtract this from the
primary found in the Tables, which is 20° 14’ (for it is
of little or no consequence, as we have said in its Canon,
if we do not take the exact distance of the 0 20° 57’),
and there remains the ortive difference 1° 54'; but as
the secondary distance is less than the primary, 1 add
the ortive diﬁ'erence to the are of direction 55° 18', and
I make the true are of direction 57° 12'.
By converse motion, whilst the Q and g were car
ried away by the rapt motion of the primum mobile,
they happened to be posited in the mundane parallel
alternately, that is, in an equal proportional idistance
from the medium cwli ; the 0’s semi-diurnal are is 4a 21‘;
the semi-diurnal arc of 3 is 5" 38' (for the declination
of 3 is 5° 26', answering to 14° of A in the ecliptic).
I add these semi—diurnal arcs together, and I make the
sum 9h 59', which I put in the ﬁrst place; in the se
cond, the semi-diurnal arc of 6‘ 5h 38'; in the third,
the right distance which is between 8 and the Q, the
right ascension of 6‘ is 195° 27’, but, of the (9, 264° 48';
therefore, there remains their alternate right distance
69" 21’; and, in the fourth place is produced the se
condary distance of 8‘ from the medium caeli 39° 8',
which I add to the primary, because 8‘ is in the
ascendant part of heaven, and when the direction is
ﬁnished is in the descendant, and the arc of di
rection is 56° (for the primary distance of 3‘ from the
medium cali is 16° 52’). For the equation, I add
this are to the Q’s right ascension, which is 264° 48',
and the sum is 320° 48’, answering to :3 18° 20', at
which the 9 from the day and hour of thenativity ar
mums: “0311.1. 173
rives in 52 days and 2 hours. The right direction to
the u of I; was succedent; if, however, the place of
I; be true, which was succeeded by a D of 1) in the
zodiac, which, in the nativity, was in the 8 to b , and
the disease in its proper and natural signiﬁcation was de
noted to be mortal from the violence of the catarrh,
which was so great, that it caused asuﬂ‘ocation. For the
secondary directions, I add to the hours of the nativity
52 days, 4 hours, 30 minutes; for the 52 years, '2 months
and a quarter, andI come to the 28th ofJanuary, 1574,
a little before noon; the 9- applied there to the exact
parallel of 3‘ 3 also, the Q was conjoined to Q R,
who, being in 3.50 south latitude, was in the same pa
rallel of declination with I), and so, by reason of the
signs and aspects, assumed the nature of 1;. But it
deserves admiration, to ﬁnd, that on the day he took to
his bed, the 0 was found in 6 with § R, and nearly
in the same degrees of that sign, both being in the
parallel of 3, in which parallel 8‘ entered the 0’s
place of these motions; and, on the day preceding the
sickness, there happened a full 1) also near to these
places; the n, by her motion, was in 3 1°, with
8° 53' south latitude, whereby she had the. declination
of 18° l4'; this declination I; 1ntcred at his sickness
and death; on the day his disorder began, the 1) was
in It]: 7°, in a t: of I; by these motions. You see,
therefore, a mutual commutation of the active and
passive ingresses. Lastly, on the day he died, the Q
arrived at x 3° by primary direction, under a c: of r,
of the nativity, and 6‘ to 7° in u ; whence both in i
the quadrate and parallel he maligned the Q’s place of
174 rnrsmst Menu.
these motions of the secondary direction; but, when it
communicates any kind of aspect to the signiﬁcator of
life, if eudued with the nature of the maleﬁcs, he assists
towards a deﬂuxion of humours, and, more particularly,
if he participates with l; . -
Hear what Ptolemy says in the Chapter of Diseases
incident to the Body: " But § (says he) is a help to
“ the inveteracy of disorders, as he increases the frigi
“ dity of I; , when reconciled to him, and “its. a more
“ constant motion stimulates the phlegm and heap
“ of humours, in particular, about the breast, belly,
“ and throat, &c.” i
The progressions for 48 years are ﬁnished on the 24th
of October, 1577, when the D remains in ‘Y‘ 2l°, for
its distance there from the 8 of the 9 is 20°, as in
the nativity, for 52 years are ﬁnished on the 20th of
February, 1578, whilst she was in .9, 22°; for the two
remaining months the 1) goes over 65°, and is posited
in in. 27°. Lastly, for the other 7 days she goes 8°,
and is posited in 5° of m ; the Q was then in X 17°,
to which, from the opposition, I; entered at the time
of his sickness and death; and a‘ in the parallel, and
nearly in the 8, entered the D ’s place of the progres
sion "1 5°.
In his' 18th year, when the native was created a Car
dinal, the Q, by right direction, had arrived at a A of
it in the world, which we have calculated in Canon
XXXVI, to which we refer you; the medium cotli like
wise came to the A of 9 ; for the oblique ascension ‘
of the second house, which is elevated 38°, is 298° 35';
the oblique ascension of 2 in the same place is 318° 3',
PRIMUM momm. 175
from which, subtracting the former, leaves the are of
direction 19° 28'; so that this preceded, and that suc
cceded.
Secondary Directions to the Time of his Death,
January 28, 1574.
0bb1189§8
Des-marzsm‘rxn
1,011.18.“ 1.0 7.14 27.12 11.55 2.57 19.10 22.21
R.
Progressian on the 2501 of February, 1556.
(9)1211 a"? e a
ch.)(mkfﬂkf
ILotti. 17.0 5.0 21.!0 9.30 10.36 27.14 6-14 3.30
ii -2 g
On the Day qf the Sickness-,- 12th QfFebruary, 1626, the
Stars were posited thus,
14 a‘ 2 § 8
"I. 8
1.0 11.32 2.59 22.29 5.20
Deg.
Lon. 24.1 7.37 1
9.,
ii ,3
.ﬁ
,3
e'
O)
a H ,a
x F
176 PRIMUM MOBILE.
EXAMPLE VIII.
543—st
RainutiusFarnese ?
Duke q] Pan".
vitth. U“
“y a \
v ‘ °
_A_1 _‘
" nntuus. nmnwnmn.
'..2°85'N. 0°6'N.
. 0 42 N.
O I o 9 8.
~___ A _,
pm; vgbﬁsgﬁ
_ act"
' ‘N'k
Pttrmm nonmz. 177
I HE died the 5th of March', 1622, of a dropsy, aged
52 years and ll months. The Q is, doubtless, the
signiﬁcath of life in this nativity; but Argol not ﬁnd
ing, in his numbers, any direction of the Q for 53 years,
directs the ascendant to a A of b , which is in signs of
the longest ascension, and the place of the direction is
thebeginning of the terms of ‘4, so that this direction
has not the least deadly appearance. According to our
method the Q arrives by right direction to a :1 of 6‘
in the zodiac; the 0's oblique ascension in‘ the horo
scope is 8° 28’, from which, subtracting the horoscope’s
oblique ascension, there remains the 0’s distance from
the horoscope, 18° 43’ 3‘ the oblique ascension of en 0.0
is 65° 10', from which, subtracting the 9's oblique as
cension, leaves the are of direction calculated in the ho
roseope 56° 42’. In the Table of Crepuscules I look
for this distance of the 9 18° 43’, under the pole’s cle
Vation 44°, to the degree of the 0 in ‘7‘ l6°, and I
take the proportional part between the distance 18" 32',
which is to °l' 10" to the crepusculine circle 13°, and
the distance 19° 1' which is to 20" 'r, i. e. for 6", for
the Q is in 'r lﬁ"; and the dilTerence is 29', from.
which, for the 6', 17’ are due to be added to l8” 32',
and I make 18' 4?. But the 6’s distance is 18° 43';
this I reject, and take 18° 49’, for it matters not, as we
have said in the Canons. To the same crepusculine
circle 13° under 5 0.0, I take the 24° 45’, which are
the secondary distance, and greater than the primary by
5° 56’, which are therefore to 'be subtracted from the
arc of direction above found, and there remains the true
B b
178 rrmwsr MOBILE.
I
are of direction 50° 46’, which, for the equation, add
to the 6’s right ascension 14° 31', and I make the sum
65° 17' answering to 11 7°, which the 0 from the hour
of the nativity reaches in 53 days, which measures so
many years. At the same time, the G, by aconverse
motion, came to the sesqui-quadrate of I? in mimdo.
The oblique ascension of the opposite place of b is
6° 19', from which, subtracting the horoscope’s oblique
ascension, there remains the distance of b from the
west 16° 34' ; but, as the horary times of I, are 15',
it is evident that I; was posited about the: middle of the
seventh house, distant from the middle 1" 34'; there
fore, the 0, as he has nearly the same horary times
as I; , is posited in his sesqui-quadrate before he arrives
at the cusp of the tWelfth house 1° 34'; the 6’s horary
times 16°, doubled, make 32°, to which I add the G’s
distance from the east 18° 43', and I make the sum
50° 43', from which, subtracting 1° 34’, there remains
the are of direction 49° 9', so that this direction had
I preceded a year, in case the place of I; be true. But
there happened also to be a sesqui-quadrate of r; to
the p in mundo, by a converse motion. There had
likewise preceded a parallel of it to the Q in the world,
whilst both were moved together by the motion of the
primum mobile; but, as 2‘ is unthrtunate, and the D in
the sixth house in the sesqui-quadrate of the 0, the signi
ﬁcator of life, they denoted a dropsy, and, according to
\ Ptolemy, a bad state of the lungs. I take the second
ary directions to the 52d year complete, together with
the 11 months, from the 18th of May, l569,‘ with the
meridional hours 14" 24'; the D was in ‘5 12”, who
must MOBILE. 179
was separated from the .9 of 1.1.. On the day he died,
which was the 5th of March, I, was found upon the
place of the 1) ; and, again, on the same day, the 1)
entered a :1 of I, of these motions; the O arrived at
'11 7°: there was a full 1) before he died, that is, on
the 26th of February, 1622, the 0 being in 8° of X,
and the 1) in 1111 8°, in 0 to the place of the 6's se
condary direction; and, at the full I», the luminaries
were in the parallel of 8‘ : on the day he died, 3; en—
tcred the parallel of It 7°, the place of the 0’s se
condary direction. 7
The progressions are made on the 6th of July, 1573 ;
the Q was in a: 23°. On the day he died, 8‘ entered,
from the Cl, this place of the Q; the )) in :1 of 6‘
near .0. 11°, to which I), on the day of his death, was
in D .
The secondary directions were asfollow :
0 D h it 6‘ 9 if ' 83 '
Deg u is It? 8 5 8 "1!
ol —-——-—
Lon. 7.0 12.0 3.27 10.21 11.32 22.21 15.96 23.10
I
The places of the progressions are these .
o‘) s, u a
Beingsﬁm 315252325
0
Lon. 23.0 11.0 20.10 29.33 11.15 20.3 4.0 3.16
+0
0“ 3)
"Hawa— .___.‘__ v ’ #d—j ___~ v .1 i .
180 PRIMUM MOBILE
On the day he died, the planets were in the following
places:
0 ) i P: 1i 8 92 § 8
eg. X 1‘ \ 22 n ‘Y' b X 1'1
of \—
Lon. is o l 28.0 14.610.54 21.15 1.6 15.39 23.13
Observe the unfortunate disposition of ‘M. in all these
places to signify adropsy.
EXAMPLE 1X.
J“, r
BORN
\pril the ‘let, 1612.
16 h. 96m. P. M.
Paiutm MOBILE. 181
lATITIJDIJ. DECLINATIO‘SI.
I; . . 1° 1' 8. 1° 14' S.
7.1. . 0 50 N. 16 84 N.
a . 0 41 S. 9 so S.
Q . 0
9 . 1 2 N
y . 1 55 S. 1 18 N.
1; - a as S.
HE died the 14111 of April, 1637, of an apoplectie
ﬁt. In June, 1626, he was much troubled with violent
pains in the head. '
In this nativity, Argol directs the ascendant to the
o of u for the time of his death, as if it happened ‘
that 14 was an anareta; whereas the signiﬁcator of life
is entirely proper to the (3, who is in the angle of the
east, and the beneﬁcs can by no means be anaretas.
Indeed, it is true, if they are unfavourably mixed toge
ther with the destroyers of life, they can distinguish the
kind, nature, and cause of death. But, from their na
ture, the beneﬁcs use their power rather to save than
destroy, even from the ray 1:: and 3, as we ﬁnd it
in Ptolemy, in the Chapter of Life; the 0, therefore,
the signiﬁcator of life, arrives ate :1 of 6‘ in the 20
diac in 26 years, and, by converse motion, was elevated
above the horizon to the mundane parallel of § ; the
0's oblique ascension is 18° 52’, from which, subtract
ing the horoscope’s oblique ascension, there remains
the 0's primary distance from the cast 12° 33'; the
oblique ascension of the r: of a‘ is 44° 37', from
which, subtracting the 6's oblique ascension, leaves the
182 PRIMUM momut.
are of direction 25° 45’; calculated in the horoscope.
In the Table of Crepuscules, for latitude 42°, I look for
the 0’s distance, and, in the ercpusculine circle 9° to 0'
of u, 1 ﬁnd 12° 54'; to 10° of 3, I ﬁnd 13°2l'; the
difference is 27'. I take the proportional part for 2° and
one-third, and I make the primary distance 13°; then,
in the same crepusculine circle 9°, under 11 7", by
taking the proportional'part, &c,., Iobtain the second
ary distance 14° 45'; the ortive diﬂ'erence is 1° 45’.
But as the secondary distance is greater than the pri
mary, the difference, therefore, must be subtracted from
the arc of direction 25° 45’; therefore the true are of
direction is 24°, which, for the equation, added to the
0's right ascension 30° 7’, makes the sum 54° 7’, an
swering to 3 26° 26', to which the 0, from the day
and hour of the nativity, arrives in 25 days, which sig
niﬁes so many years of age. The O is,, by a converse
motion, posited in a mundane parallel of y, whose
declination is 7° 17’, answering to 18° 30' of the eclip
tic; its horary times nocturnal are 13° 54'; its dist
ance from the east 9° 20‘ ; and its oblique ascension in
the horoscope is 15° 39’. The diurnal horary times of
the 0 (for he is posited above the earth) are 16° 53',
'wherefrom, in the fourth place, is produced the 0’s
secondary distance 11° 20', which, added to the primary,
makes the are of direction 23° 53'.
But it is_very evident, that § possesses an anaretic
power; even from the nature of the effect, which is
apoplexy; for § is in exact parallel of 5’s declination,
applying to the declination of 3 ; he is likewise in the
- mundane parallel of I, 3 and, as he has his :1 to the
‘ ramps: MoBILB. 183
- D , denotes a very grievous disorder in the head, espe
cially when found in the centre of the horoscope, and
western angle. The Q waslikewise joined, by a con
verse motion, to b , whose declination is reduced to x
11° 40’ in the ecliptic, and the diurnal horary times be
come 13" 55’, which, doubled, is 27° 50/; the pole of
the twelfth house is 31", the oblique ascension of r; in
the horoscope 'is 352° 34’, and there remains his dist
ance from the east 13° 45'; from which, in the fourth
place, are produced 5°, to be subtracted from the pole
of the country, and there remains the polar eleva
tion of 1, 37°, under which his oblique ascension is
351° 28": the 9’s oblique. ascension there is 20° 4l’,
from which, subtracting the former, leaves the are of di—
rection 29° 13', so'that the Q was only 4° distant from
I; ; therefore, from these four examples of the G), con- '
stituted in the crepumules, it is sufﬁciently and plainly
proved how well the calculations by the crepusculinc
circles agree. But I proposed this method by reasoning
upon, and also observing, the accidents in these exam
ples, as I never could persuade myself to neglect the
true signiﬁcath of life. It it usual, with some, to an
swer this method of proceeding, by saying, that there
is no occasion to be so rigorously exact in the judgment
of nativities, and that almalign inﬂuence to the horo
scope may kill, if it has not the primaly signiﬁcation of
,life. But, from such reasoning, the order and method
which Ptolemy lays down for the election of a prom
gator are quite absurd; unlessJife be at the disposal of
a sole primary signiﬁcator only, and a. very powerful rea
\
184 PRIMUM stonun.
son convinces us it is so. For either one prorogator
only, that is, if more powerful with respect to the rest,
denotes life; or else one, with others competent, as
colleagues; but this last cannot be admitted, as it
would create a confusion which could not be cleared up,
and Ptolemy never taught it should be so. They say,
that life primarily regards the principal prorogator; and,
secondly, the ascendant; so that, in the occourses to
the maleﬁcs, it may kill ; but it is quite the reverse, for
if a prorogator, who, from its powerful and digniﬁed
place, is entitled to the signiﬁcation of life, can, by his
inﬂuencing power, support that life, no other of inferior
virtue can put an end to it. Again, they say, the rea
son why those nativities are stronger, wherein several
concur, to signify life, is because the signiﬁcators of life
being numerous, there is a proportional increase of
strength to prolong life. But it is quite otherwise, for,
from several signiﬁcators, the aspects of the destroyers
are multiplied by the diEerent and numerous directions;
therefore, any person having several signiﬁcators of life,
would be lower in station and shorter lived; in truth,
they direct the horoscope to the maleﬁcs, purely that it
may kill; though the luminaries at that time happily
signify life, and are strong, owing to the aspects of the
favourable planets with which they continue in direc
tion ; one, therefore, only signiﬁes life, elected, aceord
ing to Ptolemy’s method, &c. But let us look for the
other motions in the nativity now before us,
The secondary directions are made May 16, 16l2,
at 16 hours nearly, when the D was in 1 24° in c: of
PRXMUM MOBILE. 186
3, § in the :1 of 3’s radical place, and that of the
deadly direction. At his illness, the i) was posited in
D to this place; and, on-the day he died, was found
there with the \:| of § in 0 of 3 of these motions,
for 3 was in x 25°, and 1) in 1 25" on the day of
death, and 5} in at 26°. On the 9th of April, which
preceded his/death, there was celebrated a full Q, the 0
being in <Y' 20°, upon § of the nativity, and the 1)
opposite: and, at his death, the Q exactly transitcd
this place of g, maligned by the CI of I2, who, in his
transit, was found to remain upon the 1), and in the
n of y ’s radical place.
The progressions to the end of the 25th year, are
made on the 29th of April, 1614, the 1) being in 4:."
0°; but 7°»rnust be subtracted, for his death happened
7 days before the 0's return to the natal place, and the
J) was posited in 23° of 13? upon her proper place of
the nativity, in the n of y, where b was found at
death; the 1), at his illness, entered the 8 of 3 of
the progressions, where it was in 29° of x, and, at his
death, she was posited in its 9, and § was found ex
actly in the same place on the day he died; the G, on
the same day, was posited. in the D of the I) of the
progressions, and parallel of 3 ’s radical place ; and it is
truly admirable to see how well these agree. You are
to observe, likewise, that the ingresses and transits,
both active and passive, agree; aspecting the lunations
in the places, which are the cause of the effect, accord
ing to the true sense of Ptolemy. '
\
Cc
186 PRIMUM Momma.
Secondary Direction Places of the Stars.
o I 11 b I u a 2 § 9
D1;_g. 8 l 1‘ x l 5], 9.5 H II
o 7
Lon. 26.0 24.0 16.52 ‘11.s0 25.17 2.89 10.1 1.48
The Progressions of the Stars are those .
0})72148$§53
Q as
Dig- is w cv' x a B
0
Lon. 8.20 28.0 7.50 19.36 28.57 24.19 28.52 24.6
Places of the Planets, at the Time ofDeath, on the Hi]:
Qf'April, 1637, 3" Night.
61‘5u89i§83
Defg.¢rt‘d"'28<rxld’
0
Don. 24.48 27.0%.? 7.20 14.31 1.35 27.0990
PBIMUM MOBILE. 187
EXAMPLE X. _
<90 -
y I
we} r ‘
, *9
"ll
1” 1
Duke ofMantuc. ' “a e f
m o :1
Bonn > 23‘
April the 26th, 1587, *9'37 m e.
11 h. 1 m. P. M.
NJ“
unrune 414°.
@s
6‘
~ 1
. o ‘
LATITUDES. DECLINATIONS.
1,..202' s. 11°31'N.
'u, . . 0 11 S.
.3..284N. 785N.
o . . o 0 1s 34. N.
g . . 0 40 N.
y . 0 50 N.
)..~159N. 1831's.
188 ' PRIMUM MOBILE.
I
HE died in the month of October, 1626, aged 39
years and 6 months: as the 1) is in the centre of the
horoscope, she is the signiﬁcath of life, which, in the
39th year and a half, had arrived, by right direction,
to a parallel of the declination of the G and I, ; and,‘ '
as a question sometimes arises, to know at what place
the signiﬁcator arrives by directionin the zodiac, of- this
I will now shew an example: In the ﬁrst place, 1 thus
ﬁnd the are of direction adequate to the 39 ‘years and a
half; the 0 in 39‘1 12“, arrives at 11 14°, whose right;
ascension is 72° 38'; the O’s right ascension is 33° 42',
which, subtracted from the former, leaves the are of
direction for the given years 38° 56’; the 1) ’s oblique
ascension to the pole 44°, is 290° (18', to which 'I add
the are of direction 38° 56’, and I make the sum
329° 44’, at which the D arrives in the said year. I
ﬁnd this in the table of oblique ascensions about :3 16°,
with 3° 50‘qmrth latitude, that is, the same the D has
in that place; but the declination of this place, accord
ing to longitude and latitude, is 12° 50’; the Q’s decli
nation is 13° 34’; b’s declination is 11° 34’; there
fore the 1), in that place, obtained a mean declina
tion between the 0 and 5. But, as the Q was con
joined to 1?, and in the mundane parallel of 3, he
was endowed with their deadly qualities; from which
it being alone, in his *, could not relieve him. By a
converse direction the 1) applied to a mundane parallel
with the o and I; , whilst all were carried away by the
motion of the primum mobile. But if a 26° '45' are 'po
sited in the medium ewli, this ray, by a true calculation,
PRIMUM MOBILE. 189
exactly agrees, for the 1) ’s semi-diurnal are is 4!l 44' ;
semi-diumal arc of the 0’s opposition is 5" 6' ; which,
added together, make the sum 9h 50'; the D’s right
ascension is 271° 58’; her primary distance from the
medium caeli (26° 45’ of 1: being posited there, whose
right ascension is 204° 48') is 67° 10'; the right as
cension of the 9'5 8 is 213° 42"; and the right dist
ance between the D and 8 of the 9, becomes 58° 16’;
therefore, if that sum, 9h 50', gives the D’s semi
diurnal are 4" '44', the right diﬂ'erence 58° 16', will give
28° 3’, which, subtracted from the D’s primary dist
ance from the mediumxazli, leaves the arc of direction
39° 7’: she likewise applied to the mundane parallel of
3‘ ; and lastly, to the 8 of §, which direction may
easily be calculated. _
For the secondary direction, I add to the hours of the
nativity 39 days 12 hours, for the same number of years
andﬁ months, and Icomc to the 5th of June, 1587,
nearly in the meridian, in which the places of the planets
were as under : ‘
orbua'ee
Deg. n n 3 25 an M n A
of. 4 '
Lon. 13.43 14.24 10.45 16.88 24.25 28.55 101140 4».31
tn
S. S. S. N. S. S.
Lat. 4.20 2.9 0.5 1.5 2.10 2.24
The D under’thc 6's rays and the Q with § R
in the parallel of it’s declination ; but 14 was adverse to
the sign of the luminaries : in October, 1624, in which
190 ' PRIMUM MOBILE.
the native died, there was afull O in A 12°, with §
retrograde in 6 with 3‘ and parallel of b, and the se
condary direction in the parallel of 8‘ , and to the na
tivity in the parallel of 2 and 6‘ .
The progressions are made on the 6th of July, 1590,
or on the following day, because the day is not
known when the native died, yet the planets were nearly
as follow :
0 )1 72 14 6‘ / 9 §
De. 5 1m 11 e 23 bi SI
0
Lon. 14.33 .1142 21.33 9.33 13.28 29.56 8.37 4.46
Q
Sl.
N. S. N. N. N. N.
Lat. 5.25 1.36 >132 0. 3 3.11 1.22
The Gwas with 6~,the D in the c: of b ; in the
month he died, I; was upon this place of the D , and
a in the c; of the D ’s place, and the lunations in an
hostile ray to this place of 3 , and also of the 0.
PRIMUM MOBILE;
EXAMPLE XI.
is “x
I cosmo II. '
Great Dukeqf'l'usca ny.
II,
BORN
May t2, 1590,
6 h. 26 m. P. M.
NJ“
LATITPDE 43°.
lATlTUDES.
1, . . 1° 89' S.
a . . 0 4 N.
g . . 4. s S.
1) . . 2 25 N.
k_~ _“_-_¢»-\ ~_Mv—~ ~ ‘ “ "" _
192 PR1 MU M Momma.
HE died in the month of February 1621, being 30
years and 9 months old. _
In this geniture, as explained by Argol, the directions
' are computed in this manner. Argo] says the pole’s
elevation is 43°, the (D’s ascension 64° 34', the ascen
sion of I; ’s 6 94° 42’, and by subtraction the arc of di-
rection 30° 8'; then the horoscopc’s :gmnsion 244°,
the ascension of I; ’s 8 274° 42’, and by subtraction the
arc of direction 30“ 42': but I confess I am ignorant
how it can happen, that the same are of direction should
fall to the same promittor‘of two signiﬁcators, who, ac-l
cording to the ascensions, are 3° of the equator distant
from each other, for the oblique ascension of the 0’s
8 is 246° 58', frotn which subtracting theoblique as
cension of the horoscope (as given by Argol) there re
mains the Q’s distance from the 7th house 2° 58'. If
the O remained upon the cusp of the 7th house, the arc
of direction of the Q and the horizon would certainly be
the same ; but as his distance is 3°, there is no reason
why, at the same time, the direction of the Q to b ’s 6
and the horoscope to his 8 should both arrive to
gether.
And as to the 9’s ascension 64° 34’, it is uncertain in ~
what manner that was taken ; for b ’s ascension 94° 4‘2,
is the descension, for the ascension of his 8 place is
274° 42', from which take 180°, there remains the dc
scension of r, 94° 42'. But the oblique ascension of
the 0's 8 is 246°58', from which subtract 180°, and it
gives his descension 66° 58' ; therefore the calculations
of Argol are unintelligible. . i
_' _ '“Z'w:1~~-- :;‘-“:*'1'w
193
In thisnativity there should ascend "1 L50 43’; and
the Q becomes altogether a powerful signiﬁcator of life,
and was ﬁrst directed to the 6 of 5‘ , but as the A of
'2‘ followed about the beginning of It’s terms, the native
was preserved; then he came to the 6 of 1;, whose
latitude was P 39’ .south, and passed through, by a
latitudinal distance, accordingto the doctrine of Ptolemy,
“ When the moderator and occourse have not the same
latitude.” '
The place of the direction was likewise in the terms of
2 , and the Q at that time was in I: of ’11. in mundo from
the medium caeli, all which proﬁted the more, as the 0
in the nativity was conjoined to 9 in her house, and
within the terms and mundane A of 1;; therefore he
escaped the 0, also to the 6 of 5, yet, I think, not
without a great detriment to his health, and that 3 hav
ing descended below the horizon, and in an equal pro
portional distance which the Q hath from the 7th house,
the Q entered into its mundane parallel at the time
of his death, being found within the orbs of 3‘ in the
zodiac. _ - ‘
Also, the O, by converse motion, came to the pa
rallel of' I; in mundo, having passed by y , who was
found, under the same parallel of the enemies, and
the D in the 1: of 3., whereby a complaint in the
head was pre-noted, without doubt the more grievous, as
the I) in the nativity was in the mundane g of Q.
The calculation of the Q to the mundane parallel of 3
direct direction:
PRIMUM MOBILE. “ I
As the semi-diurnal arc of the Q . . . . , 7h 12'
To his distance from the 7th house 7° 34
D d
I.
194 PRIMUM momma.
So is the semi-nocturnal arc of 3 . . . 4" 34'
To his secondary dist. from the 7th house . 4° 41
The oblique ascension of 3's 8 . . . 265 34
Whence his prim. dist. from the 7th house is 26 9
which being added to his secondary distance is 30° 50'
for the arc of direction, and being equated as usual,
produces 31 years, almost.
By converse motion the 9 came to the parallel of b
in mundo, thus calculated: '
As the semi-diurnalarc of I; . . . . 7“ 24’
To his distance from the 7th house . . 34° 55
So is the semi-nocturnal are of the Q . . '4h 48
To his secondary distance . . . . . . 22° 89
The oblique ascension of the 6’s 8 is . . 246 58
\Vhence his primary dist.'from the \Vest is 7 33
which, as he is above the earth, and posited below, must
be added to the secondary, and makes the arc of di
rection 30° 12’. From this example we are taught
carefully to observe the places of the occourses, for, if
. the fertunes assist, they preserve, and more particularly
in their terms, as it happened in the preceding direc
trons.
For the secondary directions, I add to the hour and
day of the nativity 30 days for so many years, and 18
hours for9 months, and I come to the 12th of June,
1590, nearly, in the meridian, in which the places of the
planets are these :
l
PRIML'M mommi.
‘ 0 l) b 14 8‘
De.n .1: 112 n
Lon. 20.40 16.45 18.12 8.10 ‘26 45
Lat. 4.36 1.55 1.42 0.5
Where you see the Q is between I; and 6‘ ; § con
joined to 3, and both unassisted by any of the beneﬁcs.
In February, 1621, the lunations \happened in the meri
dian angles of the nativity, in the 0’s 0 with the pa
rallel of 3 . The progressions for full 30 years, depend
on the 14th of October, 1592 : For the 9 months I add
9 or 10 signsh and come to the 4th or 5th of November;
for we are not certain of the day he died : this is certain,
that on the 4th of the said month there happened a new
1) in 11° n1. To the middle of February, 1621, 3‘ was
found in 11° 131,. ‘
\ n\~.
196 ’PRIMUM MOBILE
EXAMPLE' XII.
LEWIS, CARDINAL
ZACHIA.
I March the 19th, 1557,
9 h. 15 in. P.M.
J‘N
LATITUDE 44°.
l1; .
'0 .
LATITU/DES. DECLINA'I'IONSTi
7;..2018'N. 9°56N.
u . 1 55 N. 13 45 s.
3 . 0 13 s. 8 4s 5.
Q . o o s 28 N.
g . 1 0 S. 4. 21 N.
§.~.234‘S. 6 98.
) 5 ~0 S. 15 o N.
P_BIMUM momma. 197
HE was made a Cardinal in 1626, on the 19th of
January, aged 68 years and- 10 months; and died on,
the 30th of August, 1637. - ~ I i '
For which eﬁ'ect, Argol directs the horoscope to the
D of the 0; whereas, the one is not aphazta, nor the,
other anareta; for the O is conjoined to 9 , and in her
declination, to which the 1) applies by a fortunate A
ray, she also makes application to the :1 and declination
of '11. , being constituted in his terms; so that to the Q
she transmits none but fortunate qualities. We, therej
fore, in imitation of Ptolemy, make the D hyleg, who
is pasther ﬁrst dichotome, in her increase, approaching
nearest to the fulness of light, constituted in the ninth
house, and between beneﬁc rays.
-She, in 70 years and 5. months, which the native:
liued, arrived at the parallel declination of g , that of I;
succeeding nears 18° of Q, without the assistance of they
beneﬁcs. '_I ﬁrst look for the arc of direction, which is
due for 70 years and 5 months: the 0, in 70 days and
10 hours from the birth, comes to 11 17°, whose right
ascension is 75° 52’; from which subtract the 9’s
rightascension, 8°, and there remains 67° 52’,'the arc of
direction. The D ’s declination, 15°, answers to 19° 35'
ofSL in the ecliptic, whose'horary times are 17° 30’,
her right ascension is 122° 40'; this, subtracted from
the right ascension of the medium cmli, gives her dis
tance froin the 10th, 22° 42’; the pole of the ninth
house is 18°, which produces the D’s pole, 12°, under
which the oblique ascension of her 8 is 305° 57_', to
which I add the arc of direction 67° 52', and the sum
198 PRIMUM MOBILI.
is 13’ 49', which in the same table of oblique ascension
is near 18° of 'Y‘, with latitude 1° '28’ north, which
the )) obtains there ; so that she passed a 18°, with
1° 28' south latitude, thc declination of which place is
8° 26'; but the declination of 6‘ is 8° 43'; but the in
minaries, as! have mentioned in another place, do not
wait for a true and intimate declination, by reason of the
magnitude of their bodies. '
I By converse motion the 1) came to the mundane i: of
3, and I; thus computed, the declination of 3 is 8° 43',
answering to 7° 40’ X in the ecliptic, whose nocturnal
horary times are 16° 25’; the right ascension of 6‘ is
339° 56’ ; his 'distance from the imum cazli 14° 34’; the
D ’s declination 15°, answers to 19° 35' 61, whose horary
times are 17° 30', which gives her secondary distance from
the 7th house 15° 34'; the oblique ascension of the p ’s
8 under the pole of the horoscope is 317° 38', from
which subtracting the oblique ascension of the horoscope,
there remains the 1) ’5 primary distance from the seventh
house 82° 16’; from which subtracting the secondary
15° 34', leaves the arc of direction 66° 42', near 1° less
than that above taken 5 the )) had also, about two years
before, arrived at the 1: of 1; by converse motion; but
as she, in the nativity, was very fortunate and strong,
these directions waited for the approach of the direct
directions.
This example also teaches us, what the sentiments of
Ptolemy were concerning a violent death: when in a
peremptory place both the enemies meet together, it is
to be understood, that in the nativity the violence is
sometimes ﬁrst pre-ordained from the unfortunate posi
PRIMUM MQBXLE. 199
tion of the aphteta; at other times quite the contrary.
But because the direct direction happened to be in the
terms of y , the sickness was attended with a delirium
and lethargy, so that you may perceive this to have been
the true cause of the native’s death.
It may be asked, why did not the multiplicity of evil
aspects, as the 6 of I; , the 8 of 3‘ , and their preceding
parellels, kill? I answer, because the 1) was in a dif
ferent and distant latitude from that of the maleﬁcs, and
had the declination of 9 and the Q ; and was supported
by [the * of 1;, both in the zodiac and in the world,
in the terms of 2 ; the 1) was likewise fortunate, \and
strong to resist. Lastly, there was the parallel of § , who
is of the nature of 11., on account of the sign and mun
dane A of at and parallel of 2 ; so that § was entirely
propitious. For which reason, he was the author of the
dignities in the native, as we have calculated in Canon
36, and shall hereafter add; for neither the 9 nor medium
cueli had any aspect with it in the 59th year, nor with
9, who being combust, could not effect any thing,
except only predispose the G, by being present with her.
The secondary directions to the time of death are thus
calculated. For the 70 years I add _70 days; and for
the 5 months 10 hours, to the day and hour of the na
tivity; and I come to the 28th of May, 1567, with
19" 13', P. M. at which time these were the places of the
planets 2—- i
200 PRIMUM moms.
o 1) s u a e v a q
_ De. uh :: It! .2
[iii]. 16.30 26.68.54 28R5
N. I ' N.
Lat. 4.82 2. 4 1.50
The '1) had the same declination as b, and both
malcﬁc in the nativity, the 1) had likewise, by direction,
. the same declination ; this place of the p ’s 8, y en
tered on the day he died, and 3 , too, not far distant;
the Q in 11 17°, which I; entered from a parallel decli
nation on the day he died; and on the contrary, the O,
on the day he died, entered the place of b of these
motions.
The Place: of the Planets on the day of his death, the
30th of August, 1637.
o D b 14 a a - y 52
_ Dcrg. ym W 14 e St mz 51 w
o __
Lon. 7.3 10.44 19.23 7.16 16.88 20.42 28.38 24.80
On the 19th of August there was celebrated a new
' 1) in 51, 27°, when she was in 3° south latitude,
nearly, whereby she obtained the declination of the
maleﬁcs, and near the 8 of the 3’s place of the se
condary direction. “’e look for the progressions to the
day of death, as follows: For 60 years I come to the
._ Inns—S
numm mourn. 201
20th of March, 1572, but I go 55 days back, viz. to the
24th of January, when the 1) is' in 11 8°; afterwards“!
advance 10embolismical lunations, and come to the 14th
ofNovember, by positing the D in x 27°. For the 5
months the 1) goes over 5 signs and 12°, so that she is
posited in "31 9° upon the maleﬁcs of the nativity.
Planets Places in the Progressions.
Q ) b '11 8‘ 9 § 53
Des t "11 "1 'v‘ r:
of
Lon. 15.0 9.0
l'? 3 l§l
21.14- 21.10 1.0 ‘28.50 27.0 15.0
Mars was, therefore, in. 8 to the D of the nativity;
1, on the day he died was in the parallel of the 0's pro
gression; and on the 13th day, which was that of his
sickness, there was a r: of the p with the 0 ; the latter
continued in S], 21°, in the t: of I; ’s progression from
:5 21°; and 3 was found upon the D of the nativity,
and 1) in the :3 of the place of the D ’5 right direction.
In 59 years the Q came to the * of § , not only in the
world, according to the calculations in Canon XXXVI,
but also to his alt in the zodiac.
Of the O.
Right ascension ' . . . . . _. 8° 0'
Distance from the i'mu-m cmli . . 42 38
Semi-nocturnal arc . . . . 5h 47
Crepusculine are subtracted . . 1 44
Remains the obscure arc . . . . - . 4 ’3
Re
203 nust momma.
Of a 21°.
Right ascension . . .. . . . . . 48° 33’
Distance ab inmm ecelr' . . . . . . 83 ll
Semi-nocturnal arc . . . . . 4" 41
Crepitsculine arc . . . . . . . . 2 7
Remains obscure arc . . . . . . 2 40
Hence the secondary distance is 28° 4', which sub
tracted from the primary, leaves the arc of direction
55° 7’. The secondary directions to 58 years, 9 months,
and 20 days, are made on the 17th of May, 1567, with
hours P. M. 4“ 33', in which the planets were as
under:
0|. .|..|.|.|. .
hepnle nlalrrlulzam
a ‘o '
Lon. 5.30 In. 0 8.30 |sartso| 2.5.0 [26.24 0.14 1.50
S. N. N. S. N.
ILat. 2.30 2. 5 1.51 0.19 0.44
‘ The Q is in exact biquintile of it and A of the ).
On the 18th and 19th of January, 1626, the lumina
ries were in an alternate A ray to these places, and as
was in the same sign and degree, viz. A 29°, with the
biquintile to the place of the 0’s secondary direction.
On the 12th of January, 1626, there was a full ., the
O in 1:9 22°, the D in 23 22°, in favourable rays .to g!
and the place of the 0's direction, and '* of '24 of the
progressions, and the Q in the quintile of It’s radical
’PBIMUM MOBILE; 208
place. The progressions are made on the 19th of De
cember, 1571, in the following position:
0 D T; 1J- 8 9 i! 8
Defs Pr -'= m X A k? I St
0
Don. 8.0 23.0 13.14 18.10 3.20 90 20.0 so
The Q was joined with g ,, and between the quintile
and * of it, in the parallel of Q ; on the 19th of
January, 1626, 2 was upon this place of the 0, 1; was
separated from the * and applied to the quintile of the'
0’s place of the progressions, which things are well
worth observing.
mmva momma.
EXAMPLE xm. 4
141 T5 -
_D0.‘IIINIC‘K. CARDINAL v
GYMNASQUS.
uly the 19m, 1551,
2 h. 15 m. P. M.
N,
LATITUDE 44°.
LATITUDES. DECLINATIONS
1, . 1° 14' S. 16° 2' s.
11 o o , 22 21 N.
a . o 17 N. 5' s N.
G . o 0 19v 2 N.
g 1 42 N. 10 o N.
y 4 o s. 14 12 N.
D 0 51 N. 11 31 s.
-— “Mn—:1“, - r- W _ I
W "
PRIMUM MOBILI' 205
WHEN he was 52 years and 10 months old, he was
created a Cardinal, on the' 9th of June, 160-1. His
death happened on the 12th of-March, 1639, aged 87
years, 7 months, and 20 days.
Argol directs the horoscope to the p ; but the mo
derator of life altogether pertains to the 0, who, accord
ing to our calculation, carne to a parallel of t, ’s decli
nation near 13°, with some minutes, of the sign "1 e
the 0 does not reach the cusp of the 9th house, but his
distance therefrom is 2°: the polar elevation of the 9th
' house is 18°, therefore the 0's polar elevation will be
near 17°, to which the oblique ascension of the (3’s 8 is
313° 37' ; the oblique ascension 13° of a is 35° 35', from
which subtracting that of the Q, leaVes the arc of direc
tion 81° 58‘, which, for the equation, add to the 0’s
right ascension, which is 127° 34', and the sum is
209° 32', answering to P 40' of m, to which the 0,
from the day of birth, arrives in 88 days, so that the 0
had not yet exactly reached the declination of b I; but
as, by reason of the-magnitude of his body, he did not,
by his _centre, gainthat, declination, yet a part of his
body entered it. '
By converse direction, the 0 was in a mundane pa
rallel with b under the earth whilst both advanced by
the motion of the prbnum mobile, which is calculated
thus: The Q’s semi-nocturnal arc is 4" 42’ ; the semi
nocturnal are of r, is 71‘ 4’, which I have taken with
13° 47' of m in the ecliptic, or with :: 16° 13’, which
is the declination of I; ; I add these arcs together, and
@055 vermin ironies."
I
they make llh 46'. The right ascension of I; is
322° 52'; this I reject from the 0’s right ascension, in
order that I may have their right diﬂ'erence below the
earth, and the remainder is 164° 44’. I now say,
As the sum of the semi-nocturnal arcs . llh 46'
is to the semi-nocturnal arc of b . . 7 4
so is the right ascen. ditf.of i, from 0 164° 44
to b’ssecondary distance from 4th . . 99 10
The primary distance of b from the imum cali is
18’ 13'; which, subtracted from the secondary, gives
the are of direction 80° 57', less by 1° than that above
taken: this parallel precedes, and the other succeeds.
Lastly, the Q, by converse direction, applied very close
ly to a u of the p , whose declination is 13" 23’, which,
reduced to the ecliptic =L ,2: 24° 30’, whose semi-noctur
nal are is 6h 55'. The 0’s semi-nocturnal arc is 4" 42';
the oblique ascension of his 8 327° 1'; his primary
distance from the west is 75° 56’ : the D’s right as
cension is 329° 3' ; her distance from the imam coeli
is _12° 2’. Then
As the 11 ’s semi-diumal arc . . . . 6" 55'
is to her distance from the imum cali . 12° 2
~ so is the 0’s semi-noctumal are . . . 4' .42
to his secondary distance from the west 8° ll
But the 0’s primary distance from the west is 75° 56',
in the oblique ascension of the 0's <9 is 327° 1';
therefore the primary distance added to the secondary,’
makes the are of direction 84° 7’. Now the n was}
besieged between I; and the mundane parallel of 8 , who
was elevated above her from medium cmli, and co
asccnded nearly with 7;, and continued in his house,
rmmm mourn. 907
terms, and triplicity, so that she was afﬂicted with the
nature of the maleﬁcs. To the same time the 9's direc
tion to the west agrees, with the addition and sub—
traction of the degrees formed from the interjacent stars
and rays, a calculation whereof is given as an example
in Canon XXXVI“. The secondary directions are
made on the 14th of October, 1551, with the hours
17° 35', P. M. at which time the planets were posited
thus :
®)bu62§a
\
Defs- "1 8 = $1 In t m m
0 --_
Inn. 1.0 7. 0 15.94 ‘1. 7 16.83 17.20 19.10 3317
' S. S. N. S. S. 5.
Lot. 4. 1.14 0.10 0. 1 S. 0 9.85
The progressions depend on the 19th of August,
1558, with the planets posited thus:
0)Tz1189-§8
Des-nmua'n‘rontv
of ‘—
LOII. 5.13 18.0 25. 4 3.18 13.50 22.0 21.30 91.4
S. S. S. N. S. N.
[AL 2.10 2.28 0.52 0.16 1.40 1. 7
, He died on the 12th of March, 1639, 10 hours, RM.
under this calculation of the planets :
208 rs'rmm Mom 1.1.
0)Bua‘9!e
Deg. x n 1 l u x r: r
_ of
Lon. 22.13 25. 0 14.13 5.46 ‘6. 0 28.40 23.16
S. S.. N. N. S. N.
lint. . 0.11 0.51 0.55 0.22 1.23 0.10
On the 4th of the same month there was a new 1),
near the 8 of 3 of the nativity, and 6 was in 8 1° in
8 to‘the Q’s secondary direction: 6‘, on the day he
died, reached the place of the p 's secondary direction,
and :1 of the 9's radical place: the Q, by the secondary
direction, had gained the declination of the D of the
nativity, and the 1) to the c3 of the o, with the same
declination. The Q by progression had nearly the same
declination with the p in the nativity; the D , by pro
gression, was between the rays of the enemies, and un
der the parallel of both the unfavourable planets, to
which,'on the day of his death, I; and 3; being con
joined by a quadrate ray, transmitted their mischievous
qualities; and, which is worth observing, that the lu
minaries,with b anareta, were, in the nativity, in ﬁxed
signs, and in them also they were constantly found in
the secondary directions, in the progressions, and on
the day he died, as Were likewise § and 3 .
In his 52d year and 10 months, the 0 was directed
_to his own *, the medium ca-li to his quintile; the
calculations of which are easy. The secondary direc-_
tions are made on the 9th of September, with near
ramvtt Moittmt.i 209
221 30‘, P. M. at which time the planéts' w'ereas
under: ‘
u a 2 at e .
as Q "1 m "2
26-20 6.0 16.6 21.56 21.52 10.26 92.10 5.18
0 .
D .
:1" m
Lon.
V '3‘
11 it
TheG was in al: to it and in 6 with ﬁ, free
from the enemies. ' The progressions were thus, and
are made on the 27th of October, 1555, whilst the D
was in 'Y' 5".
_ o ) b 11' a 2 § ~ 12
Def. "1 ‘Y‘ ‘V‘ "1 I m "1 n
0
[.00. 13.15 5.0 7.17 13.50 26.4 0.0 3.20 15.21
The Q was in 6 with at and Q , free from the ene
mies, near the A of it in the nativity.
On the day of election, which was the 0th of June,
1604, the planets were as under 2
’-~
G 12 ‘11 8‘ 2 t! 8
Deg-n "I t 1‘
0t _.
Lon. 18.20 17.14 11.46 19.18 12.25 28.28 2.6 see
V
I? h 51 ,3
There preceded a new D in 7° of n, under the :l: of
the 0 of the nativity, and parallel 1t , inwhioh ps- ~
. F f
210 rnmtm MOBILE.
rallel the Q was on the day he was elected; and the p
in a A of u of the nativity, and in 6 in the progres
sion. Hence is plainly evinced the great power the
secondary directions and progressions have, together
with the active and passive ingresses, to the places
which the luminaries by these motions arrive at.
-1I-I-_
EXAMPLE XIV.
Cardinal Pita.
~lurl~
BORN
January 8th, 1583, ‘
23-!!- 35 m. Pd M-v ‘
JNIHF
LATITUDE 440.
mu MUM momma. 21 l
LATITUDIS. ,
I; . . 2° 1’ S.
11 . l 37 S.
8‘ . 3 27 N. '
g 1 m s.
§ 1 8 S.
) t . s as N.
IN the 19th year and a half of his age he was elected
1. Cardinal, on the 9th of June, 1604; and in the 56th .
year and a half he died of the gout and consumption,
June the Int, 1641, to which time Argol'direets the as—
cendant to a c: of b , though he is in the shortest ascen
sions, and the 0, not the horoscope, becomes a powerful
signiﬁcator of life, as he is found in the supreme angle,
and the rays taken in the zodiac to the angles are alto
gether as nothing, as we have in another place demon
strated. _
The 0, therefore, is the signiﬁcator of life, and in 56
years and a half he comes, by right direction, to the
mundane parallel of 3 , followed very closely by a pa
rallel of 5’s declination, and, by converse motion, to
the parallel of 3. The Q’s semi-diurnal arc is 4h 28’,
his right ascension is 290° 51', from which, subtracting
the right ascension of the medium cali, there remains the
‘(3’s distance 6° 16'. The semi-noctumal ai'c of 8 is 5b 3',
and is taken from a, 21° 30’, to which the declination
of 3 14° 25' is reduced ; whence the secondary distance
of 6‘ from the imam cali is. 7° 5', and added to the
primary, which is 49° 35', (for the right ascension of
3 is 154° 10’), makes the arc of direction 56° 40’,
212, "must moans.
which, equated as usual, is 56 years and a half. The
0's polar elevation is near 5°, under which his oblique
ascension is 292° 54'; to which, if we add the arc of
direction 56° 40’, the sum.7 is 349° 34', which, in the
table, is equal to x l_8° 101, whose declination is 4° 42',
and that of 1; 1° 40’; so that the 9 applies, within 3°,
to a parallel of 7; ’s declination. '
The Q, by converse direction to a mundane parallel
of 3 , is thus computed:
As the semi-nocturnal arc of 3 . 5' 3' -
is to his distance from the imwm coeli . . 49° 35
so is the 0’s semi-diumal arc . . . . 4‘ 28
'to his secondary distance from medium coeli 43° 51
which, added to his primary, makes . . . 50 7
for the are of direction; so that it had preceded near
seven years before. i
Also, by converse motion, the 0 had passed the
sesqui-quadratc of I; in his 49th year. The semi.
diurnal areof I; is 5} 54’, distance from the East ll°46’,
the 9’s semi-diurnal are is 4? 28’; whence arises his
secondary distance 8° 54', which, added to the primary,
makes the arc of direction of 0 to the c} of I; , by con
geaso motion, 15° 10’; to which Iadd the 9's triplicate
horary times, which are 11° 9‘, and it makes the arc
o£ direction of. the Q to the sesqui-qusdnte of 5,
48° 31“ i i
The secondary directions are made on the 6th of
March 11“, P.. M. 1585, at which time the planets are
posited in the following manner:
PRIMUM MOBILI 218
G l )4 B 74 8‘ 9 ‘1 8
0125- x t a 1 v -a 5!, tr x "t
tit“. 5.50 [11.30 0-._1 3.35151R 21.40 11.0u 17.5;
s. ‘ s. N. , N.
Vat. ‘ o. 2 1.41pm 4.0 k } 3.54
The progressions are made on the 3d of August,
1589, for then 56 and a half embolismical lunations
are ﬁnished, at which time the planets were thus po
sited:
O I) 1? 1L 3‘ 2 it 52
D2? $1 3 r! "12 111 SL 81
hlxm. 10.37 13.22 12.0 18.0 14.11 1220 a. 9
. S. S. N. S. N. 8.
km. 5. 0 ‘2. 1 1. 1 1. 7 0.51 0.50
On the lat of June; 1641;, the day of his death, the
plannts were thus posited:
o 1 1 r, u a 2 y r s;
11 x >x :: m 9.15 a m
Lon. 11.5 heme 111.46 112.1 13.14 21.1 11.50 10.2?
Lat. Figs 1%? L0.510 1:113 :21
In which his worthy of adniiration, that the Q, on the
214» ' ".1st MOBILL
day he died, was posited upon I; of the progression,
. and I; on the same day upon the 0 9f the secondary
direction, the 1) upon § of the secondary direction,
who had the declination of b, and the D likewise
gained the declination of b. In the secondary direc
tion, the D being likewise in c: of 3 , and in his de
elination.~ In the progression, the 0 was in in, and
declination of 3, and the p in the 8 of 3 . On the
day of death, 3 transited the 8 of the Q of the nati
vity; and there was a 1:1 of the p with the Q the pre
ceding day, viz. the 31st of May, the p continuing in
x 10", and the Q in n 10°, obnoxious places. You
see, Reader, what a multiplicity both of the active and
passive agreements happened ; they are altogether won
derful. At 19 years and 5 months, the time of his be~
ing made :1 Cardinal, the Q was in the mundane parallel
with 9 , whilst both were carried by the rapt motion of
the primum mobile; the 0 likewise came to the declina
tion of 2 : the calculation of this latter is easy. The
declination of 2 is 18° 9’, equal to .1.” 9° 20’ in the
ecliptic, whose oblique ascension to the 0's pole 5° is.
313' 24', from which, subtracting the (D’s oblique
ascension, there remains the arc of direction 20° 30’,
which, for the equation, add to the 0’s right ascension,
which is 290° 51’, ﬁnd it makes 311° 21', answering to
8° 54' of :::, to which the o, from the day and hour of
birth, arrives in 19 days and one-third nearly.
The Sun’s direction to the mundane parallel of g is
as follows: .
The declination of 2 is 18" 9', equal to .1“: 9° in the
ecliptic, whose semi-diurnal arc is 4"_ 47’, the right
~
PRIMUM MOBILE. ' 2.15
ascension of 2 is 315° 58': therefore, the right difference
between the 0 and 2 is 25° 7'. I then say,
As the sum of the G and 2 ’s semi-diurnal arcs 9h 15'
is to the 9’s semi-diurnal arc . . .7 . 4 38
so is the right difference of the Q and 2 25° 7
to the 0's secondary distance . . . 12 8
which, added to the primary, makes the arc of direc
tion 18° 24'; therefore, it had preceded two years, in
which the native had shewn himself deserving the ho
nours conferred upon him. But as the 0 continued,
by right direction, in at; 9° 20’, he applied to the,quin
[tile of 7.; in the zodiac; at the same time the medium
cmli had reached the_quintile of at, whose declination
. is 8° 33’ ; ascensional diﬂ'erence 8° 21’: the semi-diurnal
arc is 98.21 ; the ﬁfth part of the same are is 19° 40',
- which \should be the distance of u from the horoscope
when posited in the quintile to the medium cwli. The
oblique ascensioncf at in the horoscope is 16° 16’ ;
from which, subtracting the horoscope’s oblique ascen
sion, there remains his primary distance under the ho-‘
rizon 1° 41'; this, added to the secondary 19° 40',
makes the arc of direction 21° 21’.
Lastly, the 0 applied to a ate of u in mundo; for,
As the 0’s semi-diurnal arc . . . . 4" 28’
is to its distance from medium cmli . . 6’ 16
so is it’s semi-diurnal arc . . . . . 6h 33
to his secondary distance from 12th house 9° 12
The oblique ascension of the 12th house is 344 35
The oblique ascension of it to the pole of
the 12th house 33", is . . . . . 19 1
therefore, the primary distance of It. from the twelfth
t 16 9111111111 Momm.
house is 34° 26', from which, subtracting the secondary
distance, leaves the arc of direction 25° l4', whereby it
appears evident that the'Q and medium caeli were, at that
time, found between several aspects of the friend]y
planets. The secondary directions are made on the 28th
ofJanuary, 1585, with 9h 35’ P. M., under the follow
ing sidereal constitution :
0)
O D 7? u 9 § 8
Def. :1: W ‘Y‘ ‘Y‘ 9. X 3': "'l
O
Lon. 8.40 18.8 2.0 Q7381 28.4011 6.13 16.0 20.0
N. S. S. N. S. S.
Lat. 4.1415.7 1.3! 4.0 1.17 2.0
The progressions for 19 years and 5 months fall on
the 5th ofAngust, 1586, the D being in °I‘ 15°; and
the rest as under:
0)t»|11.1'2 1 9i
De-st'Y'BIaIQBMISL 1:
01“
Ian. 12.1 15.0 2.4614.19.6.50 2.41 4.3512036
I
On the 9th of June, 1604, the day of election, the
planets were found in' this position :
o 11 i b' 11 a 2 y 12
Dev. 11 m ' 1‘ 1; as a as 111
L011. 18.20 11.14 11.46 19.18 12.25 28.28 2.6 5.29
'_~‘ * ~ **h F, '
R ix“ 41 A;
PRIMUM momma 217
“There you see the o in A to his place of the secondary'
direction, and in * to his progression, applying to the
* 'of '1; of his'secondary diketiotis, and in parallel'
of at’a declination of theprogression. _ Jupiter, on the
day of his election, entered in A to the 0’s progres—
sion, and, also, both the maleﬁcs I, from the A, and
3 from the * ; there preceded a new» 1) in 7° of n
in exact h of the (9’s secondary direction, and it to his
progression.
This cannot but be convincing.
r
v
21$ "mum MOBILE.
EXAMPLE xv.
1 ANTONIO, 1
Cardinal Fachinetti. ‘
BORN
é March 1011:, 1575. '
21 h. 45 m. P. M. \
NI
1,. 1°90'N.
1t..o4N.
3. oaN.
.s 2..120$.
y...asN.
)- 4489.
PRXMUM moans. 219
WE are told, by Argol, that this Cardinal had a dan
gerous illness in the 7th year of his age, owing (as he
says) to the direction of the horoscope to the 3 of b ;
but we say, it was from the 9’s direction to the D by
converse motion: for the D ’s pole is 16', to which her
oblique ascension is 352° 48' ; this subtracted from the
6’s oblique ascension 0° 7', leaves the are of direction
7° 19'; fer the D was in the n to 3,, by which means
she assumed his nature. The 9, also, by a right di
rection, afterwards fell upon the mundane sesqui-qua
‘ drate of b, whence a long sickness was the conse
quence, which was of the longer duration from I; being
in the western angle; for thus we have the true causes
from thereal signiﬁcator of life.
At the age of 16, he was elected Cardinal ; from the
9’s direction to the quintile of 1;, in the zodiac, the 0’s
duplicate horary times are 30°, his oblique ascension to
the pole 18° of the eleventh house is 0° ', and his
distance from the same house is 3° 41’ ; the pole of the
twelfth house is 33°; the difference then of the poles of
the eleventh and twelfth houses is 15°; therefore, the
0’s pole becomes 20°, to which his oblique ascension is
8°; the quintile of 1; falls in 19° 41' of W, whose ob
lique ascension there is 15° 20’, from which, subtract
the‘Q’s oblique ascension, and there remains the are of
direction 15° 12' ; which, being equated, denotes l6
years. This direction is differently calculated in Canon
XIX.
He died in May, 1606, and, according to Argol, from
the )"s direction to 3 ; but it was impossible for the
220
p to be hyleg, as she was under the 0’s rays, going to
the occultation; and as the nativity was diurnal, the
ﬁrst place belongs to the 0, who remained in the ele
~(renth house, and came to the 6 of 3, where the
sesqui-quadrate of I; in the zodiac exactly coincided,
and, by a converse motion, the Q came to the mundane
parallel of the D, whilst both were carried away by the
rapt motion of the primum The oblique as
cension of 3 to the pole 20°, is 27°-38’, from which,
subtracting that of the 0, makes the are of direction
27° 3l’, which, added to the 0’s right ascension,
makes 27° 39', answering to '7' 29° 45', at which the
Q arrives in near 31 days; and, as 3‘ was in north lati~
tude after the 6-, it followed his parallel ofdeclination.
The calculation of the 0’s parallel with the D 'is thus
computed: the 0’s semi-diurnal arc is 6“, and that
of the 1) 5h 23', for her declinatiOn. answers in the
ecliptic to near 5° 30’ 'of x. I, add these semi-diurnal
arcs together, andthe sum is 11‘123'1; the D’s right
ascension is 349° 48', that of the 0’s 0° 8’~; from this
of the Q I subtract the l)’s,_-and their distance, in
right ascension, is 10°, 20'.: Now say, as the sum of
the arcs llh 23' is to the semi-diu l are on 6“, so is
their distance, in right ascension, 10° 20‘, to the (D’s
secondary‘distanee from thedme'diumcmlil 5° .22"; his
primary is 33° 42’; from which, taking theseconidary,
‘there remains the are of direction '28" 15'.
The 0 also applied very closely tothe mundane U of
I; , by converse motion. \ '
The secondary directions for 31 years and2 months
are made on the llth of April, 1575, with near 2
PRXMUM momus.
PRIMU'M mount. '22!
5118111161:
. ,rss'r' _ it 1 iv; a
o l'» ' a 1t a s e
DQfs- ts \ ts 1‘ 25 B
O —- . m~
, Lon. 1. 019.19 19.16 4.35 26.14 11.86 29.39 429.14
4101115, 1?. M., the planets remaining in the following
S. N. N. S. N.
1.48 1.118 '0.07 0.8 0.30 1.47
Lat.
The progressions are made on the 15th of September»,
1577; whilst the p was in-.,the last decanate of m, and
the stars were disposed in the manner following :
o lit 11 a‘ s s 53
Defs- a 11 kr- "1....112 St "11 <v~
. Liin. Eaimo 24.40 20.40 iono- 28.0 12.8
.; n- 4.", v ‘ .
To the middle of May, “1606, the time the native
died, there wasfaci 'of the luminaries, with this cori-‘
btriie'tion of__ thd stars :
I
.Iu-_
III-
a-
.— 1 . .. .
. i
1" Q “1) “Fl 11 a s a 8
Deg. a ‘thr x *1 e L- "I
9 .
Lon. '240 24.0 7.40 0.0 8.0 18.20 12.0 as?!
__ _ ' R R.
i' The ingresses of the l'timiriaries,were the pin a to
i the-place of 3 and Q in v(S .iIl.IhB secondary direc
jons; b in c: of the 0’s progression, who was there
i
222 Palm»: momma.
in the c of 1,, and the o, by progression, came to
the 8 of his place in the nativity, with a. :1 of b, as
we have said, and was, in the return of the year, in the
same a ray to {the place of the Q unfortunate. i
*'
EXAMPLE XVI.
f
94-2
\ /\
'-" o
72* t L9“ 5’ v ‘3“
0 “f x: ‘t, $e
8
6/)!" ' '
i-r’ D.
' norm 1; "* .
tanuary let, 1537 ‘
9h. 23m. P. M. 9,",
184
-z
A
~' I,
LATITUD! 45°.
PlthUM MOBILE. 223
LATITUDEh. DEQZLXNATIONS.
b . . 1° 54’ N. 11° 31' N.
u 1 20.5. s 51 N.
a‘..oss.'10'sos.
o.-.-o~o 11 sos.’
2 . 1 16 s. 10 is s.
it ...0_50 s. _ _ ‘
.)~ .-,. o :11 N. 23 54 N.
HE died, April 16, 1602, aged 65 years, 2 months,
and 15 days. This nativity is among the seven exam
ples which we have extracted from Maginus; and to
65 years and 3 months which the native lived, we have
shewn that the 1; , by direction (who is hylcg), accord
ing to a right motion, came to the ﬁxed star Cor Leonis,
and to the parallel of declination of a and the. Q; but, ,
according to converse motion, to their 1: 3 which di-_ '
sections ought, doubtless, to be esteemed suliiciently
powerful to infer a fatal sickness, especially in an old
man. Now, after having well considered the matter,
we add that the p, by converse motion, came to the
mundane parallel of 5, by exact calculation. Maginus
takes the :1 of b to the horoscope in the equator, and
Argol, to the same, adds the antiscion of 8, both
neglecting the I) being the signiﬁcator, having dignity
of life. The calculation of the D’s direction to the
ﬁxt'star Regulus, and parallel declination of the O and
8,‘ is as follows : The D ’s declination is 23° 54', ascen
sional difference 24° 26', semi-diurnal arc 114° 26’, the
third part of which is 38° 9', the pole of the ninth
. W- * \.\,_._~.-—~:'-\
"raﬁlinllm u-__.-~-l'l-—'- “‘ “ - “ -
QM ' ‘ anuu Morita.
house is 18°; the D’s right ascension is 83: 38', her
distance from the medium cmli 10° 24"; therefore,
I ' n. In.
As the third part of the semiftliiimal are ' 38 0 i
is to the pole of the ninth house , . r . _ ._ 13 0
so is the )‘s distance from the medium cmli 10 1
toherpole........ ’40
To which the oblique ascension, of the~ D ’s 8 is 265°
25': the oblique ascension of the 8 of Regulus in that
place is 326°. 54’ ; from which, ’subkactin'g the former,
leaves the arc of direction 61° 31', which, for the equa
tion, I add to the 9’s right ascension, which is 314°
13', and it makes 15°- 4'41', answering to 17-" 4' o? 1r, to
which the Q, from the day-of birth, arrives in 65 day
and one-third, and points out 65 years and 4 months;
of his life ; the D in that place had 4° 32' north latitude,
and, consequently, her declination was 18° 3', the 0’s
declination was 17° 20', and that of 3 18° 50’,' the )3
was therefore between the declination of the Q imd 3'.
Again, by reason of the magnitude of the Q and D’s
bodies, and, also, on account of the parallax, the D had
already gained the 0’s declination, and \vasdeclini'ng
from that of a , who, being combust, did not discover
_ his eﬁ'ects; but the 9, instead of him, according to
the opinion of Cardan. I The converse direction' of the
) to the mundane parallel of I; is thus: The semi
diurnal arc of I, is 100° 58', his right ascension 157°
30’, his distance from the medium caeli 68° 28', the
)_’s semi—diurnal arc 114° 26’; whence, if 100°58' give
63° 28’, 114° 26' will give 71° 56', which is the )_’5 se.
rmmm momm- '225
condary distance from the medium caeli, her primary
is 19" ;_whipch, subtracted, gives the are “direc
tion 6191321“--- we; _
'The D’s direction to the :1 of the O, by converse
motion is thus computed: The 0’s semi-nocturnal arc
is 1060‘56', distance'from the imum call 40° '1 l‘, the
D's semisdiumal arc is 114° 26’,- which gives the p ’s
secondary- distance-from the-seventh house 43°; the
oblique ascension of the 11’s 8 is 288°; from which,
subtracting the horoscope’s oblique ascension, the n ’s
primary, distance from the seventh house becomes
103° 58' ; there remains, therefore, the arc _of direction
60° 58’. The secondary directions are made on the 27th 4
of March, 1537, 15k 32' P. M. at which time the
planets were pesited in the following manner :
l
o) as as § aj
-De‘g-3em rm'jvr.‘ xf.u. s .-n.
0
Lou, 170 4». 1:31 15.17 2857' 26.18 0 14-15
s.
W N. Nt-i-s, ~ 8. » N. s.
Lat. I, 5.11 1.50 ‘1. ,5" 0. s 0.49 2. 0
. 1 ’
I Then». and y inlaneract diametrical 3 had the de
clination-of I), both there and in the nativity. The
progressions. to the day ,of his death were. as follow;
For 651% theyarepﬁnished on the, 25th of April,
kite, tth 3» Icontiriuingll in]; 27° ;>t:or two months
and ahalt‘the 'p pioﬁtduili: 1 17", May l, 1542.
1...}, 1: |'i 'I‘Q'H ‘J- hi 2'.
Hh
I _ .
a ' I A ‘
‘0 ~ - _» . . ' ‘ L ' ‘
a“b'ak£ai__~m s ~”-~._p-sr--e~ . _ ’A _,.»- - -
L
226 uimuu “0311.3;
.d .. e1
o 5 b u a 2 “I! a
088- 8 t m- "11 m n 11,- X
Lon. 20.41 17.0 4.28“, 19.13K alBR 15.08 7.16“ G.”
s. N. P N. s. N. N.
LII. 5.0 2.55- 1.45 0.5 4.5-1 0.29
Ark
It is remarkable, thzit ﬁll the planets are here retro
grade,_and, 21:0, at his death, at \Ivhich time they
abound with dieeases; on the l'6th of April, 1602, the
day he died, the stars rerhaihed inhthe following mari
ner: . . . .
# li/.-l ',\; 'ul v\“ I |~
O ) b l ‘11 6‘ 9 if 8
Deg. ‘Y‘ .1“: "l "11 'Y‘ 8 I
of 4 —‘ ,'
Lon, 25.45 13.40 “18.17R‘ 16:22 a. R 18.16' M 4R 16.57
_ I ‘ "s. N. ' N. N. N. s.
Lat ' -‘\_l_4.11 9.56 2. 4 s. o 1.0 2.41
l ‘ a m +11
There was a full Q0 on the 6thaof April, the G) re
maining upon his own place of the secondary direction.
Therefore, on the day he died, ’3} ﬁltered from a c: the
placeof the 1) ’s direction iii‘ the zodiac’: and was po
sited in 8 with nearly the same declination, b in 8 of
the 0's progressiort'; the Q, by} progression, chme' to
3\, and its owxrpgrallel; the), on the day he died,
waé posited in‘a, pdrallehnear the D of 1, and a of the
progression; 7; , on the same day, was in a parallel of
.211
gamma moms 927
the Q’s declination of the nativity, and of the place of
the D ’s direction in the zodiac.
On the 13th ofDecember, l583, when he was 46
years and near 1] months oldyhe was created a Cardi
nal ; the o, by right direction, came to a parallel of “It's.
declination in 8 22° 35', which is the declination of 1|
2° 57'. . ' , : . - ,
' 0fthe6, . v
The semi-nocturnal! areis ; . . i- 7‘ "7’ '
'Crepuscnlinearc . . pa .1.- . l 48' ‘
Obscurearc- . . .' i . .- o . 5 24
Right ascension . I. . . . . . 3M" 13
Distance from theimum earl? . . .7 40 ll
Of x 22° 35. _ :
The semi-nocturnal arc is . . . . 6“ [‘1'
Crepusculine arc . . . . . . . l 39
Obscure arc . . . . . . . . 4 32
Primary distance from the imum 0021i 79° 10
Right ascension . . . . . . . 353 12
The secondary distance is, therefore, 33° 44', wﬁh,
subtracted from the primary, leaves the are of direc»
tion 45° 26', which, added to I the 0’s right ascension,
which is 314° 13', makes the surn 359° 39', answering
to 29° 30' of x, 'at which the Q, from the day of
birth, arrives in 48 days; but the effect anticipated this
. direction 8 months: If, however, the place oi 1!. be
true, as to longitude and latitude, or otherWise, because
the lumirmrhes are usually antecedent of the
magnitude of their bodies, in the directions to the pa
rallels, as is seen in the other calculations, ' for the Q, 3
\
228 PMMUM mourn;
years before, had, by converse direction, arrived at the
at: of 9 , therefore, the difference of 8 months is but
small. The horary times of 2 are 16° 37', her distance
from the sixth house 1° 38' ; i for the oblique ascension
of the 8 of 2 is 152° 24'; the 0's horary times 'are
17° 49’, whence arises his secondary distance 1° 45'
from the imum cwli, and, added to the primary, makes
the arc of direction of the O, by converse motion, to
the 'se of 2 in mundo 4195GT. The secondary direc
tions for 46 years,. 10 months, and 10 days, are made
on the 9th of March, 1537, with‘tih 12', P. M. under
this constitution of the heavens: 1
!'
QDb'ua‘ssn
P?LX'X~W~V X nort'n
0
rm 29.0 '4.sol 2.40 20.52 14.20 4.30 14.0 15.50
The progressions for full 47 years depend on the 10th
of November, 1548, when the » was in tr 10°.
' Therefore, one sign 24°, for the one month and 20
days, must be subtracted from the aforesaid place of the
1), who will then be in :16", and the rest disposed in
the following manner: ’ I ‘
'L
0 D b u 8 9 y 8
thg. m £5 51, W as ‘m ‘7‘ ' '
o .
.IDD. Q41) 16.0 22.2 28.8 10.56 17356 5.45 5.0
it
~l.
tivity.
225
On the day of election, December 13, 1583, the Stars
were thus posited :
nan MOBILE.
. 0 1t 5 1L 6‘ 2 It 8
De'g- t t X x t 1'! .t t
0 .
~ 13.4 11.0 110.4 25.24. 7.6it t0.28R 11.46
There had preceded a full 0, the 0 being in 3 7°,
the p in 11 7°, under theA and.* of ll. of the na
You see, that the Q, on the election day, was in the
exact A of u of the secondary direction, and applied
to the A of the same in the progression; and, on the
contrary, it, on the same day, was in A to the 6's
progression, and applied to ‘the same of the secondary
direction, which, indeed, is worthy of admiration. Add
to this, that 2, on the day he was made a Cardinal,
was in ale of the )7 in the secondary direction, and the
p , on the same day, was posited in Av of i of the se
condary direction, for he was a very learned man.
In the secondary directions the D is inst of 9 ; in
the progression, in A of 9 5 which gave famous and
1good ofﬁces of friends; the Q, on the day of election,
was in 'I' of 2 of- the progressions, and in the A of
§ of the secondary directions. '
L
..l
m gnu-um uoaugq
~ EXAMPLE XVII.
J‘N
BORN
the 4th, 1654.,
10 h. 27 m. P. M.
"I
union. ll°. -V - 5 mun”
"; .yni.
- Maw
l' ‘ ‘ATITUDH. " ' ' DESI-HAWKS
r,..o°es'N. area'an
u..o42N._ 1959N.
8 . . 1 26 N. 15 42 N.
G . o o a 21 34 s
g . 1 9 s.
g o as s. 2‘ 4 s.
) . . 5 S
0 S. ‘ 6 25
Puma“ mount. 48!
HE died, May the 26th, 1616, aged 52 years, 4
months, and 12 days, at which time the 1;, who is
moderator of life, as being the conditionary luminary in
the centre of the horoscope, came, by right direction,
td a parallel of b 's declination iii m, 15° 48', where she
is iii)“ 53' south latitude,fthe'ldeclination of which
place is 20" 20’; a parallel of '1']. succeeds, but be
cause there is, at the same time, a mundane parallel of
'3 to the D, and she, by _'a converse- motion in c: to
6‘ , a; could be of no's'ert'ice; The p ’s direction to
‘ ‘the parallel'of' I, 'is this calculated : The D ’s declina
tion is 6° 25‘, which, in the ecliptic, answers to 15 I6“,
whose nocturnal horary times are 15° 55', which,
doubled, make 31° 50’ ; the p’s oblique ascension in
the horoscope is187° 51‘, from which there remains
her distance from the east 5° 51‘; the pole of the se
cond house is 30°, therefore the difference of the poles
of the ﬁrst'and second is ll°.‘ '
fftherefore the doubleherary times of the b ' 31h 50
gives the polar difference of the 1st and 2d 11° 0
the p's distance from’the east . '. . .' 5 5}
'giv'es..'. .'..2 0‘
and there remains the 15’s pole 39, to which pole her“
oblique ascension is 187° 28'. i ' ' ‘
vThe oblique ascension of 15° 48‘ oflm, with 3° 33'
south latitude, is 239° 32’, from which, subtracting
the n’s oblique ascension, there remains the are of
direction 52° 4', which, forthe equation, add to the
Q’s right ascension, which is 295° 47’, and it makes
aw
gr:
-'
q.
1;".
1%‘5-0‘
‘\F.
am"
I!
".'.'
mason
~
arse-1","
.
(a;
'WW
“WL_
\
a
-.-.=#
-:u'qu‘
ifle-I'
"R"-
_
_PRIMUM MOBIL!- I
347° 51', answering to 16° 45' of x, to which the Q
arrives in 52 days and a quarter, which denotes so many
years" , '. 7 $1: ' ' '.1
' The D ’s right direction to the mundane parallel of 3
_is thus: The 1) ’s'semi-nocturnal are is 6" 22', its dist
ance from the east 5° 51"; the obliqueascension of the
8 of 3, [taken- in the horoscope, is 229° 32!; from
(which, subtracting the oblique ascension of .the horo
scope, there remains the primary distance of 6‘ from
the west 47° 32’. p. . .. 1 _ - .
Therefore, as the, 1) ’s semi-nocturnal are ‘. 6" 2_2'
is to her'dist'apce from the east ;. l_ .1 . 5° 51 ‘_
sois 3’s semi-nocturnala‘rc, . I... .5 . 5h '8 _
‘. to hisseepndary distance from the west . 4° 38 ,_
I which, added to the.primary, as this is under the earth,
and the other above, ‘, makes the are of direction 52° 10’.
The p at .the same time came, by'a converse motion,
to the :1 of 3. _ .
As the semi~diurnal arc of 3‘ - . . . . 6h 57’
is to hisdistance from the westv . . . . 47° 32 i
so is the D’s semi-diumal,arc . ,_ . 5" 38
to her secondary distance from medium cmli 38° 32
Her primary distance from medium is_ 90° 16’, for
her right ascension_is 182° l6’; subtracting, therefore,
the secondary distance from theiprimary, there remains
the are of direction 51° 41’, I fThe secondary directions
are made onvthe 25th of February, with 191‘ P. M., the
D remaining in 8° of m. . .
1.; 4'
l
PRIMUM MOBILE'
O ) ‘2 1t 8‘ 9 § 8
Dofg. x mz 122 n "r V P!
0
Lon. 110‘s» 28.56 ,Q8.2l_4.16 4.551 2.16‘ 4.16
Q38
The progressions for 52 years complete, fall on the
'_19th of March, 1568; whilst the I) continued in 1*,
19°; for 4 months and a third she came to 8 9°, on
the 30th of the same month, when the planets were in
the following position:
o D b u s s Q 52
[212;- w- ts "It 1‘ 1m x ‘Y‘ a
Lon. 19.50 9.0 22.46 8.13 20.32 6.34 20.35 15.9
S. N. N. N. N.
Lat. 2.2 2.38 1.14 2.23 1.30
0
On the day he died, May the 26th, l616, these were
the places of the planets :
o D b it 8 2 l s 83
Deg. 11 A s 1 a s s x
[grin 4.58 7.15 4.27 26.9 5.58 2.50i-‘197 13.57
s. s. N. s. s. 4 5.
List. 2.2 ’23 1.9 0.10 1.3 3.5
The 1) Was in the secondary direction, in 1:1 to 3 5
11
234 ' PamUM “01311.11;
and, on the day he died, the G) entered the place of 3,,
and in CI to the D. The Q, by progression, leaving
the parallel 'of 77, applied ,to the C1 of a ,ith was in
8 of' the Q’s place :of the nativity: on the same day,
I; and 5 entered upon the D’s progression; the 1),
likewise, on that day, with the declination of I; ’5 pro
gression, goes to the 8 of the Q and B of 3’s pro
gression; but what is most important, is, that the Q,
on the fatal day, entered upon a" in the secondary di
rection; but, from the 9’s situation, the times of the
effects are ﬁrst principally deﬁned, and then from
the D . i
In the 4lst year and two months of his age, that is,,
in 1605, Argol says he was dangerously ill, and lays
down the manner of his death, by supposing it to be
from the ascendant directed to the D of It ; but we say,
from the 9 to an 8 of 3. The D’s oblique ascension
is 187° 28’ to the pole 39°;v and the oblique ascension
of the 8 of 3 is 228° 36'; from which, subtracting
the former, leaves the arc of direction 41° 8', which,
equated in our way, denotes 42 years, though the effect
was very slow; if only the place of 3 be true, for
other tables place him in 3 9°, but the difference is but
triﬂing; and if the direction is made to the 8 in the
zodiac it will he found to precede. The I) also, by a
converse direction, reached the mundane parallel of 6‘ .
As'the semi-diurnalarc of 3 . , . . 6h 57‘ -
is to his distance from the west . . . 47° 32
so is the semi-diurnal arc of the ) . . 5h 38
to her distance from the east _ . . . . 38° 32
which, added to her primary distance . 5 51
makes the arc of direction . . . . . 44 23
'rmmm momma. 3935
- But, if this ﬁgure be altered one degree, this direction
agrees nearly. _
The secondary directions fall on the 14th of February,
1564; the 1) remaining in M 13°, that is to say, 141‘
27', P. M. At his death, 3 was found in m 18° upon
this place of the 1) , she being in 3 to b, and in the
declination of 3 of these motions.
The progressions are made on the 5th of May, 1567,
whilst the 1) was in ‘Y‘ 10°, applying to a , he being in
717' 15°, and in the same place at his death; the 1),
therefore, had arrived at the 8 of her radical place.
On the 5th of March, preceding his death, there was a
full Q in "1 14° upon I; of the progression, and in pa
rallel there of 3‘ , according to the doctrine of Ptolemy,
'in the_last chapter of his 4th Book ; and, that you may
not look upon this as a dream, if'you observe, in these
examples, the equal progression now commonly used,
you will ﬁnd little or no agreement between them; so
that you may perceive they are altogether false and
useless. -
In the 41st year, when the native was created a Car
dinal, the medium cmli, having stopt ﬁrst at a 6 of 14,
came afterwards to the biquintile of '11, who assumed
the nature of 11. from that biquintile ray, and partly of
2 from the parallel of the declination. s remained very
- strong in the centre of the imum carli, 'when the satel
lites of the luminaries were very fortunate, the 0 of 2 ,
the p of 14 from the is. The declination of l! is
24" 4',ascensional diﬂ‘erence 22° 50’, and semi-nocturnal
arc 112° 50’ ; the ﬁfth part of which is 22° 34’, and,
doubled, are 45° 8’; the right ascension of § is 270°
9,86 PRIMUM Momm.
22’, whence his distance from the imum cdli becomes
1° 38', which, subtracted from the geminated ﬁfth part of
I; ’s semi-nocturnal are, there remains the arc of direc
tion 43° 30', which, equated in our way, denotes 41
years: but, if the nativity be increased 1°, as aforesaid,
the time agrees exactly. Argol places § in 8° of s: a
in this he must certainly be mistaken.
Moreover, the 0 had arrived at the sesqui-quadrate
of u by a converse motion: the oblique ascension of
it, to the pole of the eleventh house l6°, is 120° 43’;
the oblique ascension of the 0’s 8 to the same pole is
109°2l'; this, subtracted from the former, leaves the
(3's distance from the 8 of 1 11° 22’. The 0's ho
rary times are 18° 19’, which, triplicated,- are 54° 57’;
and as the distance of the sesqui-quadrate ray from the
8 are the triplicate horary times; from this, therefore,
subtracting the 0’s distance from the 8 of 1;, leaves
the arc of direction 43° 35’. The secondary directions
fall on the 14th of February, 1564, when the Q was in
the exact biquintile of 74, and the D in A.
PRIM'UH MOBILI
EXAMPLE XVIII.
<9 s»; l“ ‘* >1 ~ a
“3(\ ea 0‘ q?
a I? ° s t
I as ' I'AiZRICIU§, %oe8\ -
we“) Cardinal Vuosptua. '12_ :61 i
$< norm >L:
a March 6th, 1572, , “
35!? 12h. 12m.P.l\‘-L ,9 _
?m\‘;o _
‘f \\
as"
I“ #391,: I“
if“ I’ll» we
is? 99w 1.9 A
5“ V
L M
currents. nzcum'rrom.
T) . . 2940' N. 14° 2' S.
at . . 1 1 S. '
3‘ . . 3 28 N.
0 . . 0 o
g . . v0 34 s. e ‘
\ § . 2 46 N. ' ' ‘ t
D - 8 8 N. 30- 0t 8.;
238 rnrutm momun
HE died, January 27, 1639. The», in this nati
vity, possesses the horoscope, and, as she is the condi
tionary luminary, the signiﬁcation of life belongs to her.
At the time of his death, which happened when he was '
66 years and ten months old, she came, by a right mo
tion, to a parallel of 5’s declination, and, by a con
verse motion, was in a mundane parallel with him;
whilst both were carried away by the rapt motion of the I
primum mobile. Lastly, she came very near the 6
of 6. t ‘ ‘
Argol directs the ascendant to the A of 6‘ , who is
in a sign of long ascension; she, therefore, does not
take the nature of a :1; so that the D, and not the
horoscope, is the signiﬁcator of life. The direction to
the mundane parallel of b’s rapt motion is thus calcu
lated:
The declination of 5 answers to m 7° in the ecliptic,
whereof the semi-diurnal arc is 5" 9’ ; the p ’s declina
tion is adequate to in 29°, whose semi-diurnal arc is
4" 54'. I add these arcs together, and the sum is 10"
3'. The right ascension of t, is 224° 14’, and that
of the 1) 259° 17’; the diﬂ‘erence is 35° 3'; there
fore,
As the sum of the semi-diurnal arcs . . 10" 3'
is to the semi-diurnalarc of b . - . >. . 5 9
so is the difference of right ascension . 35° 3
to the secondary distance of b from the '
medium cash". . . . . . . . 17 58
The primary distance of I; is 44° 33', which is to
be added to the 17° 58', because I: rooms from the'
PRIMUM momma. 389
ascendant to the descendant parts, and makes the arc of
direction 62° 31’, which, for the equation, add to the
0's right ascension, which is 356° 50’, and it makes
59° 21', answering to 1° 30' of II, to which the Q ar
rives in 66 days and 20 hours, which denotes the age
of 66 years and 10 months. ~
The p to the parallel of the declination of b ; the
D ’s oblique ascension under the pole of Rome is 278°
16', to which I add the arc of direction 62° 31', which
makes 340° 47’ ; I look for this in the same table, near
the end of the, sign 4:, where the ) gains near 2° south
latitude, and I ﬁnd it in .1: precisely 23° 14’, of which
place, with 2° south latitude, the declination is 15° 42’,
and that of F; 14° 2’ ; so that the ) had not yet exactly
reached the declination of I; , either because the places
of b and the ) are not yet exactly true, or that the lu
minaries in the directions to the parallels of declination -
always_ precede, as we have said, in producing the ef
fects, the true time of the parallel; or, lastly, because
the preceding directions and agreement of the other
motions were urgent, which frequently happens.
The D to the 6 of 3. The pole of 3‘ is 9°, his
oblique ascension 196° 39'; the 1) ’s oblique ascension
under that pole is 262° 32' ; from which, subtracting
the former, laws the arc of direction 65° 53’ ; so that
the 1) was but 3° distant from 3 . .
The secondary directions happened on the 12th of
May, 1572, at 8" 5‘ P. M. when the stars were thus
posited:
.
we; . . ’
~ 1»; . ~
&-*A‘_N_ ,U ., . _.__
PRIMUM MOBILE.
240
o‘ D s u a 2 n
EDeg. n n n1 ‘7‘ 1'! a: n
1.40 12.()l10.44 149.46 29.6 1.0 E; 25.30
s. N. s. N. N. s.
Lat 3.25 251 1.10 0.41 1.44 0.39
The progressions are made the lst of August, 1577,
whilst the D was in x 22%. ,
o. D b u a e s s
Bey/st xvrmzst 2: st w
ngn. 18.20 22.0 5.54 15.2- 21.59 seam 1mm 14.31
s
S. N. N. N. S. .
1.54 0.40 l. 4 0. 6 4.49 3.38
Lat.
January 27th, 1639, the day he died, the planets were
placed in the following manner:
0 D b 1t 8 2 § 8
De. : m z: 1 T :: a: 1‘
13m. 1.31 22.40 9.11 Twitter) 2.12 26.22 26.29
s. s. N. s. s. N. @1114.
Lot. .248 0.4do.s40.13t.55 0.8 {331A {1
The preceding day there was a c3 of the 1), the 9
remaining in .1: 7°, in the C1 of b ’s secondary direction,
rmmm loatm 2.0
and the 1) in 7°of in upon 7;, and with the declina
tion of his primary directions, viz. that of b of the
nativity. On the day he died, the D' passed from b’s
radical place to the i; of the Q, and 3 ’s progression 5
who, with Q retrograde, were conjoined in 8 to the
p is place in the right direction, who, in the secondary
direction, being posited in opposition to her radical
place, made the year climactericai ; and likewise in the
progression was posited in the :1 0f the radical place;
but the preceding a of the luminaries, as it happened
there in an hostile aspect of 1;, who was in a parallel
of the declination and 6 of theQ and D of the g) 5
and lastlyrthe enemies conﬁgurated to the place
'the D’s direction, who is hyleg; and a in .‘V‘ 5° from
the fourth house of the nativity, aﬂiicted the 1), in he:
radical place, it is very evident, to her it belongedtp
produce the effects demtcd by the direction of the same
to the aspects of hi. These agreements are, indeed,
truly worthy of admiration! \ l
or
I" _
Kk
242 PRIMUM momma.
EXAMPLE XIX.
1 IX __l
‘ '
say '
‘é o *’ - o I
Q‘ﬁr ’ “gar-7° cg tx ‘
Q. . '\ v0 ‘ y |
o o $ 9 \ Po q
*5» slowest - ~‘
. 1;"
e. f- Q
A” i‘ H
0 e \
e” - ll
7< _‘ no“ omit; g‘g
March the 30th, 1571, a "
P‘, 22b.49m.P.M. 1 “. .t ~ _ 1
’3 N, I ¢ .1
e ‘ Q l
)\6 LATITUDI 42°. W .5"?
P V A A V . , .
.- 191 Y!" -
\i V’
0 I Q ~ 9
I O y I ‘—
n" ‘e 1Q °
m
urn'unls. necuunrons. ,
b..2°58'N. goals.
1!. . . 0 54 S. B 5 S.
8 I s 0 0 7 46 N.
Q . . o o 1 84 N.
g . . a 41 N. 4 44 s.
Q s . 1 13 S.
) s t 3 56 S.
l'\_4—<
rntmm MOBILE. 243
HE died the 10th of March, 1621, aged 49 years,
ll months; was elected a Cardinal in January, 1592,
being at that time nearly 20 years and 10 months old.
Argol speaks of this nativity in the last edition of
“ CRITICAL DAYS,” page 184. He places the D in
a 25°, and directs the horoscope to its 0 in the 50th
year, rejecting the 0, to whom belongs the signiﬁca
tion of life; but the 1),, according to the common
Tables and Ephemeris,'is posited in 1: 25°, and then
that direction will not be the D, but the * . Now we,
in imitation of Ptolemy, make the 0 entirely aphaeta,
who, in 49 years and 11 months, comes to the mundane
_parallel of I, , both by a right and converse motion. A
calculation of the right direction is thus: The Q’s de
clination is 7° 34', ascensional difference 6° 52', semi~
diurnal are 96° 52', right ascension 17° 47', distance
from the medium owli 17° 47’; 5’11 declination 9° 6’,
ascensional difference 8" 18’, semi-noctumal are 98° 18’,
right ascension 210° 6’, primary distance from the imum
cwli 30° 6’ ; these produce 3; ’s secondary distance
18° 3' ; this, added to the primary, makes the arc of di
rection 48° 9', which, added to the 0's right ascension,
makes 65° 56', answering to 1° 45‘ of n, to which the
0 arrives in 50 days, which gives 50 years.
The converse direction is thus :
As '5 ’s semi-nocturnal arc . . . . 98° 18'
is to his distance from the imum cclt' . 80 6
so is the 6’s semi-diumal arc . . . 96 52
.to his secondary distance . . . . . 29 40
244 rumour moms.
which, with the primary, makes the arc of direction
47° 27’. But you are to observe, that the (9, when in
6 with 3, applies to a parallel of the declination of
b ; wherefore as aphteta, he denotes the corrupt qua
lities of the body and shortness of life; especially, as
from Ithe medium caeli he, by a r: ray, aﬁiicted the
horoscope.
The secondary directions happen on the 19th of May,
157 l, with 20" 49’, P. M. under the following disposition
of the stars: . ’
.- t
_ F~ ‘0 » b l 1t a 2 s Q
‘- Dig. u or Q \ >6 ts ‘Y' L At
° ' I
- Inn. 8.0 29.0 28.0 t20.30 26.0. 28.88 6. 0 M27
s. N. s. s. s. s. ‘
Lat. 4.50 2.5a 1.1a 0.2 1.23 0.12 i l
' The progressions for full 50 years are made on the
15th of April, 1575; therefore, for 49 years and 10
months, those progressions are made on the llth of
April, the 1) remaining in 5 6°, the other as you may
see under: A ,
('7 7’ h '11- 6‘ S? t! 8
Doe‘g. a5 3 ' 1‘ a. b 25 t5 8
Lon. 0.506 0 1.9.0 5 a £6.87 11.18 20.21 29.5
s. N._ _ a. s. i N. j
Lat. 1.57 1.48 0. 0 l0. 8 0.25 1.30
m
Pmawu uomui. ' 24.5
February 10, 1621, the day he died, the stars were
thus placed :
6 ‘1’1' .48'2lt’ e
. l ‘
Defg. : Q n a m v; | h [I
o .
.2211 20.88 29.68 use 11.13 remixes 10.0f
l s. s. g. N. Us. 9. - l
Lat. 3.46 0.39 0.40 1.40 0.34. 1.35
V
r..- . 4
In the secondary direction the 1) was in 8 to b, as
well there, as from the nativity: on the day of death
I; was upon 1) in the nativity: the Q, by progression,
in 8 of 5’s radical place -, the G), on the day he died,
in the :1 of 6‘ of the progression.
In the progression, the b was in the same parallel
of 5’s declination, and nearly so on the day of his
death: on the contrary; the 7) on the same day was
found upon I; of the secondary direction. And is this
not wonderful P
Before his death there was an 8 of the luminaries,
die Gin :1 18°, and the )1 in 51, 18°, in m to 3 of
the progression and secondary directions. ~
We nonutility of the common progression is easily
perceptible.
In the 2_l.st year, the 0, by direction, came to the
* of u and 2 . '
PRIMUM MOBILE
EXAMPLE XX.
GEORG E,
Prince Aldobrmtdini.
0h. 1m.P.M.
m
LATITUDI 42°.
LATITleS. DECLXNATIONS.
b . . 1° 28' s. _ 51° 3’ N.
11 . . 0 58 N. 11 59 S.
3 . . 1 55 S. 91 5 S.
o . . o o 14 20 S.
9 . s so 5.
s . s 12 S. 22 13 s.
a . . 4 11 s. 11 1 N.
PR1MUM MOBILE. 947
' \
HE died May 16, 1637,'at the age of 45 years, 6
months, and 15 days. p
In his nativity the 9 becomes entirely hyleg, and not
the ascendant, according to Argo]; for he is on the
cusp of the medium cali, and at the time of death, in
45 years and a half, came, by right direction, to 1‘
24° 50’, where he is afﬂicted by the 1) ’s scsqui-quadrate,
having, for some time before, been under a parallel de
clination of I; and J , and likewise in a D of 8‘ in
mundo, to which the Q from 0° of 1‘ applied, but, from
a 6 with 2 and the terms of the favourable planets, he
was preserved: besides, it is to be observed, that both
the luminaries were moved, by converse direction, to a
mundane c1 of r, , who in the nativity aﬁlicted the horo
scope from the 8 and theluminaries by a [:1 ray in made,
and being posited on the cusp of the seventh, he denoted
a short life with bad health, and had not 2, in exact
mundane *, assisted the 0 in its radical place, the
native would never have lived so long. Lastly, there
was an application of the Q by converse motion to the
parallel of 6‘ in mundo, whilst both were carried away by
the rapt motion of the primum mobile. The calcula
tion is thus : The Q’s semi-diurnal arc is 5h 7', 3‘ ’5 de—
clination answers to 4° 30' of 1‘ , whose semi-diurnal arc
is 4h 39’; I add these arcs together, and the sum is
9'1 46': the (D’s right ascension is 215° 58', and that of
8‘ 307° 28’, from which I subtract the 0's right as
cension, and the right difference between them is 91°30'.
Now say,
1
\
Q45 mmmr moms.
As the sum of both semi-diurnal arcs . 9" 46'
isto the 6's semi-diurnal arc . . .7 .w 5 ' 1
so is the diﬁ'erencc of right ascension . “91° 30 f
tothe-Q‘ssec. distance from medium cwli 47 ' 58
which, added to the primary, malses the arc of direction
48°‘2', which for the equation add to the 9’s right as
cension, andthe sum is 264°, answering to 24° 30' of
1 , to which the Q, from the day of birth, an‘ives in 45
days, which denotes so many years.
In this example, as well as others, is proved the mea
sure of directions which we make use of; for, if we
add to the 6’s right ascension 45° 30’, according to the
common method, we make the sum 261° 28', equal to
1‘ 22° 10', where 2 ’s parallel is, who doubtless would
have preserved him ; and as our measure of the direc
tions brings the @ farther, to 24° 30', and 9 being in
3° 36’ south latitude, she was already separated from the
0, and constituted in the terms of I; .
The secondary directions fail on the ltith ofDecem
ber 1591, with 13“, P. M. at which time the places of
the stars were as follow :
I
t.
1i 8 9 § 8
1‘ x 10" 1‘ 95
4.33 7.13 1.38 It 8/20, 6.49
Bee: 1 1:?
Lon. 24.40' 6.0 1Ptou:
N. S. N. N. ‘
0.57 0.52 1. 5 0.40
'mi"
NJ
lb u
The progressions for 45 years and a half, exact, are
museums». 949
wide 9" 3118311 0f J"13', 151951 111‘ .D.b¢iﬂ5 3“ 18° 59'
of ‘16; to these I‘addé 169 30’. for the half month, and
the I) is posited in a, 4", 30's but the rest, on the 8th
ofJuly, 1595, are as follow; '
II
o ) l b u 'a 2 a a;
Dog. as 51 S], T ‘Y‘ in '25 w'
Ltil. 15.0 430 22.45 *5. Uhoxo T13 20.0 21.56
\ N. N. s. ,s. s. N.
K 4.58 0.88 1:25 2.11 L48 1.22
\Yi’.
; On the day he died, May iii-fat“ 5’, the planete'
remained thus : of, ‘1 .
a e =-_ ~ ~
“""J
_, ,. 1c. l
o n s u a l 2 s n pl
8 i We ‘62" a a 7?"
Lon. 26.0 sad 25.1s_ emf 6:52‘ 10.40 10?; 28.3 Q
~ N. N. .N. J N. s. s.‘ ' ' -5
\ tan. a. 210. 1 1.29 0.32 1.11 .042 ' i/l .
a t. L ' - - ' .
he ngjrll at '
._ t In‘the'secondipry directions the p was with. the 3
t in 8 to 7;, and the 6 nearly in thc'parallel [of the
; clination of b \é'ttﬁd these lmninaries, by the samelsd~
c'pndary direction on the day he died, entered a similar
parallel of I; and 3‘ , \
' “l Intthe progression the o in C3 of 3 continued upon
it b’s radical place; the ) in 8 of 3’s radical place,
it eitactly : on the day of his death the Q was in :1 of 1;
hm
‘ "
L1
250 rrtmuu MOBILE.
of the progression, and, on the contrary, t, in g with
the parallel of the 0’s progression; 3 had likewise the
same declination with him; on the abOVe day the D was
found in the exact 8 of IA of the progression.
The luminaries had alternately the t: on that day, with
many other attestations of the infortunes; so that the
eﬂ'ect was not frustrated.
*
EXAMPLE XXI.
ANDREW, _
Cardinal v.Peretti. _ ‘~
’N 'ﬁm
BOB-N
PRIMUM MO BILB. 251
LATITUDES. DICLINA'I‘XONS.
r, . . 1° 59‘ N. 16° 1' s.
it . . 1 22 s. 6 as N.
3..'11as._ 2148.
Q . . o 0 es 1 S.
g..249N. sees.
1!..053N; 20275.
p . 4 59 N. ' 2 51 s.
[N this nativity, ifthe ascendant had 18° 37' of 3,
according to the explanation of Argo], we freely confess
if the 0 were hyleg, no direction of his would agree
with the time of the native’s death.
- For the direction’s are for 56 years 8 months, is
61" 15', the Q’s oblique ascension is 279°41'; to which,
if we addthe direction’s are 61° 15', the sum is 340° 56' ;
answering to ::: 27° in the same table, obnoxious to
none of the maleﬁcs.
Wherefore,” in this nativity the 0 begins to be se.
parated from the horoscope, if, to the time in the na
tivity, a quarter of an hour is added, which is probable
and likely to be true, because of the usual diﬂ'erence
betvveen the solar and civil horology, the prorogatory
dignity of life is taken away from the 0, as he has now
left the horoscope, and is transferred entirely to the
D ; which that it is so, is conﬁrmed by the agreements
of the 1) ’5 directions with the time of death, as will be
presently evident. '
The native died the 4th of August, 1629, aged 56
years and 8 months, at which time the. ) came, by a
Q52 I’ll-MU“ M03313.
right direction, toa parallel declination of 3 ; the pa
rallel of § preceding near 21° 26' of t when the D
gains 2° North latitude, and decimation 21‘? 18’. But
because about the tropics the declination suﬂ'e‘rs very
little variation ' sothat the ) , for seine preceding de
grees, participatedvof the parallel of 6‘ ; a subsequent
A of u preseryed him, and also from his 6 with the
6; but the A of it began now to cease, and the I)
entered the terms of 1,». Lastly, there was, by con
verse direction, a Mundane parallelof a to the D ; the
eﬁ'ect of this Parallel 01" 3' )to the D immediately tip
peareAl; and at the some time the D, by a converse
motion, came to the? of '6‘ '; and seeing so many
agreements on the part of the It concur, of conse
quence the signiﬁcation of liﬁe belongs to her.
-We'have said, that the are ofdirectiou for 56 years
and 8 With is 61° 15/. Now the l , in 06 days and
16 hours from the nativity, arrives at 1: 16° 8', whose
right ascension is .318" 37', from which subtracting the
0's right ascension, 257° 22’, there remains the arc of
direction, 611° 15', which is due to the doresaid years ; the
1) ’5 right asCension is 199° 31’, to which adding 6t° 15‘,
the sum is 260' 46' ; this, in. the tables of right ascen
sion, answers to 1 91° 95', under thecolumn of latitude
9° north, Which the 3' gains there, and where she is p
sited in the declinatimof ;. . it I
The calculation of the converse direction to the mitts
dane parallel of the same is thus: The .1; ’s declination,
2° 51', answers to as 7' in the ecliptic, whole semi
disrnal are is $503 the declination 01' ;, m° 4‘,
Panama moans. 838
answers to by 26°, whose semi-diumal arc is 4th 39’.
I add these arcs together, and the sum is 10" 29’. The
right ascension of 6 is 304° 35’: from which, sub
tracting the D’s right ascension, there remains the'right'
difference between them, 105° 4'; therefore,
As the sum of the semi-diurnal arcs . . 10b 29'
is to the D’s semi-diurnal arc . _ . . . 6 50
so'is the right ascensional diﬁ'erence . .' 105° 4
to the D’s secondary distance . . . . 5' 28
which, added to the primary . . . . 3 51
makes thearc ofdirection. . . . . . 62 t9
greater than that above taken by one degree; ‘so that
this direction succeeded the year, and also the 9 of a ,
if the places of the D and a be-true; '
The converse directiOn to the 3 of 3 _ is thus cal
culated : The eleVation of the pole of the second house
is 31°; but as 3 hath 1° 18' south latitude, and is 1‘
distant below the cusp, the elevation 'of his pole is 30',
under which 3’s oblique ascension is 815°; but the I
obliqueas'cension there ‘of‘the )'s g is 17'" 59', from
which, subtracting thai of' a , leaves the arc of direction
62° 50’.
Argol says; that the native was sick in the 44th year
andlahalti thisjge; at'that time the 11 came, by
conVerse motion, to a mundane m of I; ; which direc~
tion,i{‘7yduiwoiuld is time: The ﬁrst number is the
seni-‘di‘uﬁﬂhm (Sf-F; the second his distance from the
eastt by the ascension of the horoscope; the‘
thirdiathe- 9’ssomi-di-trmal are; and the fourth num
ber will be her secondary distance from the medium
254 rnmUM momm.
cceli, which added to the primary, and the direction’s arc
equated, for the 44th year and a half, is 48° 47’ ; but
-the luminaries seem very frequently to precede, in their
effects, the intimate application of the direction, espe
cially in the parallel, as has been frequently men
tioned.
The secondary directions happen on the 25th of '11- '
nuary,1578, with the hours 12, from meridian,-uncler
the following construction of the stars :
o D I: u a‘ 9 § 8
Duct;- = m m w- x x 25
Lon. 16.30 12.36 26.24 25.9 17.0 4. 0 6. 0 1150
N. N. s. s. N. N.
Lat. 4.17 2.10 1.20 0.10 2. 8 1.63,
The progressions are made on the 30th of June, 1577,
the stars in the position following: M
Defg. 23 k? W "I 23 81 $1 ‘7'
0
L0“. 17.20 18.0 8. 4* 8.50 29-58 11.49 12.94- 16.22
Lat. 4.1"! 0.461.!) 1.1} 0:40 o.i5
L
PutMUM mom“. ' 255
v011 the 4th ofAugust, the day of his death, the stars
were as under: ‘
0 ) T: 1t ‘6‘ 2 § 9
Do - 5L :2: A x n 51, up 11
[011.11.57 15.33 18At 1.10 3.40 '18.1 3.14 "-1
S. N. s: s. N. ‘3.
lim. 3.88. 2.24 0.44 0.43 1.26 2.5!,
. " s
r 1'
On the day he died, there .sas a full 0 in the g
‘ and parallel of b in the radix, and inhis place of the
secondary'directions, in which 3 was, in E1 of the Q
and parallel of the D . ' On.the same day l; was in (j of
the 0 and D of the progression, and exactly upon the
placed the D- in the radix; and 3 on that day had a
parallel declination in the place of the p ’s right direc
tion; 2 had the * to the 1) in the nativity, but was
combust. On the above day, the 0 was in an
exact parallel declination of I; of the secondary direc
tion, and the I) entered the same parallel.
You see, Reader, how various and mutual the agree
ments are, both active and passive, and yet how exact.
1n the 24th year, the time he was made a Cardinal, the
0 came to the quintile of 2 in the zodiac, near 13° 42'
of 15’, which hath the same declination with the 0 in
the nativity, the direction is easy, viz. by the right as
censions; for as many days as the O was arriving at
‘18" 42' bf be, so many years do they denote ; the num
256 anw 'Mosits- ,
be; of days is ‘34; Mementch applied at the same
time to the quintile of It in mundo, which is thus caleup
lated : -. '
the quotient is 2° 48', which, added to his nocturnal
horary times, make 16° 46', which are the 5th part of “it's
semi-noctumal are. I N '
19m?“ ‘4 to theClofthe Qin theworid thus: .
If the rotary time; or e . . . 11‘ ts’
give distance from the East _., , . 5 59
What m 74*. 1.... wt: times give '. 13 58
Answer, it’s secondary distance from the
immn carli .' . . . . . 7 2.5
The right ascension of at is 19°; whence his primary
distance from the imsz oceli is. 3° 20'; which, added' so
the secondary, makes the arc of direction of the Q to
I divide it’s nocturnal horary times 13" 58’by 5°,
theElof at 10° 45': to this I add atéth part of it’s,
semi-nocturnal arc, taken as before t6°'-t6', and the sum
is 27° 31', for the arc of direction of the 0 to the
quintile of '11 in mundo, which turned into time, gives
25 years nearly. '
In this nativity, is to be observed a very noble Satel—
lieum ofthe luminaries, particularly of the 6, who was
inthe A of it and * of 9, via. in the world to 2;
for 2 , in such a at, confers very great honours on the 9'.
See in other examples brought by Argol in the Cardinals
Lenius, Lanfranche, Borromeus; George Prince
Aldobrandine, Charles I, Gonzago'Duke of Mantua,
Dominic Molinus, Barnard Varnarins, and others.
The secondary directions are made'on December 23,
257
1572, with 77" 54', P. M. and the progression on the
25th of October, 1574, almost in the meridian, in which
theluminaries were alternately in A, and both in exact
A of It. On the 5th of June, when he was elected,
luminaries wEéjBéieéd'alternately in and wei'e
"found in A of 2 of the progression, the Q in parallel
of 51,8zc. -' 5 L g I i .
Ai'ng directs the ' iv caelii't’o the alt of ﬁ‘ﬂfor tlie
{24th year; but thepi falls in a 5‘ '46’, Whicb'precedes,
ant succeeds, the midium owli; and the right ascensioh
Eof' the ate ’of {Q't'v'YiIEFé it is taken. 218? 24', is 5° 46'
of 111,.an not as. w I, . I
'.\ A
PRIMI'M MOBILE
~
I .
1 =1
/ Argol takes the. medim'n' term the * of § in the zodiac, which
cannot be admitted, as the angles cannot be directed to wdiml
aspects. And, it this instance, he has mistaken his own theory.
~
--a.._~
,_
a“
I
_..q
.
I,
4
~A.-_
t
\
PM MUM MOBILE.
EXAMPLE XXH.
~I~~I~~I~
BORN
October the f35lll, 1558,
' _ 21h.4l m.P.M. "
’II
LATITUDE.“
. 2° 28' S.
1 5 S.
1 19 N.
0
46 N.
85 S.
anmga
HMO
nscnm'rma'a
15° 13' N.
.‘20 1‘ S.
isms.
PRlMUM “MOBILE. 259 -
HE died August 1, 1629, aged 70 years and 9 months ;
was created'a Cardinal on the 5th of June, 1596, at the
age of 37 yeais and 7 months. ‘
In‘ this nativity, which is explained by Argo], g is to
be placed in a 19.0, not 21° ; he directs the ascendant
to the Clef-b in the zodiac 3' but, as the rays to the
angles in the zodiac are rejected by us for very
plain reasons, and also by Ptolemy; and on the other
hand, the 0’s arc of direction corresponds very well
with the proper I] in mundo, whereby both the preroga
tory virtues, viz. one by a right direct motion, and the
other a converse, is 'mjured, especially by the subse
quent parallels of 7; in mumb, as will appear by calcu
lating them.
Likewise, as the signiﬁcator of life belongs to the 0,
that he may obtain this dignity, the time of birth must
he lengthened some few minutes; wherefore we add to
the given hour 18 minutes. At the time of his death
the 0 came to its own U in mundo; the calculation
whereof is easy; for the 0’s scmi~diumal arc is 74° 54',
his horary times are 12° 29‘. The Q likeivisc came by
right motion to a mundane parallel'of I; .’
As the horary times of the 0- . >‘ U .' , 12° 29'
to his distance from the medium caeli . 34 83
so is b ’s horary times . . . . . . 12 38'
to his secondary distance from the imum caeli 84 44
The right ascension of b is- 479 31' ;- from which,
subtracting the right ascension of the itqugtpmli, leaves
the primary distance of b from the imum cwli 42° 1' ;
which, added to the secondary, makes the arc of di
360 Pmmm MOM“.
rcction 76° 45’; lastly, the Q, by converse motion, came
to, the mundane parallel of I; .
For as b’s horary times, 12" 33’ is to his distance
from the imum caeli 42° 1’,_ so isthe Q’s horary times
12" 29’ to his secondary distance from the medium casli
41° 48’ 5 which, added to the primary, 84? 33', makes
the arc of direction 76" 21’. For the equation add the
'arc of direction to the 0’s right ascension, and it makes
296° 24’, answering- to £4” 29' of k9, torwhich, from the
day of birth, the Q arrives in 70 days and 18 hours,
which denotes 70 years and nine months. The se
condary dinections are made on the 14th of January,
1559, with the hours from meridian, 15?. 23’, in this
Situation, of the stars,
'0 iib‘ua'es Q
Deg.kf".t s entww‘sr
of V, .
Lb“. 24.29 1511,1735 17.35 72010.0 90.10 MAJ,
t
The progressions, forfull 70', years, are made onthe
28d ofv June, 16%, the )\ remaining iang 3"” ,J'or-the
other9 months,,we have the ) posited in. 4;. 25° 80’ g
the rest, on the 15th of_July, were as under : _
G D' '77 'll 8/ 91 § 8
Sl, '51. "R. 51. 1‘
a o , ‘ . I I . W ,r . . , ,~
1011.327 2‘5030 8.7 ZULBQ __2;.so 17.0 23.69 west ,
'1 JP But-N. ‘ Nti -N1.,;.-S.--_'
LII. _' 4'23 0.38, [0.17 ‘15!
_¢'.
muzth MOBILI- 26!
On the day 05 death, which was the 1stofAugust,1639,
the Stars were thus posited :
ol» s irate so
llqgﬂlkr sew-1* a; was,
0 -——
LOH. 95 10.0 18.99 1.2-) 1A3 14.20 3.3210411.
On the day he died, the Q entered the progression
of b, and in D of the secondary direction of 6‘;
b, the )‘s progression, and the D of the Q’s se
condary direction; a‘ a parallel of the 9’s secondary
direction. I
In 1596, aged 37 years and 7 months, he was made
3 Cardinal ; the 0 came, by a right direction, to the as
of It in mundo; likewise, to the quintile of 9, and pa
rallel of the same, by a converse motion.
The direction tothe as of it! is thus calculated:
The 0’s oblique ascension under the pole of the
eleventh house 18“, is 225° 16', from which, subtracting
the oblique ascension of that house, which is 216° 30',
leaves the 0’s distance from the eleventh house 9" 46';
therefore, it’s horary times 18° 91', will give his so
condary distance from the East 14° 21'. The oblique
ascension of- ‘tt. in the horoscope is 327° 13'; from
which, subtracting the horoscope's oblique ascension,
leaves the primary distance of u from the ascendant,
51° 43’ ; From this; subtracting the‘seeondary- distance,
the remainder is the arc of direction, 87" 22'.
069. ' ramrm momma.
If you want the direction to the parallel of 9 , by
converse motion, say, As the horary times of Q are to
her distance from the mediitm cali, so is'the Q’s horary
times to its secondary distance; and adding the fourth
number to the 6’s 'primary distance, the sum will Be
thearc of direction. .
The secondary directions fall on the Qd of Decem
ber, 1658, with llh 4l', P. M. inithe followingsitua
tion of the stars:
G D B 7-!- 6‘ 9 § 8
Dig. 1‘ "11 U 3: £5 "1 "l ‘V‘
0 .
LOB. 20.43 27.0 12.4 10.30 18.?1 28.0 98.0 15.80
The progressions depend on the 8th of November.
1561, the ) remaining in 1‘ 16°; the rest as under:
thu39§8
Deg.m1§8)(4._\1|13
of ‘
LOB. 26.30 16.0 5.50 26.33 12.25 13.0 23.0 18.41
\
On the day of election, June the 5th, 1596, the stars
were posited thus:
G) 3 B 71- 8‘ 2y i! 8
Deg. ' n e ")1 ti 5), n n ‘V‘
Lon. 14.29 5.21 2.4 0.4 0.31 23.31 3.18 10.22
PRIMUM Moms. .263
On the day of election‘the Q was posited in A of
'1; of the secondary direction, and A of 2 of the pro
gression. On the contrary, 2 , on the day he was
elected, was posited in the A of the 9’s progression,
and in the as of the. )’s secondary direction; and
the O in A of 2 of the nativity, there was a new
) on the 26th of May, in 11 5°, in A of it’s radi
cal place and secondary direction; the ), on the
5th of June, was upon 8 and in A of'at, of the nati
vity, 8:0.
964
C3
'
\
mmva Mom“.
I ,.
PLE XXIII. >
EXA‘
M A R G O T I U S,
Cardinal Lanfranchi.
Septembgr 12th, 1559,
22 11.11111. P. M.
m
unrsz 44°.
LATITUDIS. DECLINATIOUS.
. 1° 54' S. 19° 33' N.
. . 0 56 S.
2 48 S.
O 0
2 11 S. 18 20 S.
. 1 19 S.
- .. 3 II S. 16 35 S
- v
_‘ ~~ "' ——- -~.~v_-»~'
- — - - _ __ ‘ _ ‘ v
“mm Manna. ' 965
“H'E'died the 30th of November 16! l, aged 52 years,
Qmonths, [0 days. He was sent for in 1606 from
Naples by Paul V, to be secretary to his grandson,
Cardinal Burghesus. He was elected Cardinal on‘ No-"
Vemher Q4, 1608. ‘ i ‘ ‘
Argol, in this nativity, as usual, directs the ascendant
for the native's death ; but the 9 is undoubtedly hyleg,
who, according to our method, fallson a parallel‘de‘dil;
' nation of the ) ; 2 and I? followingimmediately after}.
and what is very remarkable, the 9 With that ‘declina-i‘
tion, 16° 35’, found the declinationzof'Syrns, Aldeharsi‘n,’
Cauda, pand’vcry nearly Crit- Iiéoiiis," foh'r ﬁxed stats ‘0?
the ﬁrst magnitude, of s hot‘a'nd’ destructive nature.‘
I have found, by 'observttti‘od, {that't'his tiecli‘natitii'ifisi
possessed of a4 great force and virtue ;‘so that if
signiﬁcator obtains that declination, the signification'is
thereby greatly increased j "good 'with' the if benign, "(and
evil with the malignant. I have observed that man;
that declination gives acuteness to 'the mind‘and under
standing; ‘9 ,"a‘ desire for luxury and pleasure; 3, a'n-‘
ger, madness, boldness, temerity, &c. "“
The G with itlris.'declination causes a warm pesti
lential"ai_r;_ heibring's back the heat of stinim—dr'abotn
the hegrnnin'g of Nq‘vember; and, when conﬁgurated
with the'maleﬁcs, rais'es storms at sea, spoils the fruits
and wines, and produces on the earth vermin to destroy
the seed. \Vith ’the beneﬁcs, the contrary; he puriﬁes
the air, maltes it productive, increases the buds, 8:0,;
so that" there seems to be great power in the declination
of those stars. ' '
Nit
s
266, rmmm MOBILE.
But his very evident that this right direction of the
l / was alone sufﬁcient; for in the nativity the 0, who
is hyleg, was surrounded by the enemies by both mo
tions ; in the zodiac, it applied very near to the E] of 3 ,
and in mundo, by converse motion, to the E] of b , and
2 only, of the beneﬁcs gave any assistance by the mun
dane as, \vhereby she conferred great dignities; never
theless, she being unfortunately situated in the sign
m, her detriment, and under a parallel of I; ’s declina
tion, who is in the western angle, where he is gene
rally the cause of diseases: what 2 denoted shewed it
only to be corrupt, sickly, and of short duration. The.
b,directed to the A of ‘11., both ways, and. d of 21,
conferred very great honours on the native, and unex
pected: he did not seek for honours, but sought for
toibe promoted. ,But as the beneﬁcs were with violent
ﬁxed I stars in the nativity, after the 0 had passed
through the rays of the favourable planets, and decline}!
to the parallel of the maleﬁcs, the native died.
‘ But I am of opinion that the secondary directions,
with the other motions, contributed greatly to his death,
as we shall observe.
The calculation of the Q’s direction is thus:
3 The Q's-pole is 16°, his oblique ascension there is
179° 18’; the oblique ascension of in 15° 40', in which
the n ’s declination 16° 85’ falls, is 2%" 4’, from which
subtracting that of the 0, there remains the are of di
rection 48° 46', which for the equation add-to _the 0's
right ascension, which is 179° 24’, and it makes
{2*28? 10’, answering'to 20° 40’ of m, to which the Q,
ramrm mount. 26?
from the day of birth, arrives in 52 days, which. denqges
.52 years- nearly.
:The secondary directions are made on the 4th of NO- -
vernber I559, three hours P. M.
' ) b u a 2 a a
H X :1 10“ m x
10.54 4. 1 27.40
. S. S. S. N.
2.1 1.20 3. 1.
You see that the G was exactly in a parallel of the
declination of 6‘ , the ) in sesqui-quadrate of I, , theQ
lilcewise remaining in a parallel of b . The progressions
fall on December the 2d, 1568. -
\ 0| n 7:" u 0' 2 I y a
gag-1h} smla altlt w
Lon. 20.1|22.o 4.ss| 6.59 21—| 16.18 |25.21 8.49
s. N. N. N. N. N.
La. In 0.18 0.30 0.48 0.37 1.30
November 30, 161 l, the day he died, the stars were
posited in the manner following:
268 PRIMUM MOBILE.
min :3: tw
) 1, 1t 3 9 y l 9
Deg-1‘ 1* x 9- ml‘ m‘ln
of
Lon. 7.98 21.55 29.38 95.33 20.35 43618.56 10.45
Ln. 3.4-6 1.6 0.3.2 o. s; axis will
The Q, on the day he died, was posited in 8 of b 's
radical place, and in 8 of I, ’s secondary direction ; the
1) upon ii, and in D of his secondary directions and
progression ; I7 , on the same day, was in D to the 0's
secondary direction, and upon the 1) in the radix, and
3 uponthe Secondary direction of the G), and § in 6
with him near the place of the primary directions, and
ingof the p ’s‘ radical place; on the day of his illness,
the Q was upon the place'of the primary directions, and
the ) in El of 6‘ ’s progression.
Thus you see a intttual permutation or the ingl'es
bions. " ' 1 " '
rnan MOBILE. 260
EX AM PLE xxtv.
January the thh, 1587
0 h. 45 m. P. M.
J‘J"
urn-rm: 42°.
unwowew
LATITUDES. DECLINATI'OIS.
. . 2°35' S. 7°ss' N.
. . 0 31' S. 1'
. 2 as N 1 21 S.
.. . o
. . 0 18's.
1 Q6 5. ‘
e '9 N. r 2:, a,
276 rttmtm Momma.
HE died the 3d of September 1651, aged 64 years, 7
months, and 20 days. >
'- \ He was created a Cardinal on July 17, {634, It the
age of 47 years and 6 months. '
Argol takes the cause of his death to be from the ho
roscOpe, directed to the u of I), omitting the Q, who
is undoubtedly hyleg, and in the\64th year and "a half
Y comes, by right direction, to the parallel of); in mundo,
land in the zodiac to the declination of 3 , having, by
i converse direction, some years before come to the cusp
g of the 7th house. i _ _|
Q The‘direction'to the mundane parallel of I, is thus
3 calculated. - i,
l
The 0’s horary times are 11‘ 29'; distance from the
.medium‘qtzli 11° 20’; the right ascension ‘of I, is,
i24° 54', from‘which his primary distance from the 10th
‘ is79° 53'; horary times 16" 10‘ ; from which there arises,
in the fourth place, his secondary distance from the
c.le 15° 57', which, subtracted from the pri
? mary, leaves the are of direction 68° 56', which, for
‘tthe equation, add to the 0’s right ascension, which is
'QQS°41’, and it makes the sum 557° 37', answering to
=97°Q0’ o x,to which the 0, from the dayof birth;
arrives ' 65 days, which denotes so many years.
Th/ch house is elevated 17°; therefore _
its the 0's double horary times . . '22‘ 58'
s to the elevation of the 9th . . . l7 0
so is the 0’: distance from the medium v
‘-\cali..........ll20
totheQ’spole-. . . . . _. . 8 0
lg ramuu nomus. 271
To which, the- oblique ascension of his <9 is "0° 29';
to which I add the are of direction 63° 56', and the sum
is 174° 25’, answering to 24° 15' of 111, in the ta
bles of oblique ascension; so that the 0 had arrived at
X 24° 15', whose declination is 2° 18’, and that of 3‘;
1° 2l', if his place is true by longitude and latitude;r
therefore, the 9 applied to his declination within one
degree, and the luminaries in the directions to the pa
rallels, always anticipate their eﬂ'ects, as is seen in all
these examples. Thee, by converse motion, had;
departed from the west, and .3, at the same time, was
found at the centre of the imum cali (i. e.) in a mun
dane u my to the Q; with this same ray of 3, the Q
moved successively, and continued so ; and this is worth
observing, that any signiﬁcator whatsoever, together
with the others-stars, whilst they are moved by a com .
verse universal motion, change the aspect alternately,
and, consequently, the mundane rays, as it likewise
happens when they acquire parallels which we have ale
ready calculated. - .~. a v ;
But, because this happens insensibly, and such rays
so acquired are-generally lasting, _we have not, for a
long time, laid. down a method to calculate them in the
Canons, but any one may, from the tables of the
houses, know the time of acquisition, and duration of
these ra-ys. As, in this example, the Q, posited in the
west, with k? 225, in‘the imum cwli, are found 5: 2°;
andas the rays, thus acquired, are of a long continu
ance, they denote a certain universal disposition of the _
things signiﬁed; either good or bad, according to the
nature of the aspecting stars, as it happened to this
‘5; .ﬁ -A _.____-_-.-———
iii semen Mont-1:1.
Cardinal; who, some years bePone his death, ‘was always
sickly; and this observation is Wenderfnl in the changes
of the times and weather; for this principle Ptolemy
adhered to in the Almajest, lib. viii, chap. 4. This doc
trine he mentions in the Second Book of Judgments in_
the Chapter on the Nature of Events.
> But, to our business; the secondary directions fall on
the 17th of March, with 16" 5' P. M.
0 its u a
D. 25 0'
(ﬁx, 8 J "I;
Ian. 26:30 0.4. 0.46 5.30 mitten.
S S S N
Lat. alo ado 04's 3.5;} 5.30; .
The Q was found in 8 of 6‘ near his primary direc
tion, under the 'declination of 5‘ of the nativity, the p
in u of 6‘ of the nativity,- and, therefore, the 6 with
him of at availed nothing, nor the A ‘of 2 and § , be
cause t! had'the declinationof i; , and being upon the
D of the nativity, was rather prejudicial ; and as the I)
was in 5° south latitude, she was at a great distance
from 1‘,“ ' . .1: . . we not
The progressions for full 64 years are ﬁnished on the
i6th'of March, 1592, Whilst the ‘D lu'strates 8°‘of 8,
where her vespertine distance from did 0 is 42" nearly,
'the same as in the nativity; for the other 7 months I
add 7 signs, and 17° 30’, and come to 1 25°. Lastly,
for the 19 days, till the dayiof his death, Iadd 21°,
and the D is posited in b" l6°; the rest as follows:
mumm MOBILE. - Q7
\
0 )9 \T: '11 '6‘ ' 8 § 9
Derg. <y' H» g 1‘ g 'X X
o _-_. '
Lon. 15. 0 16. o 6.14 19.9.2 24.. o 1.4 19.0 1. 1
S. S. N. N. S. S.
but 1.18 1. 4 1.18 0.11 0.30 2. o
September the 3d, 1651, the day he died, the stars
were in the following order:
0 1! T) It 8‘ 2 § 83
Dcrg- 1'! U n t m 81 "n ‘Y‘
0
Lon. 10.36 0.1 24.41 3. 1 21.37 18.45 14.43 22.3
N. S. N. S. N. N.
Lat. 0.42 0.14 0.29 1.14 0.56 1.16
v
Onthe day he died the 0 was found with the decli
lnation of b of the nativity, and almost of the second
» ary directions, and the 1) also upon I, in the secondary
directions exact; I, in]? to the D and in U of the
9’s progression. Preceding his death, there was a full
D , the 0 remaining in an exact parallel of declination
of I, ’s radical place, and secondary directions ; 6‘ , on
the same day, obtained the declination of the D’s se
condary directions; I; Was posited in '8 of theyQ of
the nativity. You see a mptual transit, active and
passive, of I; tothe Q.
00
274 "most momma.
EXAMPLE XXV.
November 20th, 157
2 h. before Itloon.
III 'f' '
l ..
urrrunl 45°. ‘ 'M g
ZATXTUDR. ‘ DECLINATIONS.
r, . 2° 2' N; 15° 53' s.
u . 1-25 5.
a . . 1 23 s.
0 . . o o 11 45 S.
2'. . 2 s N.
.y..149N.- 16165.
) . e as s 20 as N
ritmcM MOBILE. 275
HE died November the 16th, 1635, 14 hours, RM.
aged 63 years, all but 14 days.
For this effect, Argol directs the Q to the antiscions
of T; and § ; but as these planets are in 2° north lati
tude, their declination becomes 16°, whereby they cut
the ecliptic in 16° of z, and Argol takes the antiscion
of § in 9° 10’ of .2. But we direct the 0 to :: 16°,
and then we shall see whether our method corresponds ;
for, otherwise, in this example, we must comply with
the opinion of others; viz. that the antiscions are not
to be taken by preserving the latitude as we do, but
wholly neglected according to their method.
The 0’s direction to z: 16° is thus calculated :
The 0’s horary times are 11° 6’, which, doubled,
makes 22° 12‘; the space of the eleventh house, 1115.
trated by the 0’s motion ; the'pole of the eleventh house
is 19°, and of the twelfth house 34°, the difference be
tween them is 15°; the oblique ascension of the eleventh
house is 217° 15'; the 9's oblique ascension is 254°
22', therefore his distance from the eleventh house is
7° 7'. Therefore,
As the 9’s double diurnal horary times 22° 12’
is to the difference of the poles . . . 15 0
so is the (D’s distance from the 11th house 7 7
to the 0’s polar distance . . . . . 5 0
which, added to the pole of the 11th, = 19, makes the
9’s pole 24°, under which his oblique ascension is 256°
44’; the oblique ascension there of 16° of z: is 325° 51‘, I
from which, subtracting that of the 0, leaves the. are
of direction 69° 7’, which, for the equation, add to
276 Pm M UM MOBIL!
the 0’s right ascension, which is 246° 30‘, and it makes
315° 87’, answering to 13° of as, to which the 0, from
the day of birth, arrives in 63 days, which denotes so
many years. You see, therefore, gentle reader, that
our method in this, as in all other examples, agrees per
fectly well; therefore, the numbers of Argol’s compu
tations, in this one nativity, were merely a fortunate
case that they agreed with the time of the eﬁ'ects._
The Q, likewise, had arrived at its proper 0 in mundo
two years before, for the 9’s semi-diurnal are is 66° 36';
but when the signiﬁcath does not change the he.
misphere, the semi-diurnal or semi-nocturnal arc is the
arc of direction of its properi: in mtmdo, and, by his
ray, both the prorogatory virtues are injured; viz. that
in the primum mobile and that in mundo. Lastly, the
Q arrived to the mundane parallel of the D , which is
calculated thus : The 0’s semi-diurnal arc is 4" 26', dis
tance from the medium caeli 29° 15’; the D ’s semisnoc
turnal are is 41‘ 33’, from which arises her secondary
distance from the t'mum cell 30° l'-: this, added to the
primary, which is 38° 31’, makes the arc of direction
68° 32'. .
But,vbecause the declination of the G and a is nearly
the saint, andthe semi-diurnal are of the G and semi
noetumal are of the ) the same, the 0, a little before,
was, by converse motion, posited in the D’s mundane
parallel: for
As the D’s semi-nocturnal arc . . ., a, 4" 33’
is to her distance from the sum cah' .. _. 389'31
so is the 0’s semi—diurnal arc . . . a 4" 36
to hissecondary distance . . . . - . 37° 22
ramtm menus. ' 277
which, added to the primary 29° 15", makes the arc of
direction 66° 47'. You may ask, Why he was not pre
served,_as, the place of the parallels of b and § _are
nearly follbwed, by the tie ray of '1!- and A of 2 'P I
answver, that they are ﬁrst followed by the D ray of t,
and ‘§ 3"when, therefore, more testimonies of the male
ﬁes than of the beneﬁca presented themselves, the male
. ﬁes prevailed.
Hence we are taught, that the testimonies of the
aspects may be multiplied by one and the same planet
from which the quality of the effect is augmented,
though that planet only is the cause of them; and so
in all kinds of things.
The secondary directions happen on January the 2lst,
1557, with 21" P.M.
(D 3 T? 74 6‘ Q a 8
Dcfg. "I 'v‘ X 1‘ X 5
0 ' ,
lmn.12.48 28.0 16.14 24.38 14.20 29.45 2.30 12.3
N. N. S. s. N. N.
Lat. 4.51 2.9 1.22 0.12 2.23 1.20 j
it
The 9 remains in an exact parallel of b ’s declination, .r" '
without any assistance from the beneﬁcs.
The progressions are made on the 24th of December,
1577.
278 PRIMUM nouns.
I
Q ' ) 5 11 6‘ 9 § 8
Def. 5’ '26 H‘ Q "1 1‘ 1‘ *r
o ‘—
Lon. 13.20! 0 14.20 10.56 26.55 9.40 22.0 6.50
8.
S. N. N. N. N.
5.0 0.20 1.31 0.11' 2. 9 0. 0
The Q was in 6 there with t, '; the D in their 8.
November the 16th, 1635, the day he died, the stars
were posited thus :
. Q ) 72 u 3‘ 9 § 8 ‘
De. "1 a: K? "I "l "l I 3:"
‘Lgn. aim 0.40 3.28 21.12 20. 0 14140 26.31
{Lat 13.10 01:140 0121 11:15? dis ‘ 1.856
He fell sick when the new D was upon I: and § 0f
the nativity, and died when she came to the place of
the 6’s direction, who, op the day he died, was found
upon I; of the secondary directions, and upon 6‘ of
the progressions, and the 1) was posited in their B.
These agreements are wonderful. The year was also
'climactric, because the D, in the secondary direction,
had stopped at the proper U of her place in the nati
vuy.
Pmmm momma. 279
EXAMPLE XXVI.
12 h. 27 m. P.M.
NJ“
LATITUDE 42°.
amwqua-I
LATITUDES. DECLINATIOXS.
2° 30' S. 11°16' N.
. . 0 31 S.
. 1 1 S.
. . 0 o
. . 1 11 N.
. . 3 87 S. x
. . 0 1': S. 2 s N.
280 a - PRIMUM MOIXLI. _
HE died the 12th of August, 1682, aged 44 years
and ll months. _
Argol directs the ascendant t9 the El of 3 ; whereas
the ) is hyleg, who, according to our calculation, comes
exactly to an 8 of 3‘ . The 3’s declination 2° 3’, an- '
lwers to #0 5° in the ecliptic, whose horary times are
15° 18', and, doubled, 30° 36'; the D ’5 right ascension
is 6° 32', from which her distance from the medium coin
becomes 9° 19’; the pole of the eleventh house is l7°,
whence, by the golden rule, is had the D’s pole 5°,
under which her oblique ascension is 6° 21'. The oblique
ascension of 8‘ ’s 8 is 48° 11', from which, subtracting
that of the J) , leaves the arc of direction 41° 50’, which,
for the equation, add to the 015 right ascension, which
is 174° 33', and it makes 174° 33’, answering to 8° 47'
of m, to which the Q, from the day and hour of birth,
arrives in 45 days, which indicates so many years. The‘
), likewise, near 21° 15’ of 3, came to the parallel
declination of b, where, being in 4" south latitude,
she gains the declination of I, 'l4° 16', the oblique
ascension of which place, according to latitude and lon
gitude under the D's pole, is 48° 38’, from which,
subtracting the D’s oblique ascension, there remains
the arc of direction 42° 17’. But, by converse motion,
the D applied to the mundane parallel -of- i, ', and if
there was placed on the midheaven 2° 16' of '7‘, it an
swers exactly, for the right ascension of the midlieaven
would be 2° 5’; the declination of 1; 14° l_(i’, answers
to 8° of 8 in the ecliptic, whose diurnal hora-y times
are 17° l2";\the right ascension of- r; 'is 44° 33', from
PRIMUM MOBILE. 281
which his distance from the midheaven becomes 42° 8’;
therefore,
As the horary times of I; . I . . . . 17° [2’
is to his distance from the medium carli . 42 8
so is the horary times of the . . . I5 18
to her secondary distanbe . . . . . 37 27
which added to the primary, which is . . 4 27
makes the arc of direction . . . . t 41 54
so that this direction had not exactly arrived, but, ne
Vertheless, it strongly co-operated with the other two
above' computed.
The secondary directions remained thus, November
the lst, 1587, at 10' P.M.
o D b u a i s;
“311.1 a 81.1"; e "I
. Lon. 8.35 Q60 13.9 15.22 25.20 “26.30 25.0 26.37
N! S. N. S. N. N.
Lat. 4.20 3. 3 0.13 0.28 1. 11 1t 7
Thus, you see, the O is between a parallel declination,
and in 8 to I; ; the ) nearly also with the declination
of b. On the day of his death, the progressions are
made on May 10, the stars being as under: I
' o ) I L n l a 2 s a
Doefg. 3 Q I n m l U' H ‘Y‘ 9'5
an.15.o 28.o|26.0 13.13| 1.43 0.12 29.20 18.45
I N' l
Lat. 5.0
PP
282 PR1 MUM MOBILE.
On the day of his death, August 12, 1632, the stars
were thus posited; viz.
I
o n s u a 2 a ‘e
Defs- St 25 8 a st 5]. l8
0
Lon. 19.53 10.32 22.38 24.19 11.43 9.43 19.21 2.17
z z m g 2 Z
p-a
'.is;
.t;
Lat. 4. 37 2. 0 1. 4 0. 9 1.0
The 0, on the day he died, was separated from u in
the secondary directions, and was posited in a parallel
- declination of 12’s secondary direction; and e contra b,
on the day he died, had the parallel of declination to the
secondary direction, and, also, to the Q’s progression;
and I; was upon the ) of the secondary direction. In
his sickness, the 0 was found in the exact U of 12’s
secondary direction, 6 in 8 of the )’s place in the
nativity. ‘
>‘ ’— e M _ 4‘; _ _ .m
PRIMUM MOBILE. ‘ 233
EXAMPLE XXVII.
I Octavian Vestrius,
of Rome.
{L
V
0
—
£8
August the 26th, 1576,
21 b.13m. P. M.
IN
LATITUDE 42°.
I I a,
'b
‘14.
8‘
Q.
9
y.
D
|ﬁa
Meat-'1
n as»;
PRIMUM MOBILE.
o
, 284
HE died, May the 1st, 1626, aged 49 years and 8
months. i
This nativity, as explaincdby Argol, contains many
errors, for It should be posited in 27° (not 22°), 1; in
24°, not 19°; 3‘, in 16’, not a: ; the places, likewise, of
2 and Q do not agree, but these we have passed over.
Argol thinks, and very justly, that the G is to be di
rected for life, for he is hyleg ; but he wishes he had
exceeded the '6 of 6 , then he would have been injured
by the 6 of the ) , which seems not'agreeable to reason.
Vide the geniture in his Critical Days.
According to our calculation the 9 comes to the U of
3 in the zodiac, with the testimony of a * of I; 5 but
as the as of ‘11 succeeds, it, doubtless, would not have
been fatal, unless, by a converse motion, it had come
' to the 8 of 8 , and, by direct, to the mundane parallel
of 6‘ . .
The calculation to the [:1 of 8‘ is thus: The 0’5 110-.
rary times are 15° 59', doubled 31° 58'; this, added to
the right ascension of medium coali, it makes 154° 58',
which, subtracted from the 0’s right ascension, 164°
48', leaves the 9’s distance from the cusp of the eleventh
house 9° 50'; or, if we subtract the oblique ascension
of the eleventh house, 153° 0', from the 6’s oblique
ascension there taken, which is 162° 50’, there remains
the 9's distance 9" 50' ; the pole of the eleventh house
is 17°, of the twelfth house 31°, and their diﬂemnce is
14°. Therefore,
PRIMUM momma. 285
.As the (3’s duplicate horary timesi . . . 31° 58’
is to the polar difference . . . . . . l4 0
so is his distance from the 11th house . . 9 50
to his polar distance from the llth . 4 0
which, added to the pole of the eleventh house, 17°,
the 0’s pole becomes 21°, under which his oblique as
cension is ’162“ 18’. The oblique ascension of the t:
of 8‘ in the ecliptic (upon which the G is perpetually
moved) is 207° 36’; from which, subtracting that of
the 0, leaves the arc of direction 45° 18', which, for
the equation, add to the 0’s right ascension, which is
164° 48’, and it makes 210° 8’, answering to 2° 20' of
m, to which the (D, from the day and hour of birth,
arrives in 49 days and one-third nearly, which denotes
so many years. I 7
To the 8 of 3‘ , by a converse motion, the calculation
is easy. '
The polar altitude of 3‘ is 2", under which his oblique
ascension is 229° 26?, and that of the 0’s 8, there is
345° 3’, from which, subtracting the former, there re
mains the arc of direction 45° 37'.
To the mundane parallel of 3 the calculation is
' thus : .
The Q’s horary times are 15° 59’, distance from the
medium caali4l°i48', the declination of a‘ is 25° 18',
ascensional diﬂ'erence is 25° 12’, and, divided by 6,
quotes 4° 12’, to be added to the equator’s horary
times, and the horary times of 3’s are 19°12', from
which are produced 50° 13', which is the secondary
distance of 3 from the immn coeli; his primary distance
therefrom is 4» 30', for his right ascension is 298° 30’,
286 rsmtm momma.
and the right ascension of the imu-m carli is 303° 0’;
subtracting, therefore, 4° 30’ from 50° 13', leaves the
arc of direction 45° 43'.
You see, therefore now, how well all the directions
agree at'the same time ; so that it is no wonder the na
tive was deprived of life. For the single direction to the
n of 6‘, as has been said, does not seem sufﬁcient.
The secondary directions for 49 years and 8 months are
made October 15, 1576, with 13h P.M.' nearly, under
this position of the stars:
oD'bualtitQ
Deg-ma Imamm'r
of —— .-_-._._._
Lon. a o 13.5' 26.40 6.47 16.0 8.4 law 2949
—___—_—_
N. N. N. S. N. S.
' Lilli.v 4.52 0.51 0.53 3. 0 0.501. 0
~ 1
The D is found in a parallel declination of 3 , and
I; with the 8 of 6‘ ; the * of at to the O could give
no assistance, because '11- is cadent, and the ray its is
very weak, especially when it is the principal rayI for
which reason, Ptolemy, in the Chapter of Life, when
he mentions the planets that are able to save in the oc
courses of the infortuucs, does not name the is, but the
D, A, and 8 ; because the at ray is feeble, particularly
when it is less than 60°; neither could 2 assist, as she
was cadcnt from the house, and in a sign inimical to
the 9. Lastly, when the primary directions are strong
for evil, the secondary rather co-operate for mischief,
. I
Pmmm MOBILE. 287
from the testimony of the maleﬁcs; and, on the con
trary, they co-operate for good, if the primary are for
tunate. The 0 was likewise with the 8.
The progressions were made September 2, 1580.
lel» biltia‘iﬁtlté s2
2?2_W|25:|1‘n|e|¢> x:
- 6.17‘ molwsalmas 14.46
Lanl 1.551021 15:1 4.5ii Zia
On the day he died, May 1, L626, the stars were
thus situated :.
0" Iblﬁ 892583
nutsﬂr
|M
Deg. 8 EB "11
01
Lon. 10.58 20.8 9. 5 24.9 29.1 9.43 22.44 0.51
On the day he died the Q was found in D of 3‘ of
the secondary directions, and CI of T? of the progres
sion; 3‘ upon the 1) of the progression. And it is to
he observed, that for several months before, I; remained
upon the (5) of the nativity, and without doing any mis
chief, becausc 1.1. was upon the (9's primary and se
condary directions: but when he was separated by re
trogradation, he left the Q in the power of'an infortune,
and there was a new It before his death, in 8 6°, in
the place of the 3 to the O’s secondary direction, and
in r: of the ) there, and in D of' 5’s progression.
288 PRIMUM MOBILE;
EXAMPLE XXVIII.
February 18th, 1603,
12 h. 26 m. P.M.
’JJ'
Lnrrtmn 44°.
uanwte-a'
DECLINATIOXS.
LATITUDE!
. . 2° 22' N. 18° 40' s.
1.34 N. 16 4? s'
. . o 9 s. 0 43 s
. . o 0 1129 S.
.510 N. 022 s.
. . 1 43 S. 13 26 S,
1. 0 11 N. 90 7 N.
ramnm matte. 289
THE ) with the Pleiades, Hyades, Orion’s Belt,
and near the great Dog-star Sirius,~the Q with Foma~
hauu \ '
He died February 18, 1655, at the -l7th civil hour.
This man was a professor of physio and philosophy in
the college atBononia, and of great repute. He argued
very subtilely, and supported his arguments with the
strongest reason. Being sent for by the principal great
men of Italy for his advice when they were sick, he
always returned loaded with honours and rich presents.
He had a great knowledge of the mathematics. His
liberality, particularly towards his friends, extended to
profusion; in other things extremely prudent and saga
cious. His house was ornamented with the most beau
tiful and valuable pictures, precious stones, gems, &c. ;
and he had ﬁlled his library with volumes of the best
authors in philosophy, physic, mathematics, and astro
logy. ’ - ,.
i To business his application was unremitting : of his
promises he was a careful observer. In short, the man
was rich in every kind of virtue. He was born with
his feet inverted, owing to the constitution of the I)
in the western horizon with 8 in amundane i: of
6‘, who passed through X, the sign of the feet,
. and in 8 of b in 1‘, the sign of the thighs. On
account of the friendship that subsistcd between us, he
desired me (for he was well acquainted with the common
4 'way) to calculate the directions of his nativity, which I
very gladly performed, and the calculation of past acci
Q q _
290 Perseus: MOIRLE.
dents appeared to a minute; butVI afterwards observed
to the year 59, a direction of the ) , who is 11ng to a
parallel of r, in the zodiac,-near a 14° 15', in south la
titude 8° 98’, though indeed the declination of this place
'is 19° 13' and 5’s declination is 18° 40’; but I know
that the luminaries in these parallels precede by their
eﬁ'ecfs the intimate application; the D , by a converse
motion, applied to the mundane parallel of 5‘ , whilst
both were carried away by the rapt motion of the primum
mobile round the world. Lastly, the D , by a right di
rection, came to the sesqui-quadrate of 3‘ in mundo.
And, indeed, as in every direction, the rays of the friends
are subsequent, it might be thought these aspects would
not prove fatal, yet he died on February 18, 1655, near
the 17th hour, almost suddenly, having some daysbeﬁmc
received the holy sacrament, conscious of his impending
unfortunate directions, and the unfortunate revolution
which happened the day he died; and I think of some
ihward accident which forewarned him of his death,
whence he is said to have ieaned the 18th, because,
perhaps, on that day, by calculation, a crisis or judgment
of some consequence would -fa11, for-it issaid \be was
sick the night before; however it be, he died the day
he had predicted, to the grief ofthe whole city of Fel
siua. His auditors, for ,the love and estimation ,they
bore their very learned preceptor, celebrated his funeral
with great pomp and solemnity.
The are of direction for 5Q years is 47° 50' ; for the 9,
after the nativity, arrives in 52 days to 21°_40' of 91',
whose right ascension is 20° 1‘, from which subtracting
PRIMUM Monica.- 291_
the 6’s right ascension, which is 332° 11', leaves the
are of direction 47° 50’, y The direction of the ) to a
parallel of b’s declination is thus calculated :
The ohiique ascension of the I) ’s 8 in the horoscope
is 257° 10', from. which subtracting the horoscope’s obq
lique ascension, leaves the 12 ’s' distance from the west
~8°19f3,’ ; the pole of thegsecond house is 38° 5 therefore the
difference of the poles of the 7th and 8th houses is 1 1°.
The D ’s diurnal horary times are 18° 27’; which
doubled produce 36" 54'; for the 3’s declination is
equal to 3 29° 30' in the ecliptic : Now therefore I
As the D 's diurnal horary times . v . 36° 54'
is to the polarv diﬁ'erence of the 7th and
8thh0uses . . . _. . . .- . . '1
; so is the l) ’5 distance from the westv . .
to the D ’s polar distance .. - . . .
whichjaddedto the poleof 81h . . . . ' .38
her pole 'then becomes 41°, under which. the oblique
ascension of her 8 _is 265° 0‘, to whiehI_ add the are of
direction 47‘., 60', and the sum is 302° 60‘, answering in
the same table to k? 14° 15’ with the north latitude,
which the )1 gains in the place of the:,& tohim, viz.
3°428’ ; therefore the 1) came to F? 14° It's'v in 8°_28'
south latitude, where she gains a declination of 19° 13',
that. is338’ greater-than that‘of I; : but as the p lessen
edhes' declination, she therefore applied. .,
The-calculation of the D ’s converse direction to the
mundane parallel of a , whilst both were carried away
by the rapt motion of the primum mobile, is thus :
The D’s semi-nocturnal are is 69° 17', that of 3
mm—
cogs
292 numm MOBILE.
96° 33’, which added together are 165“ 50'. i The D ’9
right ascension is 56° 28', that of 6‘ is 344° 26‘, which,
subtracted from the former, leaves the D’s right dis
tance from a 71° 50': the D’s primary distance from
the imum cmli is 77° 51': therefore
As the sum of the arc’s , . . . ,. . 165° 50’
is to the D’s semi-nocturnal arc . . 69 17
so is her right distance from 6‘ . . . 71 50
to her secondary distance . . . . . 30 l
which subtracted'ﬁ'om the primary, leaves the arc ofdi
rection 47° 50‘ ; and if you have a mind to calculate it
- by logarithms,- the minutes of the ﬁrst numbers are
9950', where the logarithm is 8.99782; the minutes of
the second are 4157’, logarithm 3.61878; and the uni
nutes of the-third are 4310’, and logarithm 3.63447. I
add these two last together, and the sum is 7 25320, from
which I subtract the ﬁrst, and the remaining logarithm
is 3.25544, which gives 1801‘, or 30° 1‘.
The )’s direction to the sesqui-quadrate of 3 in
mundo, by right motion, is thus calculated :
I ﬁrst direct to his 0 inmundo thus :
As the"b’s diurnal horary times . . . 18° 27‘
is'to herdlstance from the west . . . 8 33
so is 3’s nocturnal horary times . . . 16 5
to his distance from the imum coeli . . 7 ’27
which is to be subtracted from the primary. But as
the primary distance of 3‘ is less by 5° 41', therefore
3 precedes this :1 1° 46'. In‘ this case I ﬁrst triplicate
3 ’s horary times, which must be added to the D 's ray,
that we may form the sesqui-quadrate, and I have
PRIML'M momma. 293
48° 15’, from which I subtract 1° 46', which 3, by
his a, precedes the 1a , and there remains the D ’s are
of direction to the sesqtii-quadrate of 5‘ 46° 29’ 3 there
fore this ray of 3 had preceded a year, or more, at
which time, as he related to the, he suffered very great
' troubles of'mind.
The secondary directions aremade on April 11 , 1603,
12h, 26:11,. P. M.
o)bua‘9'§sa
Defg-rr'rrmrrxw'ml
1)
Ion. 21.37 26.0 345 20.57 22.47 10.22 21M4 27.53
‘ll ' ‘ N. N. N. s. N. N.
Lat. ' v 2.39 2,12 1.53 0. 3. 1.56 2.37
' (l-lt. A! t ~
You see theG is in 6 with 3, and separating from
the sesqui-quadrate of I; , and the 1) under the 0’s rays
in 'Y‘ in with 3 ; and § was with the luminaries
retrograde; which denotes an apoplexy, so that it is
very probable the native died of that disease; for the
place of the 15’s right direction concurs with the ses
qui-quadrate of ﬁt in the zodiac exactly by calculation,
and was the more fatal, as it was also in the terms
of it. ' I
The progressions happen on May 3, 1607.
The planets as follow: ~
294 \ murmurs MOBILE.
' app: - 511%55211 _ ,1:
‘6) D b u a“ gene :3»
Jig'i 8. st if X L 8 l“. "'1
1.011.; 13.0 11.40 t9R84 28.21 a. o 29. 0 I s. 0 9. 17
s. N. s. N. N. ‘v N.
Lat. 2.21 ~ 1.10 0.56 0.8 0.10 2. 4 ihi
. ‘ ._,
He died on February 18, 1655, the planets being
\ found as under:
_o 1) b y 8 9 8
1235- *: l St. "I! _ X 1‘- ' X l :: .2:
Ion. 29.48 1.14 0.55 27.53 10.40 1. 5| 17.7 15.5
' N. N. s. N. s. I
In. 1.18 1.48 1. 9 0.90 1.21 1.30
It is worth observing, that the native died nearly at _
the hour of the 9’s revolution,_ in which he had the
declination of b 5 and the 1) that of 3 3 and 2 was
separated from the 0 ; and the n “was also in a parallel
declination of 3’s progression ; Q in 8 of the 11, g
r and parallel of the 0’s progression, also 1) in parallel
declination of 5’s progression, and 3 with the D's
anaretic declination.
The magistracy in this nativity is denoted by 9
oriental in 6 with 3 in the southern circle, both angu
lar and in their dignities, an‘d coneiliatcd to the p by the
mumm Monica. 295
my quintile; vidc Ptolemy, Cap. dc Opiﬁcio. “ Si 2
§~ 5 simul oﬂiciis moderandis prrzﬁciuntur, 8;c. medi
camentan'os, Medicos, 8yc.“ But it was the more ex
cellent from the A of at constituted on the cusp of the
ascendant and oriental. Ptolemy in the same place says,
“ Nam orientalia cum sunt, out in angulis, opiﬁcia sud,
authoritate 8jfama minime carilura, Q'c. s; mperata i
beneﬁcis, mogna signiﬁcant opera, illustria, lucrosa, in
culpabilia, oenusta, go.” This one nativity, in pre
ference to numberlcss others which I have calculated, I
thought proper to insert here, that the memory of a man
so famed for virtue and erudition might survive among
the living, who in his_lifetime, by his professi0n and
friendly oﬁices, studied only the good of his fellow
creatures. ' ‘ ,
\ -n....--\
\-\\p
M__--
k-o ‘(~_ _ _, w_.__.-.,_:
296 vmmm MO'B'ILL
'. EXAMPLE XXIX.
100 - 0.
- I l -
LEONORA, 5
Duo/us}: q Sfortia. I
":27 " '
LATITVDES. DECLTNATKONS.
1,..2°41'N. 5°5's.
1.;0498. 18448.
3.,ssaN. 1025N.
Q..0 o 1 as.
g..1145. 617N.
g..1s1 N. \
).,s 08. msaN.
\
PMMUM arosrur. ' - 297
SHE died December 17, 1634-, aged 6; years and 9
months, nearly. - ,
In this nativity, as explained by Argol, he places 2 in
z: and y in x, but she ought to be in x and he in 'r.
He directs the ascendant to the 8 of the p, as if she
was anareta, though she rather appears to be the signi
ﬁcator of life, and her directions gree very well; for
the )1, by right direction, in (it years and 9 months“
comes to a parallel declination of 6‘ , near 5° 30' of 31,
where the D is in 2° 40’ south latitude, and gains a de
clination 16° 22'; and that of 3‘ “1°25.
The calculation is thus: the n’s declination, which
is l6° 38', answers to a l6° in the ecliptic, whose horary
times are l7° 49’, which doubled, make 35°_ 94', the
spaceof the D’s house; the oblique ascension of the
third house is 256°. The oblique ascension of the D ’s
(9 to the pole of the third house, which is 18°, is
251° 44'; therefore the D ’5 distance from the cusp of
the 9th house is 4° 16', and her polar elevation 20°,
under which the oblique ascension of her 8 is 252° 24';
the oblique ascension of :7 5° 30‘, with e° 40' north
latitude under the same pole is 818° 22’; from which,
subtracting the former, leaves the arc of direction 90° 58’,
which, for the equation, add to the 0’s right ascension,
which is 1° 34', and it makes 62" 30’, answering to
4° 32' of n, to which the Q arrives in 64 days and 13
hours, which denotes 64- years and 9 months.
And because the D’s declination in the nativity is
16° 38‘, which is nearly the same that. she obtains in the
place of direction, the arc of direction may be likewise _
R r ‘
295 ranmu Monrtz.
had by the right ascension. The right ascension of the
D is 66° ‘10';.the right ascension of 51 5° 80', with
2° 40' south latitude, is 1'37" 12'; from which, sub
tracting that of the 1), there remains the are of direction
61°23 greater by 4’ than the other, by means of some
diﬂ'erence of the It's declination and the place of the
occourse. '
Atthe Isame'time the 1) , by a direct direction, came
to the mundane parallel of b , for the D ’s declination
in the ecliptic answers to B. l6°; whose horary times
are 11° 42’; her distance from the medium cab} is
89° 50'; 5’s declination 5° .3’, answers to A l3° in the
ecliptic, whose diurnal horary times are MP 12'. From
these, by the Golden Rule, are produced 5 's secondary
distance from the medium cali 31° 57’;‘his primary
distance from the 10th is 93" L'Kfor '1; ’s right ascension
is 199°4'), and subtracting the primary distance from
the secondary, leaves the arc of direction: 6417': this
direction. was succeeded-by the p to the mundane pa.
rallel of § , who was enducd with the natune 06 b.
By converse (l-ll'OCllOI-l‘ the ) had arrived at the ‘8 of
F; 4 years before: b’s pole is 39°; under which his
oblique ascension is 203° t3’; the oblique ascension
of the )‘s 8. under 32’s pole, is 960° tt)‘; which there—
fore being subtracted; leaves the arcoFdinection 56'67".
Retention of urine is- denoted 2i, lady of the
asecndant in the 6th house, and! in» parallel of 5’s de—
clination in the horoscope, positedl in the sign of the
reins and kidnies; the 1) was also in- a parallel of de
clination with 3 , and in mundane D with 2 in the tith
house.
'rnmuat Monttn, 299
‘ The secondary directions happen May 1'6, 1670, near
I hour P. M.
G ) b 113 9"'§~l
n'ts
a
Dug. n. a. as .ng
of
Inn. 4.40 18.80 [5.54 16.45 5. 6. 0 16.20 4.0
- N. -' N. S. N. S. S.
LaLF 3.30 ' 7.50 0.3T l. 0 0.?0' 2.20
1
Observe that 2 is colnhust of the Q) and in 1:: of
3 , andwi'th the hyades; the v is in the sesqni-qua-.
drate of the 0 and 9, , and parallel declination of b , and
in the preceding 6, 1L assisted with his A ray. 1
The progression. for full 65 years fallson June 13th,
l575, the a. remaining in 7° of "it, and the Gin, l°of
Q. But. there is a deﬁciency of 8 months and 6 days;
for the three menths I subtract 3 signs f, and go back
with ﬁle D ,so that she is posited in 11 0°. Lastly, I sub,
tract 6‘ for the same number of days, and the. ) is go
sited in 9H? ;_ the rest. of the planets as under:
it *9
xi; . T'giu'.
o 1\ I b u 6 2 l""§' "' 9
Deg. [I 8 1‘ 25 E 23 II 8
of
Lou. 94.20 24.015.40 15.18 33219.38 3.48 ‘26.]?
S. N. N. N. N.
Lot. 0.“ 1.48 0.6 0.8 1.30 9.0
(I)0
The'G was in an exact parallel declination of 3 , g
300 rntMUM momma.
also with the declination of a , and the 1) in n of 3 of
the nativity.
December 17th, 1634, the day she died, the stars were
found as under:
burs e a_'
ISLI'J-zzlct‘
of -—-__-_.._.
Lon. ‘25 39 20.0 24.10 2.54 28.4 12.5l 15.51 [6 52
S.
1. 2
l
m
S. N. N. S. 8.
Let. 4.27 1. 2 0.311.16 1.53
The 0 is conjoined to I; in the 8 of his progression,
and b in 8 exactly to the 0's progression; the D re
maining with the declination of I; in 8 of his progres
sion, and in the sesqui-quadrate of 3,'when he was
separated from the A of '11. There was a full 0 De
cember 5th before her death, the 9 remaining upon 1;
of the progressions. Both the luminaries were found
parallel declination of the maleﬁcs; the p stopped at
the of 3 in the nativity on the day of death, and u,
by retrogradation, separated from the place of the D ’s
right direction:
Panwm momma. 301
EXAMPLE XXX.
1%“ “UHF—T
Q xi“?! (main;
, ._\ Riff 412,61} I an! I
(Q ‘5;va ‘7 mid.»
P nlﬁﬂlm '
3A
‘3?“
JOHN BAPTIS'
CARDAN. ~
m '\'
BORN
.- 8h.30m.P.M. A
m
Lnnvnz 44°.
ILATlTU‘DES. D‘C'LTNATIONS.
1, . . 0° 20' s. 21° 22' N.
u..o'6N. 19368.
a ‘. . o 51 N. 20 5'! N.
o . . o o 20 44 N.
2..2 11'N. 24 55 N.
§..152N. .2131N.
1; . . a :0 s 19 21 N.
302 PRLMUM mourns.
MEDUSA'S head on the cusp of the seventh house,
with 2 and the 1;; on April 9th. L560, he was be
headed, at the age (£25 years, museums, and 20' days.
This remarkable geniture of John Baptist, eldest son
of Jerome Cardan, was ﬁrst calculated and published by
his father; after him, by Valentine Naibod, and lastly,
by John Anthony Maginus, three very learned and cele
brated authors, though none of them would allow the 3
to be hylcg. But, agreeable to Ptolemy's method, who
teaches by day, ﬁrst; to. take the Q, then the D , 8w. ; by
night, ﬁrst the D , 8am; and at the end of the Chapter
concludes thus : “ Tune demum gubernatoan utrisque
Iumi'nibus antqferimus, quaudo honoriﬁcentiorem occupal
Ibcum, 8; ad utrasquercondilimws gubemandi ius habet.”
In this case y is more digniﬁed and strong than the 9 ,
who is the conditionary luminary in the western angle,
and the ﬁrst in apparition from the Q, You may per
ceive, studious Reader, how my opinion of the familia
rities of the stars agrees with the truth of things, by
comparing what has before been done by these three
learned authors with this Example. I say that the 1)
is absolutely moderator of life, and. at the time of his
death came, by right direction, to a
the 6, near 18° 50' of 25, where having obtained 2° south
latitude, her dcclinatibn is 205’ 50‘. Next follows the
6 of I; ,and the parallel of it’s declination {bathe being
very unfortunate, and not agreeing with the signs of the
luminaries, threatened (according to Ptolemy) the anger
of the‘Prince, and the sentence oFthe judges, who in
Cap. dc Morte saith thus : “ Quad si g ‘11. testiﬁeetur
rnmtm MOBILE. 303
5 simul pmvilatem indutus, iléustri mrsu: morti: genere
detrdunt, cmzdemnatione nimirum, @- ira principium, ac
ieglun ;" for 1.]. is occidental, retrograde, peregrine, with
8, and in 8 of 3 , with the declination of I) .
The 3 ,, too, by converse direction, came to the mun
dane parallel of b, succeeded also by that of 3 and ‘11.
The are of direction for ‘25 years I 1 months, is 20° :19' ;
for the @from the day of birth, in the space of 25 days
- 22 hours, arrives at 27° 17' of n, whose right ascension
is 81° Q'; from which, subtracting the right ascension
of the 0, which is 609 30’, there remains the arc ufdirec
tion affair.
The oblique ascension of the 'D 's 3 under the pole
44° (for the p is on the cusp of the seventh house) is
279° :37'; to which, adding the arc of direction 26° 32',
makes 306° 9’ ; which, in the same table of oblique as
cension, answerste H“ 80‘ of 9.9, with 2" north latitude;
the declination of which place is 20° 50'. Parallels
about the tropics are of long duration, and their effects
more fully appear, when the other motions of direction,
both direct and converse, the secondary directions, pro
gressions, ingresses, ﬁzc. agree with them. The calcula
tionofihe it ’s converse direction to the mundane pa
rallel of b_ will be thus : The declination of is , Ql" 22',
is equal to 25 24° in the ecliptic, whose diurnal horary
times are 18° 46; the oblique ascension of his 8 in the
horoscope is 3l5° 26’; from which subtracting the ho
roscope's oblique ascension, there remains 8; ’s distance,
from the west 38° 32'.
The p’s declination, l9° 21', is reduced to 8 26° in
the ecliptic, whose nocturnal horary titties (for the D is
'qxx‘
304 PRIMUM' MOBIL!
posited below the earth) are 11° 42’ ; the oblique as
cension of the ) 's 8 is 979° 37', from which, subtract
ing the horoscope’s oblique ascension, leaves her primary
distance from the west 2° 33'; therefore
- As the diurnal horary times of b . . a 18‘ 42'
- is to-his distance from the west . . . 8'8 22
so is the 11 ’s nocturnal horary times . ll 42
' to her secondary distance from the west 24 0
which added to the primary, as the D in the nativity is
above the earth, and by the direction posited below,
makes the arc of direction 26° 88'.
The secondary directions happen on the 9th of June,
1534-, 4" 10' P. M. atwhich time the planets were found
as follows : I
o n b u a 2‘ ~‘ s a
Q ‘ Detg. 11 u 25 .24 SL 11 n 51
L_. .0 . w _l_
1; n. 2122 8.87 ‘26.81- 01116 13.59 11m new:
.11 "w s. N. s. N. s. s. ' ~
A 5‘... ' 4.33 0.13 0.21 0.34. 1. 1 4.20 h I;
1.1,.
The progressions fall on June l7th, I586; the l) re
maining iri 11 20°, and the rest as under:
‘ I
I o a I; u a 2 a 8
De?! 9: n 51 or "11 B u n
o _,
L0 I 5. 0 20.0 21.31 12.45 2.90 6.10 Q8.0 29.56
n.
0.52 1.12 1.51 0.3;r 1.23 0.50
l
I
I
l l
\‘N.‘S new!
Lat.
names: moms. 305
On the day of his death, April the 9th, 1.560, the
stars were thus found :
.0 ) b u o“ 9 s Q
Deg. tr Q t: W‘ " X ‘Y‘HL X
29.29 14.54 6.51 8.17 037 17.27 23.46 19.21
S. S. S. N. S. S.
Lat. 2.9 1.96 1.6 0.13 0.20 1.10
In the secondary direction the 1) had a declination
_ 16°17’, and that of 6‘ was l7° 15', and the b was near
Aldebaran and Medusa’s head. The day he died, both
the maleﬁcs were found upon this place of the p in n:
4°. Besides, the Q, by secondary direction, Was in 6
with § retrograde, who having a declination of _19', and
communicating to d! from the parallel, transferred the
enmity of 3‘ to the 0, who, on the day of his death,
was found in the c: of I; 's secondary direction, and in
the CI of 3 of the nativity, and in n of 1’s secondary
_ direction unfortunate.
In the progression the 1) was found upon her place of
the nativity in 6 with § , under the (D's rays near Me
dusa’s head; and the day he died, 3 had a parallel of
declination to her. The same day she applied to the a
, of 5's radical place, the 0 was in A of 5‘ of the pro
gression, and in parallel declination, exactly to minutes,
viz. 11' I4'. According to Ptolemy, Cap. de Will, it
is observable that in this gcniture nearly all the planets
have the lame declination, it in obedience and 2 under
5 s
806 21111101: woman.
the Q beams; I; and a are elevated above Q, who is
:falling from the angle ofthe 7th. into the 6th, but they
are succedent in the 8th, the house of death, which is
terrible.- “Zhenever themaleﬁesare'found in the 8th,
and afﬂicting the luminaries, especially the conditionary,
so that nevertheless if thcy are Well‘sﬁtuate and power
ful, their strength is of .no avail whena violent death is
threatened, and the more so iflthe places of both the
maletics agree with the nature of the signs and the ﬁxed
stars, and theluminaries are found in the same horary
circle withﬂre mm,"5's‘ in this FEéE‘the' D‘Vdescends
with CaputMedusae. (See Ptolemy, Chap. of Death.
He was beheaded for poisoning his wife; that being the usual
. mode ofeseéutiiig malefaetors, at that time, in that country.
I g I 'J' '_, . . t '
v I '_
' l u
'1
. ;' '. .
. . .
5 'k
, . : ~ I '- c |
.
' T ' a ' 1 v ‘ .| 'v
. ‘
l I I '
.1
‘ ( a j; ' '.".1
1 .
. I ll. .1: ’2‘ 1" I
- _ ' H . (I'
a .
: x e. ' I ll. 1‘ O.
.
. I 7.: , .1 jig“ ..".
. ' i I
' _ , _ . ' s . I -- - ‘ ‘l
. .1
307
ramuu MOBILE
Dxcm'rms OF THE PLANETS IN THE Sums.
L
58_b56hb8.b8.3bb
w_wwww_wwwwww_m
"3,,
.
Albina.
8w?
HUB.
i8
8
v8
$32
.5
4
5
m
s4
,
_.
.
.
A
uwlmfla
26
3..
a
M
a
w
a
win
“in
m
%
%_%
%
m.
u
w4_us_mo
177;.
99
m.
.
I
w
*
efwrfuv
mails
aw
T
U.
u.
9.8.
10
u
u.
U.
U.
0‘
n
X!
m
_
7
_8
_9
0
_1r.
NN
h
I.
I.
In
.A.
wnnwflnfﬂwmwww
mﬁqhﬂiwirg
T.
.
1
A_59_6W
7H.
8”
9.
w?
w...
9
.0.
ﬂ.
9.
2.
9:9
0+
0+
1
0+
.4
h,
n__4'0.._wu
om71
Bhoqlmmw
0..
I
_
*_SH_.4.9bl
62
73
84.
E'A.
v...
H
H
Bl
7
4
l
7
L.
3
.0
11
...
l
l_1
1
l
I
l.
1
.l
_
2
3
_
4.
5
.
t
.-
u
9§.3
u
“9.03
U§§
0..00
M-
8_
n_@_m(_1»._m.
6
8
6
A
u:
§X_Q,.\_m:o_en
mﬁ
1
q
6
1
6
7
w.1
1
m
m.
n
FHQWZWXI;
m8
11..
I
vi)
a.
)
uD
.4
D
.D
m.
*
ﬂimolzlmx
IT
M8
Nu.
.Hlmmnmznr
0+
)
x!
00
0+
m
A—
_
m.
_
I.
.
W,
Z
_
X
0
0+
:0
8
0
0+
5
Q
2.
.b
J.m
00
A
_
m
_
I.
C.
w.
_
X
,
_
_
_
_
wA
In_wmgxﬂ_xm
w:
5%
Hnu_;._o:._o_)_
“u.
_§
10
16
0+
R
D
:R_xm_
u0m.
U44
.
.
.
_
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
a.
.
.
:2
if?»
Y";
gm
:85.
n
N
D-
_N
D
N
D
N
D
N
_
.
W
3
9
8._)_®8.
0+
3
H.
.b.
.h.
u.
1..
22..
lilin
n
A
11;.
u.
x
|
\’~ 7‘
CANON.
=2
ﬁf the ism of fortune.
_
/
WHEN this work was ﬁnished, the very illustrious
D. ADRIAN NBGUSANTIUS, of Fanum, a man, not only
very well versed in Astrology, according to the true doc
trine of Ptolemy, but, also, in Physics and the sublime se
crets of Nature, having transmitted to me a method to
calculate the Q perfectly agreeable to reason and expe?
rience, I thought proper to set it down here, word for
word, that every one might see a secret in this art, in-.
vented by so great a man, truly worthy the-pen of the
greatest Astrologers; for I willingly confess, that, with
regard to the Q, I have laboured a long time, and have
not been able hitherto to ﬁnd any truth in it.
“ The 9 (says be), if we may credit the precepts of
Ptolemy, who asserts that it has- the same position
to the D as the 0 has to the horizon (Quadripart. _
Book III, chap. xii), ought to be described and de
ﬁned in the lunar parallels; for neither, if it be consti
tuted in the ecliptic, according to the intentions of the
common Astrologers, or in the D's orbit, as was the
opinion of a very eminent professor, will it be found
PRIMUM MOBILE. 309
to preserve that order and similitude which the re
spective conversions of two luminaries, both diurnal
and annual, denote." This man subscribes to the
truth of every thing I lately mentioned in my Celestial
Philosophy, wherein I said, that the 69 moves upon
the orbit or way of the D's latitude, and, therefore,
not in the ecliptic.
But as I have shown that the distances and rays to
the angles are, by no means, made in the zodiac, but
upon the parallel of every star, he argues, and, indeed,
very ingeniously, that the O, in like manner, is elongated
from the East, viz. upon his parallel; and, also, the
p , who has not by any other method not way diﬂ'erent
than when the 0 is in the horizon, by her real presence,
posited the place of 9 ; for no other fundamental prin
ciple is seen to constitute this part in nature, unless by
such an assignation and impression of virtue, exhibited
by the 9, at 9 rise. \thn this learned man adds,
" For when the 0 comes to the Cardinal Sign of the
East, then it is necessary the ) be found in its hori
zon; afterwards, in an equal space of time, the 0 di
gressing, he is removed from it according to his ascen
sion ;” wherefore, if we study the matter with accuracy,
We shall ﬁnd that, entirely in the same manner as the Q
departs from the East, the D is likewise separated from
the Q, that is, both upon their parallels, so that as many
degrees as the o, in his parallel circle, is elongated from
the East, 'so many is the D in her parallel, distant from
the Q: whence it follows, that the true place of 8
does not always remain in the zodiac, but always under
the D 's parallel circle, that is, with the D 's declination
310 'enmou MOBIL!
the same both in number and name, and, therefore, the
69 does not receive any aspects from the stars in the'
zodiac, but onlyin undo; We may make a calcula
tion of the 6 smml ways, but it will be shorter, as
well as easier, if, in= the diurnal geniture, the 0’s true
distance.from the East. is addedto the It 's right ascen
sion, and, in the nocturnal, subtracted, for the num
ber thence arising will be the place and right ascension
of Q: and it- always has the same. declination with the
11, both in number and name, wherever it is found.
Again, let the 0's oblique ascension, taken in the
ascendant, be subtracted always from the oblique ascen
sion of ,the ascendent, as well in the day as in the night,
and the remaining difference be added to the 1) ’s right
ascension, the sum will be the right ascension of Q,
which will have the )) It's declination. There are likewise
other methods to take the place of 9. ,He, who has a
mind to makeits directions, will accomplish it only by'
the motions in the world, that is, to the aspects in
mundo; and, indeed, it, appears that the conversions of
both the luminaries agitate the $ by the two motions,
since, if the luminaries are carried together by the mo
tion of the primum mobile, then the|$ remaining-im
moveahle .in its horary circle of~ position, waiting for
the coming and rays of thg opposite stars, will be di
rected by a. right motion; but, by a converse motion,
if the 0 be constituted inimoveable, and the 1) pre
ceding as usual. GB will, by the rapt motion, be devolved,
to the bodies and rays of the promittors : but as it my,
very reasonably .be doubted whether the 9 institutes the
directions by converse motion, I will omit speaking of,
fauin Moraine. ' ' 311
this till another time, and, in the interim, see what
experience says. This is worth observing, that if 9
does not consist in the zodiac, it is, nevertheless, di
_rected to the parallels of the stars in the primum mobile, '
together with the D, whose, declination it is always
known to follow, and which they vary continually and
successively; therefore, when the ) comes to the de
clination of any star, she produces a double etfect, ac
vcording to the proper sigtiﬁcation' of every one portend
,ed in the geniture, because she then falls together with
93 on the parallel of the same star: an invention truly
ingenious; for, as the 0, by his motion in the zodiac,
successively changes his parallel, and, therefore, that
relative point of his rising in the horoscope, so likewise '
the », whilst she, by a right direction, lttstratea the
zodiac, and varies her parallels, seems therefore of con
sequence to draw to her declination the point of exist
ence of 9. All these things, however, I confess must
be conﬁrmed by examples and experience.
And, as the same Negusantius transmitted to me
some things which he found relating to this in the Com
mentaries of George Valla, on the Quadripartite, which ,
appear to the mind of this learned author, I therefore
subjoin the following: ‘ - '
“ But, that the 69 (says Valla) is the nocturnal and
lunar horoscope, is manifest from what Ptolemy says;
for the p willyhave the same ratio of parts to the part
of Fortune, and the same ﬁguration, as the 0 has to 'the
horoscopez” and that every one may knowthat this
ﬁguration and ratio of the distance of the luminaries
tilt!“ be taken in the parallels of the luminaries, he adds,
312 semen Monica.
“ .It will be likeWise plainer still, if we follow the same
method by, the Canons, as in the horoscope; for it will
be found again, that the horoscope is the Part of For
tune, for, adding the part of the I) in the diurnal na
tivities, and, in the nocturnal, by taking the ascen
sionary times of the opposites, we multiply the hours,
and compounding the produced number with the ascen
sions, look in their climates, where the number falls,
and there we say is the' lunar horoscope.” The ascen
sionary times and hours are nothing but the times of the
parallels, whereon the luminaries are moved by an uni
versal motion, and etl'ect their distances from‘the Car
dinals and other Houses, and, consequently also, confi-w
gurations, as I have evidently demonstrated in the
Celestial Philosophy. And the climates are distin
guished by parallels to the equator, as has been observed ;
therefore they are taken, by this author, for the paral
lels, which he eiiplains in these words: “ In like
manner we shall ﬁnd, from a measurement from, the 0
to the 1) , that whatever ratio_and ﬁguration the 0 has
to the eastern horizon, the same has the I) to $;" for,
indeed, the luminaries, and all the stars, form no other
distances from the horoscope and houses, except upon
every one of their parallels, and, as has been said, by
V the horary and ascensionary times. Ptolemy speaks ex
pressly of this in the Chapter of Life, whence Valla
reasonably infers, “ the ﬁguration of G3 to the 1) , taken
in this manner, will be the same as the horoscope to
the Q; and, on the contrary, whatever ﬁguration the
Q has to the horoscope, the same will be that of the D
to Q. In like manner, ‘for the same reason, both will
Pamvu Momma 313
be the same as the other; that is, as many parts as the
Q was distant from the horoscope, so many was the )
fwm GB,” .Viz- always upon their parallels, and by the
ascensionary times in them. To prevent any one suppos
ing this doctrine ﬁctitious and void of experience, and
that the method of calculating might not be obscured, I
have subjoined one example, in preference to others,
which I myself have observed, which you how in the
nativity of Francis, the infant son of D.v Camillius
Piazole, a native of Padua.
Francis Piazole,
qf Padua.
"I
BORN
pril the 3d, 1652,
9 h. 47 m. P. M.
er”
uni-um; 45°.
314 numm Momma.
LATITUDES. DECLINATIOIS;
r, ‘.'. 0° 19' N.- 21° 59' N.
a . o a s. 11 59 N.
) . . 4 14: S. 21 19.8.
R.A. 1LT.
r, . 114 9.ﬂ 18:57 D.
a . 29 11 - ' 12 s? N.
) .015 40 - , 1a ‘51 N.
GB ; 198 32 ' _’ 11 9‘ D.
HE was born in the year and “day plaécd in the celes
itial constitutibn, and baptized immediately, as he was
not echcted to live. He did not live to be more than
three years of age, for, on the 7th of March, 1655, at
about the 20th hour, he was drowned in a small quan
tity of water where chickens were used to drink. In
this nativity, if the Q be computed in_‘ the common
way, it will” fall in ‘20”*27" of the sign 111; to which,
without exception, according to the doctrine of Ptolemy,
the signiﬁcation of life belon‘gs, and iwhich does‘not
there appear to suﬂ'er any violence prrnortal direction in
the third year; if any one ﬁnds_it.so, I_ beg he will com
municate it. But, according to the ingenious invention
of Negusantius, we look for the place of Q thus : The
oblique ascension of the 0, talten in the ascendant, is
7"‘45', which, subtracted from the oblique ascension of
the ascendant, leaves the 0’s distance from it 242° 52':
I add this to the ) ’s' right ascension, and I make the
right ascension of pars fortume l98° 32', which, as we
.have said, will have the D’s declination. l subtract the
right ascension of the'medium mli from that of par:
PRIMUM MOBILE; 315
fortunes, and its distance therefrom is 37° 55'; and, as
its horary times are 11° 9’, it doubtless remains about
the middle, of the eleventh house, where 8’s 8 and
5’s m cosmieal ray in mundo fall. But let us calculate
these rays exactly : ;
As the horary times of pars 9 . . . 11° 9‘
, is to its distance from the medium eteli _ . 37 55
so is 3’s horary times . . . . . '. 12 57
to his secondary distance from the imum 01in 44 2
his primary distance is 48° 40'; from which, subtract
ing the secondary, leaves the arc of direction of pars to
3 ’s 8 , 4° 38'.
Again. The semi-diurnal are of pars is 66“ 54', and
.is taken from the horary times multiplied by 6; there
fore, if from the semi-diurnal arc is subtractedjits dist
ance from the medium cwli, there will remain its distance
from the horoscope 28° 59’. Now, I say,
As the horary times ofparsfortuna: ,. . 11° 9‘
is to its distance from the horoscope . . 28 59
so is b’s horarytimcs ‘ . . . . . . 18 57
to his secondary distance from the medium
cwli...........-4916
from which, subtracting the primary, which is 46° 28',
leaves the arc of direction of parsfortume to the cos
mical :1 of F; 2° 48'. But the 69 remained about the
beginning of m, 5 in the eighth house, the ) in x,‘
and both the D and ‘9 under a parallel of I; ’s declina
tion, and Q applied to the hostile rays of the maleﬁcs,
which threatens drowning, according to the doctrine of
Ptolemy, in the chapter of death. ,
What wonder, therefore, if this unhappy infant met
316 rnmtm MOBILE.
with the abovementioned fate, and came into the world
attended with nothing but sickness ?
It is rather wonderful he survived; the reason he did,
was, perhaps, owing to the costnieal parallel of 1‘ con
curring to that part; which, if any chooses, he may
calculate, and will ﬁnd it follow.
But, 1!. being so very unfortunate, and alone, against
_ two enemies, could be of no service; and, it is worthy
of observatidn, that, at the 20th hour of the 7th of
March, in which this infant was drowned, a 1 went over
the middle of. the ﬁfth house, that is, in 8 of the mun
dane place of the 05, and b was in the middle of the
second, in o of the same ; so that we know there was
no other place of the 6, except that which we have cal
culated: and this method, concerning it, is certainly
conformable to reason, and also experience.
Receive, my 'very courteous reader, this secret in
Astrology, as ‘truly worthy, and not taken from the
common professors of this art, but freely communicated
by the truly learned Negusantius.
And, may the conclusion of the whole work turn to the
praise ofALMiGHTY GOD.
Amen.
From what has been said in this Canon, and its exempliﬁcatiou,
the follmving conclusions are to be drawn as to @, viz. That@ is
the mundane place of the D at 6) rise; and, consequently, has the
D's declination, both in quantity and denomination. And if$ res
mains in the same hemisphere as the ), it has the )’s are and ho
nuttm montu. 817
rary times; but, if the ), and Q are in‘diﬁ'erent hemispheres, Q
will have the complement of the are and horary times of the ).
The Q cannot be directed in mundo converse, because it is not
aﬂ'ected by the rapt motion; nor can it be directed to the aspects in
the zodiac, either direct or converse, except only the zodiacal
parallels, and, of them, only such as the' 3 falls upon, and at
the same time with the ). The Qhath no determinate latitude,
but its latitude is constantly varying, and it is rarely, by position,
in the ecliptic; and whatever conﬁguration the O has to the ascend
ant, the same has the D to the Q), as Ptolemy declares in Lib. III,
cap. xiii, Quad. by Leo Allntius, page 184. “ Hana itaque a rem,
guw sempcr die, ac nocte colligitur; ut quam Izabet rationcm, 4
posituin Q ad horoscopum, tandem hubeat ) 4 ad Q sit reluti lu
Mris horoscopus." And which is most elegantly and demonstrably
proved by Cardan, in his Commentary upon the QuaclripartiteI
folio edition, printed at Basil in 1578, page 359, which, for its pe
culiar beauty and simplicity, I will here insert, with the diagram by
which its relative situation is proved by mathematical demonstra
tion.
Cardan says, “ If the ) is going from the 6 to the 8 of the Q,
“ then the ) follows the Q, and 6 is always under the earth,
“ from the oscendant; but if the ) has passed the 8, she goes
“ before the Q, and Q is before the ascendant, and always above
.“ the earth. Which is thus shevm: .
rnthm Momm.
315
" Let the Q bein A, the D in B_, and draw the line AC, from
' the Q to the ascendant, and, from the ), BD equal to AC:
“ then it is demonstrated in the third of the Elements of Euclid,
that the arc DD is equal to the arc AC. Subtract AD, which
" is common to both, and'thnre remains AB, equal to CD : ther¢~
“ fore, the distance of the ) from the (3, being added to the
“ aicentlant, there arises the place of 83, which is the place where
“ the 1) reﬂects the Q's rays, equal to that with which the Q irra
\diates the ascendant; therefore the place of G} is had, by adding
“ the distance of the 1) from the Q, to the ascendant."
it appears, that. Cardan had a good general idea of (E, but his error,
in computing its place, arose from his taking it in the ecliptic instead
of taking it upon the parallel of the )‘s declination.
rit
~
By which
"ﬂbbmba.
URBAN THE EIGHTH.
(FROM THE AUTHOR’S CBLESTlAL PHILOSOPHY.)
THIS curious nativity being referred to, by the Auq
thor, in Canon XXXVIII,‘ page ‘108, it was deemed
proper to subjoin it to the present work, as an illustra
‘ tion of that Canon.
Pope Urban VIII.
N,“ a
5‘ _“_
¢§
norm .e{
April the 6th, 1568, . , /d:i
41h.26m.P.M. ‘ ' “I
to
wrr “L ._ .
' LATITUDE 44°. ,‘ \ W
320 ramUM 110111111.
P. Latitudes. Arcs. Hardly Titties. Rt. Ascension.
7, 2° 31' N. 84° 53' 11° 8' 113° 56'
11 1 15 N. 110 24 1a 28 246 2:1
3 2 13 N. 112 as 18 49 121 21
*0 o o_ 99 as 16 as as 49
g o s s. as so 13 ~51 a“ 48
y 0v _1 N. 103 so 17 11 - as 11
D 4 50 S. _ 106 so 11 48 120, 20 ‘
THE cause of this fortunate constitution, is, by the
common professors, unanimously asserted to be, Cor
Leonis in the ascendant and in A with the Q, from the
ninth house, in the sign tr; 'but neither have any
weight with me, for I can aﬁirm, of my own know
ledge, to have seen many genitures of unfortunate men,
with Cor Leonis in the ascendant and tenth, and the Q
beheld, by fortunate rays, in the zodiac. But, ac
cording to my opinion, the principal cause was the for
tunate position of the luminaries, the satellites of the
0 being beneﬁcs, and angular; for the 0 is in * to 9
in mundo (as it is in the ﬁrst, and many of the examples
brought by Argol, which I have long ago examined),
and also in zodiaeal parallel with 9 , by reason it has
nearly the same declination: moreover, it is~in mundane
parallel with 1‘, namely, at' the same distance from the
medium cali that u is from the imam caeli, and applies
to a sesqui-quadrate and biquintile of u in the zodiac.
Lastly, it is in A to Cor Leonis, with which it is fa
PRIMUM Moritz. 321
'vounbly conjoined in the zodiac, and effects, with the
same, all the rest of the familiarities. The D is upon
the cusp of the twelfth house, with the fixed stars
Canis Major and Minor,- in parallel with u and t},
in the zodiac, 2 is descending with Lucida Fidiculaa to
a quintile with the medium cali; to which the. Q, by
converse dinection, arrived in 56 years. At 76 years
and 3 months, :the Q came to the west, and it hap
pened that 9 was interposed, which added some small
time, but 13’s 8 succeeding, diminished more than 2
added; then 74’: A from the cusp of the third house,
super-added more time than was diminished by 1,;
Lastly, 6‘ lustrates a greater space, by his quintile ray
from the medium emli, than all the rest, whence he di
minishes more than all the others. § , who is mixed
with the ski Of 2 , and sesqui-quadrate of b, neither
gives nor takes away by his * .- i
f
The calculation of the Directions by Cation XXXVHL
v . iutcs.v
v53’s 6 to thewest '. . t . 'a' 23° 2'
5’5 8toditto . . s . . ._ 2" 33 20
u’sAtodittoi . t . . .'. 57,38
3’s mtoditto a . . . . ,_',75H
0’sétoditto . . . . . . . 77 44
Proportional Parts. _
2, As 167°40’: l3°57':: 23° 2’ : l°54’+.
1;,A'5169 46:14 8 :: 33 20 : 2 37—1
7t,As220 4S : IS 23 :: 57 38 :4 47 +4
61A5225 46118 49 t: 75 53 : 6 l6-—.
U u -
3'22 rumor: mount.
it + 9 :: 6° 41'. I, + 3‘ :- 8° 53’; their differ
ence : 2' 12' to be subtracted from the 0’s arc to the
west=77° 44', and there remains the arc of direction
of the Q to the west, diminished by the addition and
_ subtraction of the fortunate and unfortunate stars -
75° 82'. For the equation, I add this are to the 0’s
right ascension, and the sum is 99° 21', answering to
8° 35' of n, to which the 0 arrives in 76 days and a
quarter. At which place is found the E] of 3- to the
west, just before the 0 descended, that is, nearly 2°,
and is a great proof that I am right in my opinion.
Urban the Eighth was a Florentine, and succeeded Gregory the
Fifteenth in the Papal Chair. At the time of his election disputes
ran so extremely high, that ten cardinals lost their lives on this oc
casion. In the year 1626, Urban had the honour of consecrating
St. Peter's church at Rome, which was performed with pomp and
splendour equal to the magniﬁcence of the structure. That the
grandeur of the apostolical chair might be the more advanced, in
1631, he gave to the cardinals the title of Eminence, forbidding
them to acknowledge any other appellation. There was a conspi—
racy against his life in 1633, but which was detected, and its
authors punished. In 1684, he issued a bull, compelling the cardi
nals and bishops to residence. Pridcaux, in his Introduction to
History, says, that the cardinals had long wished for a vacancy by
the death of Urban, and were afraid he would have outsat St. Peter.
He was a man of great abilities,and a good poet.
TABLES ‘ ‘
Wdination,%igbt ﬂsrmsinn.
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE,
CREPUSCULINES,
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS,
FOR COMPUTING
THE 'ARCS OE DIRECTION.
3’}! t mutt-M MOBILE.
TABLES
OF
DECLINATION.
North Latitude.
o 1 2 a ‘ to 7
0. M. . mu. no. M. b. M. o. .o. MiD.
T 25 l- 5 26 3]” 49 29
1‘23 5 4- 515 s] sin a! 3120 a:
2;; t- 15154) i 21., 31 29 3'
\ ' - ' 29
:1ch
U‘
ION.“U
to
'9
63
be
N)
to to
Q
Is
v.Il ROIC
l
l
18
l
l~llvl~
I;
Q
mitt
N‘IJF.
rQIO _
e.._.
._.,...
pm
~.|
antm M08113. 325
TABLES
OF
DECLINATION.
South Latitude.
1" o 1pc 314,15 0' 7 a 9
M~l)VM-ID~M-D.M.D.MJD~M.D.1\LD- D.MD.M.
M.
22 32141 32:10 3219 3918 3:11 5215 3915 121+ séso
5122 3121 5120 9119 $118 3111 2115 3115 3114 3129
_ 139
3122 31.21 3120 3119 31118 8117 3116 3115 31H 81
‘22 3091 3096 3019 5018 $017 3016 3015 3014- 30
2892 28191 2520 9819 9818 2817 2816 2815 9814 96
9699 90““ 96"]0 9619 9 18 9617 9615 2615 26141 26 -
’7
90
9'1
Tl Y3?! 9320 9519 3318 2317 ‘2315 9315 9314 2534
3
99
21
£1112813.5
Q U!3
owes
{AU
23 9029 9091 9090 9019 9018 9017 9016 2015 2014 20
3 1722 17’21 1780 1719 1718 1717 1710' 171.5 1714 17
3 1529 1591 IS‘iO 1319 1318 1517 13
mm 9m 9-10 019 spa 9171016 1015 101+ 10%
sandal 4.10 419 6118 1111 516 515 614 6l°
:11 590 1919 0919 010 017 016 115 114- 115
:11 5990 11319 511111 5417 6416 6415 5514 5515 551-1
‘30
tomqu.
1'9»qu
-
a tou.
21 47 ~17 19 11113 4311 4:10 4815 4914 4919 4-916
21 4190 4119 4118 49 7 4216 4915 4214 4515 451.5
91 3690 3519 3518 3117 21016 361:3 37111 8713 3714
‘2 9690 2819 9818 2917 2916 2915 3016 9013 3013
711 20520 9019 2113 2111 2110' 2115 2916 2913 9819
91 1190 1119 1218 1217 15l6 1315 1414 1513 1511
‘21 320 419 418 517 016 516 61-11 719 1
90 54-19 5:118 5617 5716 6716 58141 513 5912 59
90 +119 4618 4617 4710 $719 4814- 4815 1919 49
‘30 3419 3518 $617 3716 3715 38141 3915 4019 40
90 9419 11518 2617 2716 2819 2814 2913 8012 31
90 1419 1618 1617 1116 1815 1914- 2013 2112 29
20 319 318 £17 610 715 814 915101811
19 5118 5917 55116 64-15 5614 6713 5812 5912
19 5918 4-017 4116 Q19 4-414 4513 461! 4711 48
I9 9718 9817 9916 3015 5791-1- 3313 34-119 551! 57
.19 1418 1517 1716 181:) 1914- 91315 9119 9311 ‘24»
1')?
4731'021
—~
he]
(,9
ea
cl
I '1
PRIMUM MOBILE.
326
TABLES
OF
DECL'INATION.
North Latitude.
2
ll
55
Ill
Ill
81
4115.
[In
I.
66
6-9
55
‘19
43
8200
II
111-
111
ll-
.llal
ll
]:
.
l!!-
Illl
I.)
PRIMUM MOB! 1.31 327
TABLES
011
South latitude.
1
0 1 2 s 4 5 1 6| 7| 8
511). 114.1). 84.13. M. 11. M. 1). 1111.1). M.|D. 1WD. M.|D. M 11. M
020 1919 1418 1611 1116 1815 2014 2115 2212 2111 26:10
120 019 118 811 416 515 114 619101212111429
219 4118 4811 5016 5115 5214 5419 5512 51115211 128
919 33l8 3511 9616 9815 3914 4119 4212 4411 4610 4221
419 1918 2117 2216 2415 2614 211-5 2912 3111 3210 8526
519 518 111 816 1015121413191512 1111 1910 2125
(HS 5011 5216 5415 5614 5819 5919 112 911 510 Q24
_118 9511 9816 9915 4114 4919 4412 46114810 50 9 5 2a
818 2011 2216 2415 2614 2819 2912 9111 3510 95 9 9122
918 411 616 815 1014 1219 1412 1611 1810 20 9 2221
1011 4816 5015 5214 5419 5612 5812 111 910 5 9 120
1111 9216 9416 9614 3819 4012 4211 4510 48 9 49 8 51191
121115161115 2014 2213 2412 2611 2910 319 93 8 9518
1316 5616 015 914 513 812 1011191015911 8 2011
1416 4115 4614 4519 4812 511155110 56 9 5a 9 18 916
1516 2415 2614 2819 3112 9411 96110 99.9 41 a 44 1 4615
1616 615 614 4119141211111910 229 24 8 21 1 9014
1115 4814 5019 5912 56“ 5911 114 49 1 810 11419
1815 2914 5213 9512 98114110 49 9 46 8 49 1 52 6 5512
131511141419 1112 20112910 25 9 2a a 911 94 6 9111
1014 5212 5512 5812 111 410 1910 8_19 116 61910
2114 8813 9612 9911 4210 459 488 511 546 516 09
221414191112 20112910 26 9 29 8 92 1 95 6 98 5 418
2819 5112 5812 111- 410 1 9108151 16619 5 221
2419 9412 98114110 449 488 51 1 516 516 06 96
{51.114121111112110 249 28 a 511 25 6' 38 5 41 4 44_._5
2512 94115911110 49 8 8111 156186 224 95,4
E12 3911 9610 999498 11 506 545 5151425i
2812 19111110 209 24 8 26 1 916,25 5 :11 4 423 462
ﬁll 5210 5610 09 48 11116155 11422_s 26_1_
J_0 91103593984914665115544514195|11
_-.__
3213 I'MMUM MOBILE.
‘ TABLES
' or
DECLINATION'.
North Latitude.
o 1 I 2 3 l 4 5 b' 7 81 9 [1
mo. 114.11. 14.10 M.o. 1111.11). M1). M.D. M10. no. 111.». Lil—J
7111 $112 21115 2514 1915 1516 1111 118 $18 5919 :00
111 912 613 11s 9114 5.115 11616 4511 41m .1119 33291
210 48!! 4512 411s 36H- 5215 2816 2411 2018 has 2198
810 26“ 2112 1915 14l14 101s 6l6 215 5817 6418 411,211
410 bll 111 51112 s2|15 48“ 4415 4010 sanii 1s 21
s 9 4510 5911 9512 311,13 ‘36 L4 2215 1816 14.17. 18 4
119 21111 1111 1:112 ‘81: 414 014 351.5 5116 4511 4121
1 s 1111 9 51110 5111 4612 4213 3114 5.115 2815 2‘11 was
_6- s 3119 32104281! 2512 191111414 1015 516 016 51,22
9‘s 1:1 9 1010 on 111 6619_5Ql$ 4114 4215 3:11: 5221
111 1 ~51 a 4-1 9 42110 91.111 3312291: 2111 1.01» Hlﬁ o
111 1211 8 2191111101411 912 .115 013 5 14 5015 4
i? 1 a s o s 55 9 5110 4611 @2112 311:1 5211 2115 221:1
‘13 6 42 1 31 a a2 9 2810 2511 1912 1413 914 414 11911
i4 619 1138 s19 510 010 51415112 461: 4114 as s
is s .614 s 5‘ 1 4 a 4:- 9 5110 9511 '1: 2:113 18114 1315
119 :26 2 1 2 8191111111111 1112 012
176 26 1 119585119 41,10 4111 Sol?
54 46536 511 a a 21s 2010 1111 .1212
.19 4 22 s 18 s 12- 1 a s a 9 52,10 41:11
51:1 5114 5464*)»; 1141 31111 51922110 2111
213 $54 309 956 201 1‘ a 160 5,110 m
225114152'55172141aa'1910
£52 41:; 454 ass 8.16 2311 298 129 1.1110
5212213114115 91, bsu1st1849
.959 09555 504455 5 685113052 9
5313112513‘26421611611*1~ea 8
211122 19 25s14 525 416 427358
12110 481-4112 311113214211!) 2361 11-‘8
290211 192115 94 44 595:, 64 1
500 00 5.111 5012 4.15 40 4 335 ads "'1
1 ' l l l l l
_____‘¢__‘~— -_¢ _\_._4 7"“; _ _ .- — w
v,“ -___ -—- __ — _ ~:J-" _‘._ “A
PRIMUM MOBILE. 329'
TABLES
0F,
DECLIVATION
l .
So111h Latitude.
|o 1 213 4 5 6 7 8 9
MEMJLMLLMD.M1).1\111.1~1D.M.11.1\11).M.u.M.
'“1191105593911437410-“115514514 13.1:10
111 91011 9 Isa 22 1 '25 6 2:1 5 524 51's 41‘ 2 4429
21104119 638628 1'1 41> 1151511052112 2111:
81|0969318557396456-1-7451356‘259‘2897
7,1059 981471:62:52143083495814296
.119 438 471591; 516 c514 8312’! 111219511.
719218257306540111144134025015505924
78588 31 7s1151541932392112205/13
883674(16M5494-5J357312 51101111529
98l37476215214-303412391430470a,“
1107516555n95 4+ 1131921119102 0:120'
111126395974518462501550500Howie
n21 [>6 95144183212 211320361011115135'
{1364954114513555 02-11 901404913717
l§61952.;4|21:35223114104-60 91521/lo'
155565 111151021511902409312922315
kn5q;;,111118412571520510005111592‘nl-1
'17,.414319224121103;02411921531013
1‘ ‘—<
11; Shlﬂﬁb‘l 11.50l004714223333312
119 372321704101~19253055611
j‘10 3:2 111111011031134998595412111
1,91 2291110190 "111572523474429
1‘1? 211121021022112.2205154,105as
(-1 1511-0510 90531482433884385987
1 ‘12111330221172113214945711520
- 1.10 9041149231,:13142615216165
01110151102 531355;)4-5054564111
01103913-122'19-214195116 9.7 4%
10 1'1315112323471425576897212
03ll‘2'1‘22l3164-11566 15501511
056150945340435590695|7211fii150
l1 l L
X:
PRIM‘UM MOBIL!
330
TABLES
‘OF
DECLINATION.
15H.
North Latitude.
1.
all?
..
.ﬂl
09
U7
0
09
,
.
Mined.
9
So.
21—111
w.
49
2h
_
X
51
.14.
M
b
28
.J
59
his
9:7
11...»;
.3
W
15
L
1.32
15
5
4.2
U.
“5
HA.
5?
17
06
.95
+3
35
22
00
192?
i.
,.
n5
2...].1
it"
50
:3
45
89.|
M260
.12
53
2
31
#2
.mM
55%.“
I.
5
oh
)5
+4
39
.2211
00
12
22
33....
It]..-
..1
I
.
.9
O
O:
18
C4
1o.
L?
.
.
Uc;
.a.
07
7..
M2].
mlbq‘
.8
.Z
41.1.03
LL.
.Dl
9513;.
Lb6554..+
+3
22110)ll
.23
.33
444
ll.
.2.
.D
73
.00..
.L
c
U4
We)
.5
..
“t
4..
MW“.
4%...
5M...
4
.3
4m.
2
1u..
M
5M
L35
D.
)514
33
.32
..L..l
00
22
3464.055
.
l
:11.
.43
8i.
.9
.15
Titelmm.‘
qwo'
M
a...
+2
5
14
31
M1
13
A.
24.
0M
5
L44..03
92
9.1
00
0.1
33
4.53.5
666
Allolhlimqu.
.l
.1
:1
2.!
3.19.]
11;
50
1.0..
1:,
.t
M4:150.
L.
1,9
1:».
.9l
2&-
3
.Dl
.3
4.
2
41
L33
22
0.1
10.
.00
lo.
33
ha.
45
66
777
l.Dl.AA.Uiu
.2
v.
be.
.7
7|
Fl
57
the;
Pl?
3
M49.0314
2
4.13
l
14
951
14..
24
LUZIIlOWIO
011
23
$45656
77
888
lv?
.00.
i.
217
4.89.
Dru
47
0
H6799
Min.
3
1
55
L.
S
.1
18
19515
111100000
1122
31,
55
o
88
89.9
1.5127159?00
37
51
92
i
9l8+wm|l
N55
1
A.
"25
13
05
.3
as
.0
95.13
LOOJ001112233
#6
66.0
99
900
.t
r
h
.,
lF‘l
.
,D
4.]
la
50.
3r0
.08l
5‘
ggl
MQWMW50241352
35
9b
94.
9
00001129233
at.
$5
T7
78
Nmmll
..rl
l
L.
7
ad
01
“n5
0
.073
“.0...
1M.
o
-1.
~11
2
_o.2_9m£_w
.r
1111141111 1110191111.. 331.
TABLES
' OI
DECLINATION.
South Latitude.
1011 2314511117|3|91
-.-0. 11.50 111.1). 11.19; MAI). M. 1). M11). 111.11). 111.111. 11.11). 111.1—
00 00 .11 1 1112 4519 101. 355 90111 251 2118 1511—11
10 911122115 914 1 1 595 5110 491 “Is 39129
2 0 181119 2 as a 1194. 2» 5 223—618'115i8 819 5211
511212 1:1 29 511 .12 11 416 421 91|a 3119 211121
11 9152 31:1 21 1 21.911167111111111 1199 11025
5 2 o 2 55 3 110+ 4.115 441 6 so a 21.91111101425
’82 21919 1.1. 5 9‘6 4 6 11911 5111 41119 1110 9912
7'! 47 3 42 4 S7 5 $26 27 7 92 8 l? 9 [9110 7H 29‘
719111 b 5 15 1111's 511 9618 119 51110 11111 201'
93 as 4 29 .1 24 6191-115 11 1019 510 0,111 5.111110
105 511 4 .19 a 4.9 1, 4.91 59 a s1 9 2910 2211191214
1141 2 s 11 e 12 1 1's 9 s 511 9 5.110 4911141112 90
'15 9 411 5 41 o 31 1 51 a 211 9 21-111 115111 11112 1111.9 13111
15 s 9 e 5 1 0 1 5.5 s so 9 4:410 4:111 35,12 9911's 25,11
T1 1 :13 e 29 1 21 a 19 9 1110 9T51111-11112 5111;,- 4911.1
11, 5 56 s 52 1 41 a 12 9 .9110 9.1111 21-112 29,19 111111- 19.13
E e 19 1 11 s 119 510 010 56111 .1112 4-615 1114. 36'14
11 e 911 31 s 92 9 2810 2311 1912 141:1 914 415 .019
E 1 b s u a 1.1 9 5110 41111 42:19 91|19 21211 211.1 2911
19 1 211 a 2:1 9 1910 11,11 912 551.9 0119 55,11 511111- 1.6.le
9T) 1 bl‘B 41 .9 4210 91-11 9212 2811.1 2911 111115 IS‘lb 9111
9| 1; '19 9 910 .111 0111 1:112 5115 4-614 41115 31116 9213
"‘ a 96 9 99111 2111 2:112 .1113 1114 111.15 dilG 1111, as:
25 e as 9 5110 51111 46]? 4219 9114 99215 29116 2911 111‘
9.; 9 21‘10 1111 1112 8'13 414 0.11 55115 51116 4.,‘17 ~10 6
y_-, 9 +910 5911 9 12 911119 2111 22115 19116 11111 9111 53
511,10 6111 111 5112 5213 4814- 44;!51 40.16 51417 3MB ‘26]
' 11o 961M 2:112 191.9 1111 1015 em 2;“; 511111 119.111 1113
\ 111 41111 4,112 1119 2111-1 9215 211111 24.11 2o|1s 15,1910 2
911 912 619 219 6814 5115 11016 46.17 42119 21119 232:1
m,,11~:a112 2119 2311 19:15 15111 1111 119 91111 .1919 91:2
1| l 1 l 1 1 ’l i
X
332. ' rarmm 1110151111.
TABLES
OF
DECLINATION. .
North Latitude.
I O l I ‘2 I 3 4— ‘ 5 6 I 7 I 8 1 9
E“). M. 1). 1111.11. 111.11) M l)._M 1). 1111.11. N111). 11.111. M.|U. 111
‘0115111035 9 398 412740 5 504.514 5:1 1:1 550
111 5210 5510 09 4s 111151.55 154 2232129
7121511111020 9 24 11 2s 1 515 25 5 as 4 42 s 4121
:112 55113110 409 44 a 4s 1.511; 5.1 5 55 5 211121
1125111581! 110 4 9 5 8117 15 1511-" 5 2'2 4 591
5i1‘114121211 2110 24.9 98 a 317 25 ass 5 42 4 4525
11111 51112 911114110 44 9.411 11 5? 1 51 5 51 5 1 5 5114
113 5112 5212 111 410 1 910 a 1:11 11’ s 20 5 2425
8% “It: l7l2 Hull 23“) 9o 9 ‘19 3 32 7 12" o 39 .5 4112‘
914 3315 01112 5-1211 4210 41 9 45 s .511 54 s 51 a (,91
714 5212 5512 51112 111 410 1 910813 115 51920
1115111414151112 2011 2:110 25 9 2118 s11 31 6 3112
i215 2214 3213 5512 211114110 45 9 45 a 49 1 52 5 5511.
1315 4814- 5115 5512 51115211 110 49 1 111011511
1415' 51;, 81511111 1112 1111 1010 22 9 2111.21 1 3015
15|15 2415 21-111 2910 12 11111 01.10 s9 9 41 s 44 1 115
i315 4115 4.115 41113 41112 51115s10 5112 511 9 18 114
l7l6 51115 015 214 .513 912 1011 1:110 15 01111 2015
1911 15111 1115 20112213 2412 2111 2910 31 2 as a 3511
10.11 2215 51415 01.11 321:1 4012 4211 4510 4~ <1 49 s 5111
_.______--__ ‘J.
2011 4815 5015 5211 5115 51112 51112 1111 :10 _:5 9 110
211111 411 111; 1115 1014 121a 1412 111111 1310 20 9 22 Q
EIIS 2011 2215 2115 21; 14 2s12 2912 :1111 51:10 :15 9 s1 5
251m 3511 2115 2015 4111 411111 1112 41111 4510 50 9 521
271118 5011 5211, 5115 51111 belt) 5212 112 21 510 1 5
2519 518 111 1115 101'» 1214 1:115 1:112 1111 1910 21 5
W12 19111 2111 2:115 2q-15 2514 211» 2012 5111 .5210 25 1
4111;111‘3310 21511 5015 21115 3.1111 4113 4212 4411 4510 4a 9
@119 41111 41111 bO'lo 5115 11214 5112 51112 5111 .5911 12
2920 019 11s 'slw 415 .515 114 8151019 12in 141
_ 56.20 1319 lilrc 15111 1115 11115 2014 21111 2212 24|11 251
_‘--_I_4.,-. L I I I I I I
DECLIN‘ATION.
PRIMUM MOBILE.
TABLEé
OF
North Latitude.
11‘ l l 2 l 3 4 5 81‘
Em. 111.11). ~1 Q]. 9121. M. L). M. l). M i). . 111.10.
1
_.J
Ml
_11
12
1‘2
171
Ill 52‘
15
.‘112'
l2 2;
1:1
19
[94-8
9
29
13
IS
2314
4! H
I 9
4-0
1.5
15
I5
36:
16
16
ll
85
l7
l7
18
19
5919
9190
54%
16,29
11
I4
015
9»I5
I
91
lb
[6
671
18
lb
['1
51
11
[7
IS
19
20
4‘2 ‘11)
9 90
-_.4
373111
582;
l2
I3
:1;
l4
ll)
H
5U
H
l4
I5
41'
7
15
IS
49
l}
16
I7
s9,
01
I7
17
35
511
la
18
90
20
24 21
41.59l
19%
402.5
13
19
264
61
H
M
:5]
5]
27
4-]
lb
I5
10
I15
24
44
17
17
201115
min;
I?
37
19
l9
ll (1‘12
96. ‘22
l 4
2112.1
ll—
14
H
5“,
T5
15
11
SO
7
26
11>
16
1'!
l7
4
23
18
18
0‘18
20119
57
I?
19
'20
'31
9?
40; ‘22
‘13
4212‘:
9'9!
O
@(l'
JCI'r-b
115'?
114
15
ll
5‘4
H
16
l6
4‘)
5
4b
4
115
l7
2!
1
[8
42
l
[8
18
39'19
‘ 58:19
361
55
90
20
‘2‘2
.22
2'3
‘23
2920
4 l9
[2
IS
15
15
29
48
I6.
16
90
4-5
I?
I7
25
49
18
18
90
39
19
l9
17
36
20
80
[41
Sf:
21
il 23
EM
‘241
9 I81
21 I?
I4
15
IS
16
O
‘24
[7
IT ‘71
18
18
U
18
181
IS
57
l5
19
.211
54'
1‘2
20
.21
1
1 b
10
‘21
2‘2
93
24
* ‘24
Q4
4011
58 I5
1'1 lo
17 16
M
613
17
17
58
.55
18
[8
30 l9
l9
35
5|
211
Q1)
.‘10
48
2|
9]
.2‘2
1‘37 40
‘24
‘34
19 ‘2.)
37' 25
16 I4
311“; _
1411
19111
1:
.92
IU
18 ‘29
19
[9
‘2011
211-1
4 t1
4
1:1
[9
4-0 [9
20
90
‘20
1}
2.5
20
'IO
4 l
517
21
‘Zl
2‘1"
21
.5 22
93".!9
" 23
‘l3
"‘24
‘25
.7 '15
96
59H?
Iﬂll
3‘)
55
2‘2
‘22
£3 ..,
‘ 23 48
:25
‘25
29
46
'20
96
24:10
44} 9
1E 18
29 18
EU
35
I?
19
11.5
$4
'20
20
‘11
2|
121
99
‘22
22
I1
97
‘23
23 ‘24 ‘2] ‘26
‘37
1927
1‘ 1.
17 7
E18
2519
511
5
19
90
4-9
5
20
21
91
29
4-51
0
2‘2
‘22
43
59 93
25 9%
"24
37
f1?
96
‘26
35
50
97
97
35
48
O
26”
9719
I9
33
20
‘20
17
3]
'21
91
22
2‘2
I4
‘28
25
‘25
12
‘26
:H
94
‘25
.' 25 2| 27
‘18
19 28
5
l7
2'1 19
29 90
4-7 20
20
4-5
59
“ll
‘21
22
22
4-2 23
56,29
40
54
‘MI
24
39 95
‘35
3.5
49
‘27
27
33 28
47 ‘28
EH
451'
3" 90 21 1‘2 92 23 9 2+ 7 95 2b ‘28 l99 U
334 I'RIM'UM MOBILE.
TABLES
6!
DECLINATION.
North Latitude.
0 l 2 3 4 5 I
or
u. M.|U M 1). M11). M. M. l). M. D. M. D. M. 1). M M
90
20
119
919
14
97
18
18
10
98
17
I7
17
99
16
16
18
50
15
15
20
59
14 91
14 SS
15
13
9‘2
95
T2
12
‘1-1
36
11
11
20
S7
90
20
519
519
39
51
18
18
4U
.59
17
17
4-1
63
lb
16
42
51
15
1.5
4-4
55
1-1- 4-5
14 57
13
13
410
511
12
12 49
‘11 49
‘21
‘71
1120
18 0
19
19
3
15
18
18
4
In
17
17
5
1'1
16
16 18
15 8
15 1914 19
13
13
10
‘20
12
12
11
91
21
21
‘23 0
SS 90
94
34
19
19
2:1
85
18
18
20
86
17
17
16
16
98
88
15 ‘28
15 88
14
14
29
as
15
15
30
40
1?
1‘2
51
41
21
21
43 20
53 0
4-4
54
19
19'
45
55
18
18
6b
56
17
17
"16
16
47
57
1'1
14'
15 48
15 58
49
58
13
13
50
59
12
13
50¢
40
are:
now—~8r
29
99 11
20
20
4
12
19
19
b
131
18
18
I7
17 14
15
15
16
16 14 15
14-“
14 15
13
15
So»
m
:35
l
10 l
1921
2721
19
98
'20
90
20
28
19
19
’21
‘28
18
18
17
17
22
29
16
16
22
29
15
15
23
30
14
14
93
90
13
13
92
99
3691
4121
55
41
:50
90
36
41
19
19
S5
41
18
18
17
17
56
49
15
15
86
16 4Q 43
11
14
S7
451
13
13
92 4791
5891
47
55
90
90
4-7
53
19
19
47
53
18
18
17
17
48
b4
16
16
4-8
54
15
15
49
.55
14
H
49
55
13
IS
-|--—|-~|--
0:
~10
U'nl
(9'0
0
NM—0
22
25
5921
4.
59 90 59
4
19
90
59
4
19 18
18
(1 16
16
17
17 15
14
_2s
98'
9122
15,22 13
21
21
9
18
20
20
9
15
19
19
184
18
10
14
171
I7 1416 14 15
In
1-1
'0N! 95
U 13
17‘)
202
17
90
91. 17
90
20
20
1 7
90
19
19
18
18
17
20
17 17 16
17 90 ‘
16
17
2(1
15
l5
17
90
14
14
1'1
14
Q4
25
25
93
232
969
23
26
21 25
26
20
90
95
96
19
19
I“ 18
18
2:
21;
I7 23
'2' 26
16
16
23
26
u
‘26
.125 14
14'
'-~p--_—~p
93 98 92
2
28
SO
21
91
28
30
90
20
211
30
19
19
18'
18
‘28
.17
17 26
30
lb
16
2h
30
H
11'
2M '13
98
alien
5:22
a
01
SI
‘21 31 20
81 20
31
31
19
19 31
18
18
31
31
17
17
.‘11
31
16
16
31
31
14
14
2M) 93 59122 39 21 as,20 39 19 31 18 3‘.‘ I7 3910' 32
15
15
15
15
28
30
15
15
31
31
15‘ 52 H
:-‘.,
:
PRIMUM momma. 335
TABLES
0F
DECLINATION
South Latil111112.
a
4- 5 (1 7 8 9
1). M10. M. I). M.D. M D. M '1). M.
5 'i '25 .‘ “1‘1 I
I 7 7 I 28 I I
' 28 27
4. 5 44 4 98 29
07551" '. 5198
'7 ' 29
I11“ 1129
I99
3 99
47 29
57 29
(~30
1'30
- 50
A.“
Div-P
lg
1;;
I»
d. :71
0‘
01
01
9
K1
01
Q6
'6
»1
w
v-vi'
;§;______
v5."
\ﬂv’
IQN,
IQ“
21124.
2 2+
‘JI‘Z-i- 'JI 3|
31.94- 3] Si
32 ‘24 5“
eae YRIMUM MOBILK.
TA‘B LES
O-F
RIGHT ASCENSION.
North Lalitude.
2 1 3
i
4 1 5 t)~ 8 9
u. M.1u. M11). M11). M. D. M. r). M. QT l) M.
359 15358 49 55:1 20
8 359 4-4 559 90
0
3:315
358
l
56
561' 37
3.58 32
21.37
£5588
550
357
lb‘ 46 3,6
45,451
23
18
3
58
u
l
39
34
1:)
10
J59
O
51
40
.359 ‘27
0
369
959
Or,
558
$55)
I)
59
581
341
1 .b
2559
13
9
5.1
4H
I)
~ 2:1
21
5
0
wi— 41
81
l?
12
023
411
29
94
0
0
4
59
‘/5
4..
38
1'3
14 231 51
9.
7
Q
43
SB
1?
l4
1
‘1
51
4-9
Q“
019'
4*“
w—
:0
21
5.:
- v
v
28
B
4
45
40
‘21
11 ‘52
57 33
‘28
9
4
‘H
59
23
18
by
55
2-5
ill
11
7
47
43
‘13
l 1*
5:1
5_.
b4
30
Kind
“0'
are.
(rt:-
._.(-|#
13
. ,
11
11
9
Em
one
~10.
01+
u
61 27
2‘2
‘00
(Dd
01%
1}“
3
55
we:
~io~
’J-i-
+v.
to.—
ca:
~10.
u~+
um
-¢
16
10
00-4
010'
UIi~
{bib
~G
51
4t)
20'
92
'1?
1.5
12
13
m
lo
l7
[-1
15
41 21:
11-.
19
16
11
51
l
11 4‘1
58
16
I4
:5 b l
50
11) 5w 4':
88
‘0
02“
0.91
$00
10
18
16
[:7
53
115
1'11
LH
31)
1 (f
(v
12
13
4;
49
ll
19
.68
5-1 E:
81
50
11
1‘2
10
6
75
El
18
IO
49
45
15
IS
2h
92 5!:
H
I5
15
It
51
47
:u 2'!
2f}
13
13
3
.59
75
93
20
21
18..
4|
37
l?
18
16
14
64
5|
19
‘20
'24
25
22
'35 47
35
$0
19
‘30
11
,_...
__
.-...
_._.
._.._
.
100:
~41u~u~
r“
00—
slow“
mu»
+u
who
—-¢
45
| 1.)
16
117
18
41
4» I
5;.
35
as:
\I
18
90 14 56
17.15 53
l4
)1
16
17
50
47
"21
99
27
24
21.
99
‘20
‘2‘21
42
39‘
19.
90 ’ 2&
19
10
3‘2 61
5
[U
19
41
4|
’1?
21
1‘24
25
4‘4
4 |
‘28 25
[‘1 IO
38
SF,
‘25
‘2-1
21122
I 919.3
59 2e 30
94; ~12
‘21
99
2‘]
95
‘.'1
29
3
1
2'0
‘91
$9
37
~15
‘26 -
lo
I?!
‘24
‘25
54‘
51
31
$9
23
‘11
40193
41m
23 2‘8
21 23
b9
57
1‘21
199
$5
3‘
0‘0 31
27 ll ‘26 42125 1921 50 2+ 59
1
——-— —n= _n-_._ kmk-A'h 1_e
111111111111 2101113. ' 337
TABLEé
OF '
RIGHT ASCENSIOIL'
South Lﬂitude:
_ 0 l 2 3 4. 5 0' 7 s 9 .
mo. M.D. 112.1). 114.1). M.D. M.D. M 0.14 1). M.D 1111.1). M.
00 00 2.2“; 471 “1351599 2:12 473 122216]
110 5:11 111|1 422 62502549 1854241 6430‘
21 5021512 1172 122654241222751526
22 4-23 115225 66420-1466 115926 566 20
43-104 34214515 155396 116276 61’] F5
54 364- 535 466106 316 527 227 468 2
66%2616186427 (17507538 1784l9 4
76 256 42712737318210429129 369 59
117 217 “a 112 228 .569 202 4:10 710 31110 as
is 16 a 409 4 9 229 5110 1210 3:11 211251146
109119 95 9 11910 2210 46“ 1011:1311 57121912 42
#110 6L0 .2010 Ml! 11111 4112 :3l‘2 212 59191413 :17
1211 -211 T2311 4912 1312' 3013 01:1 2213 4714 914 32
1511 5712 2012 4-415 111:1 211:1 65H IBM 4115 415 27
1112 519 1612 3214 21+ ‘26“ 5015 1111a 2616 51316 21
L513 4-8141 1211- 3114 .6815 2115 4-5l6 816 3116 54171
[6141 414-15 715%16 53161616 4017 217 2617 1218 11
L715 2016 2162516 41111 1117 2 17 611111 21111 4419
111-116 3516 MN? 2117 4112 718 2012 5519 1619 3920 1
112117 5117 5111! 17111 1.012 219 2519 61120 1120 .2420 as
{2019 27]1u 611121312 21119 6820 2120‘4621 621 2921 61
21111 25‘19 4620 920 9320 542! 1721 3922 222 2422 46
‘
‘20 21190 425 ‘21 b 2! 98 21 50 ‘2? I? 99 34- 93 b7 93 I! ‘23 4-1
i9] 16?! 38 ‘2‘2 IQ? 9‘29 4195 8‘25 5023 521‘31' I491- 36
‘29 12122 35 ‘22 57 23 90 ‘23 4‘2 94 4 9% 26 ‘14 48"?!) IO 95 8
-' 23 9‘73 3123 53 ‘24 ‘ 1625 33 95 025 9125 4396 526
1
M +
£26121 621 21121 509.) 1225 9425 55:96 1796 3927 o 7 2
.525 225 2525 4725 926 8096 5221 1327 3527 5628 1
121126 6326 2226 11521 627 252'! 411211 9211 am 6129 1
119196 5.27 1927 402; 123 22221422 529 2629 4730'
£22 511211W32a 2122 51129 1929 4.150 1.10 221111 42:11
1 I I l
2..
Y7
%~--~~-\
338 muzmm uomu.
TAB L‘ES
0P
RIGHT ASCENS-ION.
North Latitude.
w . 19
+0
41 41
+2 42
43
4-4 H
#5 l5 _ ‘
to 1.5 mi“ 501
n $7 ‘ ‘ 3! 16 l ' 51'
18 w 1
9 4 w \
so 4
51 5| 51
5? .54 )‘Z
1 5 55
Miss 54- 4
1956 355 s
2 51 7.56 523356
-__._
izl
-,~Oﬁ'dl‘h
WM"
1
l
l
l
l
I
1
l
l
l
9]
_-v-n--n
b
++->
-
a
k'
—~)
an:
21111111111 110511.11. 339
TABLES
OF
RIGHT ASCENSION.
South Latitude.
0 1 .2 3 4 5 | o 7 a
1). 111.1). M. 1). 114.11. M M.|D. M.D. M . M.
1 211 :1: 1 40'30 1 1
1 29 1 3730 5 1
1 s1 1 31 2431 s
1 ea 1 1 2113-: bl
2, mm 41
2131
El 35
“5'36
1 7
ll
'1 4-1
4-2
M
5
(6
~17
+7
48 ' 4-9
49
6 50
6 5|
7 52
63
54
ll 55
56 l 56
7 7
58 lb 58
I
L2
l3
14
7'5
*6
17
88
340 ramuu mmu.
TABLES
o;
RIGHT, ASCENSION.
North Latitude.
5
‘10
71
7‘2
73
7+
76
1‘7
ramuu momma. TS-II
TABLES
0'
I111ch ASCENSION.
South Latitude.
342 11111111111 110311.12.
TABLES
0F
RIGHT ASCENSJ‘ON.
North Latitude.‘
0' 1 213 4 5 0' 7 a 1 9
0.110.111). M.D. 11.11.1111). M.D. 111.1). 111.0. 111.11. M.
900900960900900900900900900900
915916917917917918919919911091“
921111212 9214 9214 9215 9210 9218 9218 9220 9222
93111 93 l: 93 20 93 21 93 23 93 24 93 2o 93 27 93 59 93 82
941 2‘2 94- 21 91- 97 94 2d 91 30 94 32 911 35 94 36 9+ 259 94- 4‘."
95 27 93 30 95 55 95 $5 95 S8 95 40 95 48 95 45 9b 49 95 52
963‘) 9630 9639 9642 9645 96489051 9654- 9658297 2
9788 9742 974-5 9749 9752 9756 98 098 $98 8198121
984;; 9847 98519855 99 0 99 4 99 U 9912 9917 9921
99 4t- 99 b‘.‘ 99 57100 ,1 100 7100 12 [00 lb 100 21100 20 100 31
100 5:100 58 lOl 3101 81111 14101 19101 24101 30101 3.510140
10! 58102 4102 9102 15102 21102 26102 39102 38102 44102 50
108 :1 NB 9103 15103 21 103 27103 33103 40103 416103 531108 69
104 8104- l4lO-1- 211041 27 [04 54104 41 KM 4810-1- 551105 2105 9
105 13106 19106 27105 3.2105 41105 48106 66106 $106 11100 18
106 l7 “36 2'1 106 89106 39106 4-7106 56 107 3107 11107 19107 27
107 22107 29107 38107 4.6107 53108 2108 11108 1?) 108 28108 36
108 211 l08 34108 43.108 53 108 59109 9 l09 181109 21l09 86109 45
15109 31109 39109 48109 67110 51.10 15 110 25 110 34110 44-110 54
19110 55110 34110 53111 3111121112211132111142112 52112 2
411111391114911158112 811218l12291123511250113 011311
11119 43112 53113 3113 151152-11133.311311011357114 811419
2911347113571111 811418114301H4111552115 41151511527
8311451115 1115 13l1523115351154-7115581161011622111635
Q4115 54-116 51161711021111641116 52117 411717117 29117 42
25llﬁ 57ll'7 9117 21117 33ll7 46117 5811810118 23118 96118 49
11613118 911113 38118 51119 11119111119 29119—15119 56
'5
~01!
Q0
1.1-»
one
-c
81
83.2513
q
2h 115 l
1371“) 4119 16119 29119 4-2119 561120 8 l2!) 22120 35120 49121 3I
211120 7120 19120 33120 41» [‘10 591121 15121 27121. 41121 55122 10‘
‘2“ 121 912122121 36121 50122 3112218192 32122 47125 1112310
110122 12122 25122 3" 122 .63'1‘25 '71123 22123 37 l2!) .5211‘24- 7124 22
—-'< ' M' _‘~___. N
PRIMUM MOBILE.
TABLES
O'I’
RIGHT- ASCENSION.
soum Liliﬂlde‘.
343
C l t; 3 4 5 (i 7 11 g)
D. M.l). .1). M,D..M U. M. D. M. I). M D. M.l). M l). .3
900
915
5’1)
91
1'0 0
91 5
900
914
90 0
91 4
90 0
91 3
90
91
90
91
90
91
90
91
9911
9516
92
93
92 10
93 14
92 8
93 1‘2
92 8
9311
92 o
939
9‘2
93
3‘2
92
92
93
9‘2
93'
0
2
4
6
91- 22 a
95 27
94
9!!
91111
95 2s
94 11>
95 211
9-11 L5
95 13
94 12
96 15
941
’95
94
95 1
9+
~95
94
95
‘84
9+
MO
‘25
96 3!
97 5‘3
90
97
96 21
97 31
96 24
97 ‘28
96 21
97 25
96 18
97 21
~‘96“12
97 14
96
97
1'6
9'7
10
19
96
97
98 45
99 48
98
99
89
45
98 35
99 39
98 32
99 35
98 28
99 91
98 211
99 26
98
99
98 10
99 18
98
99
13
14
90
99
100 53
101 58
100
101
48
551
100
IOI
100 89
101 4‘2
100
101
100 S4
|0| S7
100 29
101 39
100
[01
' I110 20
101 2‘2
lu
17
100
101
.-..
-
:
-q
mg:
~10
0-1.:
mo
. M;
'12-
:E
1009
4:21;";-
1.91:
—c
103
104
10‘!
1041
57 102
103
102 45
103 49
102 4-0
103 4-5
102—211
1119 26
I112 34
105 37
102 29
108 31
102
103
18
90
10‘!
15 10:1
12:
14
I4~l05
[5106
105
106
13
17
105
106
101 5‘1
105 56
104 441
105 419
104- 3::
105 35
1041 40
105 49
104 ‘27
105 ‘28
104
105
21
29
1041
105
IO
15
1:3
Hill)?
17 108
107
108
2‘1
96
IO“!
[09
I2
18
[06 [:9
108
[00' 62
107 5.5
106 4-5
107 47
10d 37
l07 3‘)
106 30
107 92
106
1 07
‘23
94
I116
I117
113
1.5
161109
19110
31
35
109
HO
2!?
26
109
110
109
110
108 5'1
110 O
108 4!
109 4-3
108 4-9
109 51
108 35
109 54
108
109
2b
536
101$
109
111
11
‘11 III
2111‘]
3‘)
43
111
119
30
5:1
Ill
11‘!
111
I12
11
1?
1.10 4-1
111 4'1
111 2
112 4
1105:
11154
110 35
11150
110
111
27
‘27
1 110
111
16
lb
921k)
931111- bl
4-7 113
114
3'7
40
115
114
113
1141
113'6
1H- 8
It:
19
11‘) J1)
115 58
112 4'7
113 45
119 37
113 38
112
115
27
‘28
11?
113
17
17
211116 51
25116 7
23118
27119
115
116
HT
118
4-52
4-6
4‘)
:31
11:3
116
117
HS
115
116
117
118
‘11
‘23
25
‘27
115 10
11619
117 H
118 1'
1H1 59
116
117
[IR
114 4-9
115 50
11b bl
117 5‘1
114 92
115 :19
116 3"
117 22
I111
115
116
117 98117
‘28
‘25
‘28
[H
115
_‘
15
k" 116 17
17
17
1(.v
98190 119
99491 190 56190 43100 30190 17 [20 119 53119 4011‘) 911\119
54-119 1192911916119 11155211840118‘251118
10‘!
a...
39-h 16
1b
!1
30122 121121 611121 121 21121 111121 1211 661211 10 120 21-1120 l!\
' ' 1 ,1
d“
344' 2111111111 11011111., _
TABLES
OI
RIGHT ASCENSION.
Nortthtilndc‘
011-2 314 5 617189
D. M. D. M.1_U. M. D. M11). M.1D. M. D. M. I). M. D. M. D. M.
199 12122 25 122 39129 53123 7193 22193 37 1123 5212‘ 7124
12314199 98128 4-2123 5719411194 26194 49 1.94 57125 12195
12‘ 16194 3112-1 4512.3 0195 15195 80125 46126 9126 17126 21
1
--
¢1¢5T
3125 1819.5 3312.5 48126 5126 18i1‘26 94196 50197 6197 29197
4126 2 196 80126 51127 6 1517 97121 311127 511911 11128 $128
3197 921197 38197 54198 9128 95128 42121! 58129 15199 3-129
6128 21128 40128 50129 19199 28129 451130 2130 19130 36130
_'7129 95199 49 199 as 130 14130 31130 48|l31 51:11 23131 131
9130 26190 43131 0131 1613133131511” 8132 26159 i“
9131 21 151 44192 1 139 18132 35182 63133 1113399133 4'! 134'
10139 28152 45133 9135 20133 87138 5513‘ 14134 2913* 50135 ,
11183 28 1518 4-6136 5134 91134 59 13-1 57155 16 1:15 95135 5313612
l2 131 29134 40 135 4135 22 1:15 40185 59 136 18 1:16 371:» 50' 1:17 |
13135 99155 47136 6136 93196 4-1137 0137 20137 89137 5813817
1'1136 99136 47 1:17 6 1117 '24 137 12 138 1 1511 21 138 41 1:19 0139 11
l_9 137 99137 4-7138 6138 94128 43139 9139 29139 42140 9140
16138 1 1:111 17 1:19 615‘.) 25139 44140 3140 24110 44141 4141 2
>17 13‘) 28159 47140 6140 9514-0 4-51-11 414125141 451-19 614-? YE
111110 98140 41» 141 61419511145142 5142 26112 46143 711-: 27
21412714146149 6142 251412 45143 6143 27143 4714‘ 8144 2
20142 26149 4&14-3 6143 2514.; 4614-1- 6 114 211-11 48 I5 9115 w
2113 95145 44-144 414-4- 9414-1415115 6115 27145 40146 9 116 30
22 11+ 2314143115 3145 21145 4-51-16 01-16 '27 116 43117 10147 :11
2914!! 9914-31 49146 9 146 2311-6 +1117 5 H7 97147 4811810148 31
0
1
P4116 90146 40,117 147 22117 441149 4'148 21; 14s us 101149 8
25141 18147 991148 148 21148 49149 9119 95,149 41150 10150 51
20148 16148 :17 148 5814-9 19119 41150 2150 213160 7151111
214914149 95149 6615017150 @151 I‘m 2:»;151
9315011150 33150 54 151 15151 37 151 59152 221152 $141.55 {—7.7 ‘29
9151 9151 501151 591152 1315211515? 1‘17 153 901153 413154 £154- 28
31)le 6151! 271152 4915311153 331158 5515—1- 18154- “1.35 4155 97
l
’* --" " M .- |
_W .p _. u
. _ \dl.‘ QN —4-~ J
11111110111 moans.
TABLES
OI
RIGHT ASCENSION.
8011111 Latitude.
345
3 4- 5 (i 8 9
0
E11). M1). M1). M.D. M D. M .11. M 1). M.
Z 1). M. 1). 110,
122 12
125 14
121 58
123
121 45
122 47
121 31
122 SS
121 In
192 19
I21
122
120 58
121 55
190 40
121 40
120 28
121 29
12“ lb
121 15
124 1b
125 19
124
125
123 43
124 49
123 84
I21 35
123 20
124 21
123
124
122 58
123 55
122 40
123 99
122 27
123 26
122 11
123 13
126 20
127 2?
126
127
125 51
126 52
125 So
196 50
125 22
126 22
125
126
121 58 124 39
125 59 '
12a 38
124 25
125 24
124 12
125 11
128 24
I29 25
128
129
127 53
128 51
127 57
128 37
127 22
128 22
127
128
126 52
. 126 37
127 51 127 $6
126 23
127 22
126
127
via 31
190 27
130 26
151 27
130
131
129 54
130 54
129 22
130 21
129
130
128 51
129 49
128 35
I29 33
128 20
129 18
128
129
‘a‘QQ
132
[33
132 28
153 28
11131 54
152 54
131 ST
152 37
131 21
“ 20
J
131
132
130 4B
131 47
130 S2
131 81
130 17
131 15
130
130
1
58
134
135
154 29
135 20
11
11
135 54
134 51
135 37
184 96
158
134
132 46
135 45
132 29
133
' 133
134
132 13
133 11
181
132
56
54
136
137
136 29
137 29
11135 55
156 52
135 35
136 31
195
196
125
155
134 45
135 41
134
135
25
23
134 9
155 b
193
134
51
48
138
159
138 29
139 29
137 51
138 50
137 33
138 S?
157
138
136
137 J
136 39
137 S7
136
137
21
19
GI
136 4
137 2
13
42
155
136
’11
51‘:
go
--vo
u+
u-o.
-1~1
qq
~20
me,
140
141
15??)
110 4B
140 27
111 27
139 $0
140 29
139
140
138
189 51
138 35
159 35
158
139
17
15
137 59
178
112
145
112 20
113 24
141 47
142 45
141 27
142 25
111
112
140 49
141 47
110 31
141 28
140
141
12 159
140750
56138 36 .
189
137/39
140 50
144
145
144 23
145 22
143 33
144 41
143.23
144 21
113
144
142 45
143 42
142 2b
143 22
142
2% 143
141
142
47
44
141 27
112 24
21146 90
25147 IR
145
146
145 39
146 97
145 19
146 17
I44
145
144 39
I45 36
144 19
145 16
143
144
59
56
143
144
4“
57
143 20
144 16
»118 10
97149 14
147 '
118
147 14
148 11
147 33
148 32
146
14”
146 53
147 29
146 13
147
I45
146 49
53
_
_$8.
3%...1;
A?
gen
00
o
145 38
146 29
145 12
116 81
97115011
99151
149 8
150 5
501.19 29
47150 90
149
150
146
149
118 26
149 22
148
I49
147 4a
148 42
147 25
148 21
147 4
148 0
@152 15141151 29151 2150 150 21‘ 14-9 59149 31* 17161 1 11855
3316; rnmuu 1101111.:
TABLES
0F
RIGHT ASCENSION.
North Latitude.
o 1 2 s 4 5 6 7 s _
"IO. M. D. M. D. M.1). M.l). M. D. M. D. M. D. M.D. M. D. M.
152 6152 27152 4915311153 33153 55154181541 41155 4155 27
153 4158 95153 47151 154 311511 53 155 16155 39156 3156 26
9
151- 1154- 22151- 44155 6155 99155 5115614156 37157 1157 25
155191.35 41156 3156 26156 4915719157 95157 59158 25
155 51156 16156 39157 1157 2.1157 47 158 111158 33158 57 151' 21
1316 51157 15157 36157 581.58 21158 4-1- 159 8159 31159 5516019”
5
157 48158 10158 83158 55159 18'159 41160 5160 2 160 161 16
158 44159 7159 301.59 5116015160 38161 2161 2:161 49 162 131
111 160 115021150 49161 12161 3?, 151 59152 221162 45 155
150 51 161 01619316] 46162 9162 39152 55153 19163 43161
161 88161 56162 19162 42163 61163 29163 53164 16164 40165
162 29162 52163 1516:} 98166 911611 2516149165 13165 37166
25163 50161- 11164- 31164 58 165 211654-5166 9166 33166
164- 211164 4-1165 7165 30165 5-1 166 18166 49167 167 30167
10
'11
1
5
H 5 5
155 16165 10155 2166 26166 50167 11161 as use 2'168 2515a
166 19 155 35166 59161 2215': 4-6168 10168 341511 58169 22159
4
167 7167 31167 55168 18168 4-2 169 6169 30169 170 18 1'10
168 3168 27165 51169 14 169 38170 2170 26170 171 14171
2
168 58169 29169 46170 9 170 315 170 57171 1171 4 17! 9 172 $4
169 5117018170 49171 5171291715317? 172 41173 5173 30
17
~O
112-»le
—'2
G:r E
I—O
\Om
\IC'
1 U‘50
--
551
_Q.(.0
—_
u-h
2'1 11
,—
~I
170 49171 1917151172 117‘.’ 25172 6917315175 371741 1174- 21
3. B
S
171 44172 8179 172 56 173 90179 44174 174 39174 56175 21
172 89175 3173 9717.9 51174- 1.3174- 39175 175 21175 51176 16
23173 55178 581741 22174- 4617510175 3417i 58 176 22176 4617719
2117-1- 30174- 5317517175 41176 5176 29176 5317717177 41178 7
25175 95175-18176 12176 96177 0177 21» 177 48178121178 36 179 2
@176 20176 45177 7177 31 177 5617819178 43179 7179 31179 57
27177 15177 38178 2175 26178 50179 14179 58180 180 96180 52
28178 10178 3:1 179 57179 21179 4-5180 9180 33180 57181 99181 47
29179 5179 281795218016180 40181 4181 28181 5216917189 49
30180 0180 29180 4-7 1111 1118135181 59189 23182 47183 19183 37
2'
58113551
PaIMUM MOBILE. 347
TABLES
0F
RIGHT ASCENSION.
South Latitude.
0 I 34.56711'9
I). M. I). M. I). M. I). M.D. M.D. M.D. M71). M11). M. U. M.
I59 6
I53 4
15I
152
I50 41
I5I 38
44
41
151
I59
23
20
151 ‘2
I5I 59
‘20
I6
14-9 35
150 34
14‘.) I7
150 15
151)
I51
I49 as 148 56
150 55'! I49 5?
I54- 1
I54 58
I53
I51
38
35
I53
154
I7
I3
I52 55
I53 5I
I59 34
153 30
152
I53
151 9
I52 4
151 511
152 41'
IE
8
I51 30
I59 ‘25
150 48
I5] 4-3
I55 54
I56 5I
I55
I56
I55
I56
I54 26
I55 92
32
29
I0 I54 48
155 44
I54
I55
4
0
155 43
I54 39
153 21
I54 17
I53 0
I53 55
15‘.I 39
I53 33
I57 48
158 44
157
I58
I57
I57
I56 40
I51 36
I56 18
I57 I4
I55
I56
25
‘2?
56
5‘2
I55 34
I56 30
1551?
I56 8
I541 50
I55 46
I54 28
59 155 93
I59 40
I60 57
I59
160
I58
I59
I57
I58
I58 3?
I59 98
158 10
I59 6
18
I4
48
4-3
I57 26
I58 El
157 3
I57 58
156' 41
I57 36
I56 18
157 If)
55
5I
I61 3:;
169 29
Nil
162
160
IGI
I60 9
IO ‘
I60 5
6
47
43
I60 24
16I 20
I59
I60
39
55
159 I7
I60 1‘!
I58 54
159 49
158 31
I59 96
I58 8
159 5
I63 25
164- 20
163
I63
162
165
161 .53
I62 49
2
58
39
35v I62 16
163 I2
IGI
I69
Ibl '7
I62 9
I60 QI
IGI 16
30
25
60 44
61 S9
159 58
160 55
165 16
I66 19
I64
I45
I64
I65
30
25
I64
I65
I63 41
164 39
165
I64
53
48
20
I5
I62 57
163 59
I62 34
163 99
162 II
163 6
16I 48
I62 43
167 7
I68 3
I66
|67
I66
167
2I
I7
I65
I66
44
40
57
52
165 34
166 99
I65
I66
I64 24
165 19
10
5
I64- 4-7
I65 4‘2
I64 I
164 56
163 38
164 35
I68 58
I69 54
I68
169
168
169
I‘I 167
168
167 94
I68 19
I67
I67
166 I3165 51
I67 8166 46
35
SI
47
46
0
55
166 37
I67 39
I65 28
166 95
I70 49
I71 41
I70
I7I
I68 1) 167 4I
168 58168 9
I70
I70
I69
I70
38
33
I69 I4
I70 9
I68
I69
I67 I7
168 19
‘26
21
50
45
168 27
57 I69 ‘29
43
28
TEEI'SF
GzIEEI-Z'Eloc
quu-quw
-o;§'
I79 39
I79 35
I72
I75
I71 4
I71 59
I71
172
5‘2
47
I70
171 55
40 I69 53169 30
I70 48 I70 95
I71
I72
‘28
23
170 17
HI I9
I69 7
I70 I
16
II
I74- 30
I75 25
I74
I75
I73
I74
17‘} 54
I73 50
I72 30
I73 26
I72 7
I73 9
171 43171 90
I72 88 I72 15
42
38
I73
I74
6
2
18
I4
I70 56
I71 51
'I7t- 90
I77 I5
I75
I76
I73 33173 10
I74 98174 4
I79 45
I73 40
57
52
I75
I76
53
‘28
I75
I76
I74 45
I75 40
I74 21
175 I6
I73 57
I74 52
I78 10
I79 5
I77
I78
115 29114 59
176 1a 115 54'
I74 31
I75 ‘29
176 35
117 30
4-7
42
I77 23
I78 III
176
I77
59
54>
I76 II
I77 6
I75 47
I76 49
1171130 0 I79 S7 178 49178 25 I78 I I77 37 I77 I3 I76 48I76 21
I79 13
34$ PRIMUM MOBILE,
TABLES
OF
“RIGHT A‘SCENSION.
North Latitude.
1 0 1 2 s 4. 5 b‘ 7 i 8 9
2,211). M.D. M. 1). 114.1) M 1). M.D. M D. M. D. 1111.1). 118.6an.
71180 0180 28180 41 181 111815518159182 28182 41153 12185 37
1180 55181 18181 12 182 6182 90182 54189 18182 4218+ 8184 81
2181 50182 18182 51 183' 1 188 25189 49 181' 12181 81185 1 185 25
8182 46183 8188 82188 51 184 20181 41185 8185 92185 58188 20
4183 40181 9184- 21 184 51185 15185 99180 9188 21188 50il87 1+
5184- 95 181- 58185 22185 4818810188 21188 58181 22181 451188
_8' 185 8018.15118818188 42181 (1167 50181 5918811188 40189
1188 25188 49181 19 181 81188 1 188 25189 18189 12189 $5189 51
81111 21181 41188 8188 82188 .56 189 20189 45190‘1T9Y1710190 52
91188 18188 99189 8 189 21189 511901519088191 2191 2.3191 48
10189 11189 31 18933 190 29190 18191 10191 as 191 57192 12.92 41
11190 8190 99190591911:19141192 5192 28192 5219911198 :18
12191 2191 2519 4812‘) 1.1192 3619:} 0192 28198 81194 9191- 81
18191 51192 2019 45 19s 8199 31199 55191 18 194 41195 1195 ‘26
14192 5.9199 I6193 39194- 5194 28191 50195 18 195 36195 59198 21
15198 4-8194 12194 95194- 58195 21195 45 l96 819831198 51191 15
161941 14195 1195 3019.6 511 198 18198 40191 8191 28191 _19 198 11
11195 40l96 2198 25198 4-8 101 11191 93191 58198 21198 44199 6
198 58191 21191 4119 7198 90198 5819918199 89200 1
191 51198 11 198 40199 2199 25199 48 200 11200 $1200 56
198 50199 '15 199 81-199 5?";410 21200 18201 1201 29201 51
"199 48200 9200 82 200 511.101 1820199 02 2202 21202 18
200 42201 ‘ 5201 28201 518202 12202 331201 51205 19205 41
'901 a 202 1 20:1 208 52 201 11 211-1 98
202 95 202 51-. 201 28 204. 49 205 10205 51
20:; 81208 53 205 21205 431L206 5208 28
204- 29204- 150 206 17206 59 207 01907 E“:
205 2:1 205 11 4201 1a 201 85201 58209 11v
208 22 208 45 208 9208 51i209 15;
201 191201 40 209 5209 28209 111210 8.1
208 18208 51 209 40210 1210 22210 85,211 1
\
mw<2 A _‘___ '
-W * ~ - - ~—————‘_ ‘ 1
_ PRIM UM 11:01:11.3. 349
TABLES
OF
RIGHT ASCENSION.
South Latitude.
T1.~2'a'+.sb789
u. M. D. M. u'. M. 1). MD. M. u.‘ M. u. DID. M.D. M.D. M.
180 0119 3717913178 4-9 178 26178 1177 8717715176 48171: 2
180 155180 32180 8179 4419 20178 56178 32178 81177 411177 19
1813018127181 3180 S9180 1:~179 51179 27179 5178 98178141
182 45182 221815818134181 180 40180 22179 58179 31179 9
153 60183 1'7 182 53182 29182 18141181 17180 53 180 29180 5
184' 9518‘ 11183 48183 21183 182 36182121814818124181' O
20
5
(7
186 30185 7181 4518419183 55183 31185 7182 43182 19181 55
186 25186 2185 35185 14184- 50184 26184- 2183 3318314182 50
187 21180 57196 53186 918-5 45195 21184 5718-1 35184- 9183 4-11
188 10187 5'1 187 98187 4186 40186 16185 52185 28181 4184 4-1
189 11188 67183 28187 59187 55187 11186 4-7186 23185 69185 36
190 6189 42189 18188 55188 31188 7187 48187 18186 511116 99
9'
191 2190 3819014189 51 189 27189 3181139188 14187 51187 27
191 67191 33191 9190 46190 22189 58189 34 189 10188 46188 93
192 35192 29192 5191 42191. 18190 54190 80190 6189 42189 18.
193 48199 2.)193 1192 38192 14191 50191 26191 2190 36190 14
.
..
:5;
:°
“m‘w-
“+23;L-<>17
194 44-194- 20195 67193 34193 1019. 4-6 192 22191 5819134191 10
195 40195 16191- 53194- 5019; 6199 4219318192 54-192 30192 6
196 3519012195 49195 20195 2194- 39194 1 193 51193 27193 2
197 81197 8196 45196 22195 58 19.5 35195 11 194 47194 23193 5
.5
19827198 4197 4-1197 18190 51196 31196 7195 4419.5 2019‘ 55
199 23199 (J 198 97198 1-1-197 51197 28197 4196 41196 17'195 52
200 20199 36199 33199 11 19848198 25198 197 38197 111196 44
1
201 16 200 53 ‘200 30200 8199 4-5199 22198 58198 35198 11 197 46
5
202 12201 50201 27 201 5200 4220019199 5 199 32199 8198 44
203 9202 47 202 21202 2201 39 201 16200 52 200 29 ‘200 5199 41
04 6203 41203 21 ‘202 59202 31) 202 13201 50201 27 201 3900 99
0-) 2204- 41201- 19903 57 203 911203 1190‘) 4-8 202 25202 1201 37
205 59 I20.") 38 205 10204- 54 204- 31204' 9205 4-6 209 23 202 69 202 36
206 67 206 35 206 15205 51 205 29 205 7204- 41- 204 21905 57 209 84
207 5+ ‘10? 325 207 11 200 49 206 27 207.1 205 4220.5 19 20-1 56 201- 93
U,
WW _._ .___M~— ‘W_, ___..-——
.q-me--,w
law's,
.034,
.
h1
350 anm: MOBILE.
TABLES
OF
RIGHT ASCENSION.
North Latitude.
3 4- 5 b 7
M. D. M . M. l). M M.
209 l 1 0
10 1 10 37 10 5 1 I
l l 1 l 1 12 14
114- 212 1 1'2 31 12 51 1311
12 4-1213 13 2? 13 4- H 7
13 14- 1-1- 24 H- 5 4
14 41 l 15 91 1.") 41 16 1
15 15 16 1 16 16 57
16 l6 l7 1 7
l7 1'! .54 18 18 51
18 52 219 19
19 19
l
l
4.5 V
26i‘1‘33 44 994
- 2512“ 4; 5
241225 4 5
2:1‘220 41 226
:27 .
sage-s
39‘229
:58 2.50
23;?51 1
38
2:)
‘26 ;6
211237 41 7
29pm 4
9111111111111 1110111111. 351
TABLES
‘OF
RIGHT ASCENSION.
South Latitude.
l 2 3 4 .5 1 ‘0 7 3 9
D. M. l). M. D. M. l). M1 D. M.§D. M l). M l). M. D. M.
11 ' 21 51,205 I 1 1
.51 47 3‘20; 4411206 1 b4 _ '3!
909 27 1 58907 1
IO 2| 3? 208 1 29
ll ' l
12 _ 0 5 0 56; l0 1
1
l
l
1
1:1 1 1911
11 12 12
15 ~ 13 1s
16 q 14. 1-1
17 ~ 15 1:.
s 10 16
19 11 11
_ 18 1s
1 1
I
l
1 1 - 7 31
51,229 11 29 - :11
3512510 1111290 . s1 1
1'951 ‘221 2012-11 2:10 +1229
1 . 45 21a
2 923-2 ' 4 1 1 1
1- 41 12 233 54 222 a:
235 1 : 51's 1"» 27
I 1‘ 1
21 . 5572.15
352 - nuum noun.
TABLES
0F
RIGHT ASCENSION.
North Latitude.
0 1 2 a 4 5 b t 7
D. M D. M D. M U. .D. D. M. D. M.‘U.
4 l ‘239
51 l
l 3 4| ‘ZH
l l 91 l I l 9 9! 49
H ll 4-! 9 13 2!
43 H 248 “Ev 37 $5 68 4-9 44 2|
H~ l ‘24-! ‘2 . ."H- 44 4-5 45
45 9t 15 SI 45 41 15 46 $6
to 16 “244) +7 4-7
47 47 37 41 4w 4-7 4-8
21 4-8 4- 48 +9 . 95a
9 31 50 50 50
l 4‘ 1 5| . 52
_
PRXMUM MOBILE.
TABLES
OF
R\IGHT .ASCENSION.
Soulh Latitude.
353
_ T ‘ *—*
0'1 3-|4|;> 0‘¢‘|b‘
YD. M.D. M u. Mil). M ;D. M u. .u. M. |). .n. M.
3221 16 231 55 'Ii‘Jﬂb 665-266 15b 256 211936 6 233 51/ 235 88
was 5| 23's 36 mm? 67 231 42 257 22 231 |? 9:56 236 45
“5239 s.» 239 ‘H l4-239 122:8 4-. 2:16- JJ 9&8 12 2:3 ' :87 51
2240 66240 44 |||24|| 5239 62 239 36 239 1:3 22» 2:58 56
4 241 59 2+1 +1 ~42 24! 1024-0 w 2-10 44%|) 3| 2+0 240 b
5215 22w 6|, 21242 15249 22-“ 5b 24| men -2¢| l2
'1? 2w 6 us balzw :2 2+6 2026» b 2.4.? .56 2212 |. 2m 261 w
1 2w 9 2M- 6212“ - ‘51 246 2.5 244 113944 2 2|: 5k 2425 24:4 26
8 21: l “IRS 25 +2 9+5 30 245 1‘3 245 b 2++ m 2H :' QM 22-}
9 2n 1| 2|? 7 4. 246 36 2+6 2 24-6 14 "Mo L215 246 4|
702w 2| 2+6 ||' 5224? 42 ‘24? :1 241 2. 2+: |6 2+1 2w 6:»,
l219 26249 16 .12|8 4~=2~48 3b 2w 262w |. 249 2n 57
T2250 29 250 2| - 249 6+2») 4 2w 362») 2 2w ~2|J 6
13951 34161 26 L 92.51 0250 5| 250 49250 $150 250 N
1173262 L18 262 3||252 1a 262 6261 66 95,1 49 .6| 4| 26| -' 261 26
|| 3 25:3 45 253 361253 2| 252113 253 0259 57 5: |~ 259 252 2
L? 254- 42 26-6 4| -' 27 254 19 25+ 1; 2,4 126., 6: 253 7256 +|
{mesa 5*? 25:, H) 2225:, 26255 19955 |~, 256 : 25+ 2.54 5|
H6266 in 256 bl 139 266 26 2:30 21956 9 2'36 10150 266 U
l|9258 2237 '36 -4.'>!‘257 6257 $4 261 262-7 2; 261 >2 1 w
;.=-» 259 72s.» 2 62266 47268 4| 25236266 2| 58 266 w
2'31 960 I? .160 H 59 159 .542“) @259 $12.59 3~ 25‘) *2 9 30
25%| 17 26| |;, 51901 mm 6 260 5‘2 260 46 260 ~ 260 w
262 22 162 IS || 262 6262 |962 0'961 .57 26| 261 Im
2+ ‘203 2‘8 ‘30.) 1H 13 Qty; IJI‘J'QI) 1‘.) ‘163 9 20:5 1 20;) -i' ‘10.)
‘25 261- 22 264 30.~' 25 264 (JifZU-l 20 26| 1': 264 | 26. 364- M
9b2|5 38 265 26] 32 266 29 265 '13‘205 266 2' 6:» 266 20
21266 H 266 42 3:: 266 37 266 2' $6 24km» SB 266 ~ .266 so
26 267 6261 +6 4626? ‘44267 411307 . 0 n2 .1 L67 6.
2226s 5*‘2-8 6+ 62266 59 26a 62 266 52%“: 6| 26a . 2 6 \o
L30 970 new 0 0270 0 .-'7|| ||27O 01%» 0'27" 2:70 0
j - ,2 a“.
26A
354 mumm MOBILE.
' TABLES
OF
RIGHT AS'CENSION.
North Latitude.
_ .0 > 1 2 s 4 5 o' 7
J. M u. M. 0. M.l). M. n. M 0. M.D. MID. M u. M.
270 0210 o 210~ o
l 5211 l 211 an
‘ | 12
~1 l 213
l 4 lb 274
275 275
27 :6 25
3|
3 7B 278
4
4-7 l
5]
2:64
385 985
7 280' 59
l l ‘388 7
I 2'89 5988
I7 390 ‘290
~29l 11 991
2:: 292 l
59;; Maw a. 20 29: 1.;
4 51 294
5 br'iﬁb 294- 59;?%_ 4
57 296 ‘ [$995
._ 1297 a 1 was 51
_ bl . 3.997 5]
7 +291;
soyaoo ,no 5299
1 algnol m 5
-r—-—--.-|—--__
LN
PRIMUM Momma. 35
TABLES
OI
IRIGHT ASCENSION
South Latitude.
3 4- 5
M. u. . M . M.
70 0
l l 7271 7911
2 “'279 72 l 72 16
3121s 16:
3'
21s 1 73
H M274 2; § ‘ 4- 8 4- :n
5 221215 ‘ as 15
0 52pm 59 4 6 4_.
1 say-n 4.5 v
' 51 a
m (1an
I
502
.Ls; k A :1
356 mmun MOBILE.
TABLES
_ \ or
RIGHT ASCENSION.
North Latitude.
3 4 5 0 7 S
M. I M .1 A1 M u. M. 1) M. . 1“
1 1 '01 1 l iUO 300
4 02 i0) 1 =0? 101 f1 1
4 3 21 )03
901- . 91 M4
5 5| ' ' 2% b
9 _ Q- 06 15 55
106 37
508 '08 07 51 U? Sb
l9 ' ' duB _
' 109
Jll H 10 31 39
‘11 ll 3]
l5 . 12 23
14 ' 13 .. 13 27
1 'i - ' l} 11
‘15 ﬁlb
10 lb
#17
18 18
19 BI?
51 20
3‘21
2
31111111111 11:01:11.2. 357
TABLES .
.OF
RIGHT ASCENSION.
South Latitude. '
0112.31,4156178|9
:0. M. '1. 11.11). M l). MED. M 11). M1). 1111), M D. M11). AM.
0302 12 .102 251302 :19 30:: 311 303 7.303 22 30:1 37 303 5‘ 304 7‘501 22
1303 14311;; 2si909 42 303 571-101 11130-1 211301 42 301 57 305 12305 28
21301 10304 31301 45 305 33111 1.305 50105 1013011 2305 1713011 3:1
31305 117305 111501 +8 306 8306 111306 943015 50 3117 7807 92307 38
'4'12100 211300 3115011 51307 .1307 21 307 33301 5113011 11303 21 5011 ~18
'307 22 307 :18 $107 .14 .708 9 3011 25 903 49308 5113011 15 3011 52 309 48
308 213011 103011 51, 102 12309 28309 45 010 2310 19 110 30110 59
309 25309 42 309 59.110 14310 31310 4-8311 5311 23311 411111 57
310 2.310 4-3511 .111 1111.111 3331151312 5312 20012 1.11 113 1
31127311114312 312181312 35312 53315 11 313 29 :113 117114 5
312 23312 43313 313 20313 31313 55:114- 111311 32.111 50315 8
-1 5 2113 46:514- 314 211511- 99314 57 315 111315 35315 5331611
314 99311 411313 .115 22315 10315 39311» 111.115 373111 23311 14
~11; 20 15 472116 3111 21316 41317 011117 90517 99317 318 1'7
1111 7211:1111 17317 ~17 21317 123111 1 =11 21518 41319 03191
311‘ QQ3I7 4". SIB 518 2>1Sl8 43319 2319 291.319 42 390 590 22
3111 221111 11319 3111251719 4-1320 3390 21320 41321 44321 94
17319 211310 47 320 3110 25:920 4.1321 4391 25391 4.1.122 6-392 96
111390 27 .120 +0 521 321 25321 45 3112 5922 211.1112 403% 7 923 28
10 321 97 321 4.1322 099 25399 45325 6323 27 323 47524 13324. 29
b 9
6 9
5
5
(BIC
~23
z::aa:l:zlwl_mlu.
203112 21. .122 13 32:1 323 253211 15 :121 121 27124 48125 1123 50
1329 25323 4-4324- ‘724 94324 45.125 :125 27125 48 325 325 31
293911- 221324- 48 $125 32 1 2’1- 395 451320 526 21 “926 48327 10321 31
2‘) 325 92395 49 32'; 396 971396 441397 1597 97 327 4-8 328 10328 31
243211 2113211 401127 .127 22327 1131:1211 4111211 25 9211 411329 10 329 :11
25 327 111327 39 3‘28 “598 21111211 12329 3.370 25 329 47 :130 10 9:10 51
£10328 11 398 37 398 39‘? 19 “129 11‘ #30 91330 9'1 330 41': 3‘51 9:131
27 329 14399 35 399 3510 17330 39.01“ 11.351 9355! 45853 8339 30
8550 11350 $3.330 . 3.11 15351 :17 331 59332 99 '139 44 333 7 535 29
551 9331 30 931 59 '1??? 13 13‘.) 35 339 57.333 90 “153 453 3311 6 “1941 98'
11552 6352 27 339 4-9 3‘13 11 553 331133 5131331 IR I131 41 13:1 4-1315 2"
F *_ 1 -1~
~c
IOU
5"“
010’
0.6.
’0
07+
31%“
J 1'»
358 i “\va MOBILI.
TABLES .
or
RIGHT ASCENSION.
North Latitude.
4|
68 36
3!
44‘ 40 9!
PRIMUM MOBXLE. ' 359'
TABLES
0F
RIGHT ASCENSION.
South Latitude.
. a 11 a o' 7 s 1
.D. M. D. M D. M. D. M.D. M.}D.
11 as is: 551334- 18‘834 41:35 4issb
m 9 .554 31 :54 55139.5 16;.‘535 $9 556 9356
c 92' $515 55530 141336 571357 1;:157
49~ 125157 55;537 59 338
211551 ~11 10338 123838 .51'339
21 8539 311359 55310
18 1:19 41,340 51340 92!;340 32‘s“
1 3834-1 21541 25p“ 49312
Asia-u 59'542 251 411,313
3?;549 66,343 1 43:3“
29 1s 1 4015+!»
144 1 5 57846
9:; Mb 21 10 I
54 “$46 1 ’346 4 547 6‘3” 501347
7 11 2oia18
22 19
14: 511341 5 - 51 1
" 18 97 51 . - 1 1 51
49 4c . 45
51 1e 41 as 5.153
150 4-9 1 37ia131- 1
1,351 4 ~ 32 :14
21,2 59 : ‘7 3.15 971555 .51
358 35 991.156
'Il'l 74
“1258
7 51/31
_ 0 5 1
1 151111 '2. 1 ,2 17
1 59p“? 1 4 -1 1
r
360 7 2111mm 11015111.
TABLES
' or
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiurnal or
v Nocturnal Arcs or Horary Times, for any
Degree of Latitude.
E" .
Q 1 2 s 4 5 6 7 s 9 10
Q
0. 0. M 0. M0. M. 0. Mu. 111.0v M.D. M11 M. 0. M 0. 111.
“10'10203040505010809011
202040608010 015015 01019 021
50.2 0 0 09 015 015 019 022 025 029 052
40 4 00 019 011 021025 050 055 0511 042
505 010 010 021020 052 051 042 042 055
00 e 013 019 025 032 050 041 051051 14
10 1 015 022 0:10 0.11 on 052 05211 114
so a 011 025 0:14- 042 05105918 115125
209019 02.9 050 0411 051 11110125150
10011021052 042 05514111125150111
“T1 012 025 0:55 0'? 0511 110 122 1:11 146 1 58
512013 025 038 0511 41111110145155 2 9
E130“ 028 012 05619123 121 152 20 220
Cl1401505004510115110111521215 2:11
5'15010 032048 14121 1:11 155 210 225 242
5.10011 02+ 05210 125141 211219 255 251
_?17018 051 055114152150 2*9 22B 211 :1 5
18019 039 059 11s 1911 151 211 221 251 211
10 021 011 12125 144 2 1 225 240 :15 5-29
20022 041 10 121 1.49 212 2111 256 3111 511
21025 01019102155 219 241-55 329 2511
22021 049 115 101 22 225.250 515 340 4 .a
21025 051 111 14-2 273‘ 211-5 259 $25 351 +10
2021 053120 141 211 241 29 525 4-3 430
25 0211 056 121'152 220 259 511 945 41111143
21.029 059 120 151 221 250 320‘ .955 126 455
T100111 12122522534555 40120 59
21052 11.1150 2 a 2-10 212 215 411 450 5211
2505511111110 213 211520 354 425 5 21551
50025121141 210 254 929 1 4 439 5151551
511055 1191148991} 515111 51111451521115 5
211051 115 159 230 a 212-16 +2515 2 541 520
2111411111 M08118.
TABLES
OF
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Desccnsion, Semidiurnal or
Nocturnal Arcs or Horary Times, for any
’361
Degree of Latitude.
32 ‘ I 7' I ‘
3c 1 2 s 4 5 6 7 s 9 10'
a
51). 144.1). M.D.M.D. M.[D. 1111.1). 191.1). 11.0. 141.1). 54.11.9111.
53039 118 151 285 915 8,55 481 514 554 585
8404012122242 32;] 44 445-525 68 550
55042124 25 248 831413 455 589 52215
85044121 211255559 428 5 1 552 636 122
31045130215 3 2 841 4-58 511's 5 051.788
:58 041 184 22138 855 445 530 518 1 6 155
59049181 225 815 44 455 542 5‘52 122 813
40050141281822418 5 4 555 545 7198 831
41052144 281 829 422 515 5 8 11155 849
42054148 242 337 481525 521115 812 9 8
2143056 152 248 544 441558 584 152 830 928
:44 055 155 254 852 451550 549 148 848 948
5310203041516218859110-9
114612248749 512 515 118 822 929108_
54114 2 9 SIS 418 528 528 184 840 9411054
54817 213 820 421 585 542 150 8591081118
$4919 218 821 4-37 541 551 '87 91910901142
50112 229 335 441 559 111825 939 1058 128
51114 228 845 451 512 121 84810011111285
52111 284 55158 525 144 9310221142188
53120 289 359 519 540 s 1 925101112 8133
54125 245 48 581555 819 94411 9l255 14 5
55126 252 418 544 '111 83810 51113513 41495
55129 258 421 551 121 8581029|12 2158515 9
51152 3 5 488 511 141 919 10541281) 14 11545
58136 312 449 525 8 2 9411112018 014411529
59140 520 5 0 541 82210 4‘11481138211511114
50144 828 512 551 8481029121114 515551141
51148 551 525 115 9 51055 1124.4 1445 155-5 ISSS
52 155 845 589 1 as 928 112411.921l1520 1120 19 22
081158 855 554 158 955 1154115 51 15 1 18 1 2015
15412 3 4 5 510 815110201221|1455154518512121
SB
36$ PRIMUM MOBILE.
, TABLES
or
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiumal 0r
Nocturnal Arcs or Horary Times, jbr any
Degree of Latitude.
~11 1 1
Lu 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
a
17.1). M1). M 1). M u. M.D. M.D. M.D. M. 1). 111.1). M. 1). M.
6129 +111 627 83710491321516175219519213
652M 430 64-6 9211201339,161182120509520
61221 133 7 6 999 1155 14201649 1090 21:15 2.15:,
513220 457 727’9531230155174290212359555
09236 513 75l1050131015531839-212924239191
79 245 530 is_17_11 5 13 55 16 47 19 43 924.3 95 4s 91; 59
71251 519 84511431143 [746905324- 527133043
7235 610 9171296153718599912253899103959
73316 1194 9521313l638 90 6‘954127‘22311‘23513
71329 701032117174621509591292135323756
V759“ 72911171581989:;6271031889614419
521,183128l6l720389456293884-19992645l
@7120 84213717832216?! 52121157301519.3713
@2443 927111619129418 2938 3517 4195 431056 3
5'79 5 910911538 21 4264-5 3214 $910,111,111 5434 65 1
5.132 54111251717 2:122 294-53635 14. 8 52516355 90 Q
381‘619124419199612535941555050623390 0
527 81123 21512950 3830 4821- 6033 90 0
3381016319516 3143452158552 90 0
8: 9811924- 991551142 51; ‘21 90 0
85.118195151136419 3f} 0 90 0 '
@1497 3058 19 25 90 0
8719271147 90 0
221565190 0
8990 0 1
90} Y -'
: 4&1
PRIMUM 110mm. 4 363
‘ .TABLES
0F
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiurnal 01'
Nocturnal Arcs or Horary Times, for any
Degree of'Lalitude.
a 1 1
W gall 12 l3 l4 l5 [6 17 18 19 20
FD.M.l>.M.0.M.D.M.D.M.111M.D.M.D.M,D.M.0.M.
10120150140150160 170180190 21022
, 202302502609003203405709904204-4
50950 :60 420450 480 520540 591 21 6
4047051056101 41 9114118123127
50581_ 41 911612112613215314-1149
611011171231301571441501572 4212
71221311157145.155202 9217225224
81851431522 02 9219228237246266
91461562 62162262362472572 8518
101582 92202212422549 59173203 41
(0112102222342472592123243575504 51
5122222352495 2916330344858412426
{£132 542 49:1 231113333484 341845-1449
n1424751 23185348504- 64129439456512
5152 593 163333 504 74244425 0518556
5.1513 123 30.9 484 64244455 2521540559
51173213444 34224425 25 225 426 22629
185579554164395 05215 426 469.3647
193504124344555185406 96 266 49712
204 34964149512‘536559624-648712'187
214114415 55506546196457l07368 2
224 304 565215 76186597 67538 08 27
2344451152376 5629659721756824855
244 585265546236 517207 498198 49919
25.512541611641711'141812849914946
265265 576286 597 318 26959 79401014
975416156 45711175113248 5893210 6l0'4l
E5566‘297 37578118469219571053119
996116 4-617 217 57B 329 99 4510 2311 01135
306277 317 408 178549 52101010 49112812 0
SIG 427 20‘7 509 579 169 5510 3511 1611 5612 as
132|6 597 38818858988101911 111 4812 2513 9
364 11111141111 11101111.:
. TABLES
OF
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiurnul or
' Noctumal Arcs or Horary Times, for any
Degree of Latitude.
H
5-1
12.13 14. 15 16 17 18 19
c 2.1). 114.1). 111.1). 1111.1). 1111.1). 114.1). 14.1). M D.
56 8'91 21910 110 44112112 1112
15 a 51 9 4110 2511 9115412 4015
:14 9 1910 910 4911 9512 2219 T919
53 9 9910 2611 1912 112 5019 3914 291
1810 110 5011 3912 291910141015 :15
94.10 2911 1412 512 5115 491-1 42115 31:16
55110 11511 9912 9219 2514- 2015 15115 1111
2910 1011 1012 51:- 019 5514 5115 49116 49 11
4410 9911 9512 3119 2914 2515 2516 24'11 2519 21
11 212 '012 591:; 5814 5915 5911 119 419 9
21112012 2519 2114 21115 3115 9411 S818 4419 50
4911 5112 5919 5515 016 511 10111, 1119 25-20 9‘
1912 1519 2114 2915 9916 4011 4818 5220 s21 21
9112 4019 501-1. 5915 111 1019 2119 4020 59|22 9
219 1114 2015 9016 4211 5119 220 2921 4022 58
2913 9914. 5115 511 1918 9419 5121 922 2929 51
5514 915 2415 14011 5119 1620 9521 5129 2024 45
2114 4015 5817 1118. 9119 5921 2222 4124 1525 42
591:- 1915 5411 56I9 1920 4422 1129 9925 1025 49
2415 4-111 1118 9120 9|21 9229 224 9.126 921 46
5116 2911 5019 1920'5oi22 2529 5625 9521 1129 59
3111 119 .9220 421 9929 1524 5925 94211 1190 4
111 4019 1520 5222 90241025 5921 9929 2191 19
4519 2220 121 422:; 2425 925 51211 4090 4292 99
5111 2519 620 4922 11524 2295 1229 590 192 194 5
5919 119 5221 4129 9125 2321 1929 1591 2093 2595 91
9918 5220 4922 952-1 9120 2999 50:10 9592 4454 51191 11
5019 40121 9529 9425 9521 9929 4191 5994 15 6 91 9 5
b51
rou 034
512 29
$5? 1015
q: 10
1351::
55510
1:19
mm<=1~1
~z~1.
‘1‘
_
wuopluuoaq
nth
.
-
051.5
‘1;
'0101
.
.
5'12
131'
as
sail-'25
12$
ails-5
<1“-
55
“WWI/"aw
GE
,.._
+01
GI;
9101 0‘01
~—
010’
61 ’20 32 23 211 37 26 44 98 54131 9133 28 S5 63 $8 24 H S
l 62 21 .21 _,,’34 95 44 27 58130 16:59 38 35 6 37 40 1-0 2? 48 I?
_ ,6 i 6 57 99 18 31 4-4-1341 15 $6 59 39 37 1-2 34 45 35
0'8 27;
19343252 5,5029, 1590 4599 19196 1911 4911 464-4 5449 15
- T—
.-.¢_.-_-_‘-~--p'42.—~'=1~_1---=-¢:_....:;..,¢- ..; .~.;7_ .1 , 5. M“.
—“-__— -‘J
anuu “01111.3. 365
T A B L E S
0'?
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
For ﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiurnal o'r
Nocturnal Arcs or Horary szes, jbr any
Degree qf Latitude.
’17 18'19 20
.D. M.iD. MJD. M. u. M 1). M. 1)_ M.
1055 5040 1 7 1 1
14.51 21:31 0 40 6 4s 16 5o 54
51:15 55119 1142 19 ‘51- 1‘ 59
51,38 Q11 953-5 53 58 71,4.
58140 11 16‘ 52 5'1 63 1771
2911s 1 7 2451 51 s 73
6'46~ ' 10 so
5115 17.50 1 .5 '10 1
9 ~ ‘1 4
53 :1 50 1 119
59 5051:
7 4 90 0|
'
.
11 12 13:14. 15'16
M. D. M.
4132
M. D.
I ass
PRIMUM MOB] LB.
TABLES
OF
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
'Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiumul or
Nocturnal Arcs or Horary Times, for any
Degree of Latitude.
h
K
g, 21 22 23 24 25 .26 27 28 29 30
D l). M D. M D. M.D. M.D. M.D. M.D. M. D. M. D. M.D. M.
l 0 93 0 ‘24- 0 2.5 0 97 0 28 0 29 0 3| 0 $2 0 3:2 0 35
904604905105305605911141719
3191131l7l£0l21128132136140144
4|32l57l49147152l51‘2 32 8213919
1. l 5.5 2 2 2 8 2 l4- 2 20 2 27 2 33 2 40 S 47 2 5+
621922628324124-92563431939399
7249251959583l132033534535444
8363153953553453564-64174-28439
25293105515 55114205301505 2515
103594- 54-184304-53456595‘2363855l
ll 4 17 4 50'4- 4-4 4- 58 6 19 5-~ 26 5 4-] b. 55 6 H b 27
gl244l4-6651152654l5576156996467 S
=13556215238515110ll62864157 3791740
$14530541556226416591151511551811
51555151510320.111111131151811832854
E_166l968965°720741858948469 0952'
5 l7 6 4-4 7 6 7 27 7 4-9 B l? 8 35 8 58 9 21 9 4510 lol‘
' 18 7 10 7 $3 7 56 B 19 8 43 9 ’7 9 52 9 5610 QSIO 49
19 7 36 8 0 8 94 8 49 9 l4 9 4-010 010 33H 01] 98
90 8 2 B 27 B 53 9 19 9 46l0 I410 41“ {Ill 8812 8
21 8 28 8 .55 9 ‘25 9 5010 I910 4TH 1111 4612 I712 48
29 B 55 9 ‘24 9 5310 2210 521! 2211 5512 24-12 5013 29
‘28 9 22 9 5310 QSIO 51%|} 2:311 5712 2913 SIS 3714 ll
24- 9 5010 2210 .5411 2611 5912 33 IS 713 4214- I7l4- 54
25 10 19l0 5‘2 ll 25 H. 5912 54K! 9l3 45H- ?) H 5915 37
2610 4711 9211 b7l2 SSIS 9 l3 40H 2415 2)5 4116 ‘21
27 11 1711 5312 2913 713 45 H- 2315 315 43 [6 2+1"! 6
9811 4712 2MB SIS 4914- 9115 215 43 l6 2517 5|l7 53
‘29 12 1719 5613 S714- 1814 .59l5 4116 24 [7 8|? 54:18 40
3012 4813 9914- H 14 5-115 3716 21 I7 617 5518 40'19 2
3| IS 9014 3114 4715 31 16 1017 9'17 5018 3819 97120 1—
2213 53.14 31115 2:310 915 5011 45.18 5110 2-120 11;!21 ._
PRIML‘M momma. _ 1 867
TABLES
OF
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semizliurnal or
Nocturnal Arcs or Horary Times, jbr any
Degree of Latitude.
‘21 2‘2 23 ‘24- ‘25 26 27 28 ‘29 30
.D. M. D. M.;D. M.lD. M. 1). M. D. M70. M11). M. D. M.D. M.
E
'\
§
5'
3311- 9615 13116 0:10 4817 3818 9719 9090 122! "1692 1
3415 01.3 49116 38E” 9918 “2019 1220 6‘21 121 5792 55
31—
31
F
18
. 15 3616‘ 9617 17118 1019 5 1.9 58 20 51-21 5122 50 ‘23 51
16 13 17 4» 11 5818 55 19 48 90 4-5 ‘21 44 ‘22 44193 4591- 4-8
16 4917 4-1318 39119 30 90 31-91 519‘! 95 23 37241 4175 4-7
17 27 18 21-119 29120 ‘21 ‘21 ‘32-'92 9123 ‘28 24- 53 ‘25 4026 4-9
21—0111- 010 020 021 022 1122 1021 2225 a 25 4021 50
4010 4119 4920 5221 511.1 211 225 1996 2021 4528 50
{110 .2020 0121 50122 1020 5525 520 1121 2220 42:10 1
4220 1321 2022 2812.1 3824- 0020 921 11120 3020 01-211 12
0-520 5922 1112a 1921- 5205 4021 02s 2229 10:11 112 .24
§1121 4522 511,21. 1225 2020 4.120 029 20:10 5122 2232 as
@1022 512.2 5025 120 21121 1229 1130 58:12 12:1 40:1 10
51-120 2021 4,126 521 2128 5230 20;; 5123 21.2; 2116 41
éﬁm 11125 41121 522 31:10 0.1 a 110 101 40.20 2858 15
151025 1125 1020 829 30.11 11.12 4121 20.16 1138 029 53
a ,
596 1‘2‘17 4-999 1430 4932 213‘“- 8'1’) .7537 5389 39-1-1 217
5027 1528_4-7‘50 933? 3:33 4635 5331 9359 194-1 211-3 29
128 17119 5631 3738 9156 937 938 55111 IN- 111-5 2‘!
6929 91131 8‘12 5-1-34- 4-136 3938 5810 4949 534-5 1917 99
520 51:12 2031 1120 1333 1110 2012 :1011- .1011 21.10 1
51.11 5125 4135 4021 40:19 4012 1014- :12 11 210 052 :11
5555 11-35 14-37 1959 991-1 4-5-14- 016 4-119 3552 2055 HS
5634- 4136 4-938 591-1 184-8 4416 19‘49 4-59 255 1658"“
.‘7‘
51:10 14911 2810 4911a 1145 5018 10151 41.14- 5850 5669 15
511.21 5110 1112 411122111 10.11 10.14- 3150 1962 3001 51
529 1042 1014 51111 1950 5111 1010 0112 1461 l878 3‘
00-11 50-14. 25-11 19‘50 21511 5251 r: 01 5151 2113 41190 0
5112 501-0 41119 501713 21-11 3021 3866 491a 3590 0
0216 1210 2112 081.56 5201 110(- 3215 2:120 0
15
64
48 5352 2856 2560 54100 14‘15 1190 0
51 55 55 55160 29165 sue 5190 o
368 PmMum Mount.
TABLES
0F
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiurnal dr‘
. Nocturnal Arcs or Horary Times, jbr any
Degree of Latitude.
21 ‘22 23 24- 25 26 Q7 28 29 30
0.1). M D. M. D.
6 5!) ‘2“ 91
211114111141 110mm. 369
T A B LE 5
OF
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descensimz, Semidiumal or
Nocturnal Ares or Horary Thnes, fi'n‘ any
Degree 0f Latitude.
S". -- I
a, 31 3‘2 33 34 35 36‘ 37 38‘ 39 407
ED. 114.1). MI». 14.1). 111.15. 171.1). M. D. M. 0.410“ 111.1). M
10 960 570390 400 420 410 450 470 490 60
21 1211 151181911241197131134137141
914915 1 512 22 6211216921226251
22 2902562 422 462.559 15 6515922
5315 69159 299 515 999 47-9 654 4419
69575 465 554 54194294554494 535 4
74144244544 454 565 75195 5 57425 55
4515 25145 265 995 526 56 1116 526 4
952 5415 546 86 226 376517 67 227911
106 56 206 856 507 97 227 9117550195 50
6,116 426 597157 927 4911 78 255.449 99 23
21272 7387 568158948 599 1 9949551016
519 7 5a a m a 97 a 5a 9111 9 3910 110 2410 461110
514 a s7 6 58 9199 4110 .910 2610 501114115912 4
2'15 9 16 5 9910 110 2510 4911 14119912 512 5215 0
£416 9 5510 1910 4411 911 .9512 212 2912 5719 9613 55
#1710 .9511 111 2711 5412 2212 5415 1913 4914 2014 52
1 11 1611 4912 1112 4019 919 5914 1014 421.5 1515 49
1 1911 5612 2612 5519 2616 5714 2915 215 9616 1116 48
#2012 8813 919 4014 1514 4615 2015 5516 9117 9‘17 41
115 9013 5:314- 9615 015 3116 1'216 4-917 2718 718 47
2214 514 9715 1515 4916 2717 517 4419,2419 619 49
914 471.5 2116 016 5917 1717 5511-. 6-919 2220 620 52
2415 5116' 916 4917 291a 101a 5219 5620 2121 921- 56
5316 1616 5617 3818 2019 .719 4920 $421 2122 11529 1
2617 211 4516 2619 1219 5890 4521 2422 2499 16794- 10
2717 501a 5419 1920 620 5121 4422 5523 2924 22125 19
2818 55119 2426 1221 121 5122 442.9 5724 95-25 90;26 so
2919 2720 1621 621 5722 5029 4524 412.5 4026 40,27 45
3020 1921 922 122 5529 5124 4526 4726 4997 59198 59
9121 1022 922 5929 5524 5:195 5921 5525 029 7190 11
|'82\22 922 5929 5624 5625 5727 0.29 529 19130 24151 :17
- c
370 mmm 14011111“
TABLES
0F
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Senu'diurnal or
Nocturnal Arcs or_H0rary Tunes, jbr any
Degree of Latitude.
a - r 1
a“ 31 ‘32 as 34 35 :16- 37 as 39 4o
KID. Mlp. M11). M.D. 111.0. M.D. 51.11. 111.1). 111.11. 511.1). M.
35'22 5812a 5521 5725 5921 3211 929 111210 2991 4 59
5425 55124- 5525 5927 42s 1129 2190 9251 4933 654- ‘58
521 5:225 5721 2‘28 1129 22:50 3551 5052 1094 35 5
3625 5921 02B 929 2150 35151 52:13 1294 3636 '1
5726 5520 529 1830 5251 5053 194 5936 +91 50 9 1
3828 0‘99 13150 2951 4835 1034 3636 457 $189 1540 5
9929 790 2231 was K‘s; 3936 2:17 5059 1510 59m 491
10:10 11313133 1341 2895 .5991 3559 1310 5842 49-44 45
Tl“)! 2939- 61134 2935 5337 3089 1044) 55 t2 474-4- 4546 50
4-239 45“ 1536 4737 9339 5540 5942 4-444 4946 4949 4
43341 5!!“ 3813,? 1638 .5940 4642 391441 39+6 464-9 951
4485 93187 38 504-0 3942 353 44- 39-16
1
4.5135 562111 4040 9012 2511 20-10 2619
10;:111 2940 124.2 1514- 1516 294a 4251
1140 142 444 815 2048 40.51 1153
11111 524.5 6746 9111 2151 363 48156
11940 4455‘ 411 2050 5953 +066 4960
5045 4545 50 >159 3056 9459 5953
5141 5150 53 19,511 24-59 5105 miss
5250 15159 51; 13'59 4255 4-0168 25:14
5952 5955 59 31'52 5168 1274. 2190
5455 4050 .1203 21011 1111- 9220 o
559 6135 1068 2112590 0
5562 5901 5514. 1990 o
5767 49741 1990 0
58741 490 0
3590 o
'1qu
nugloaq
uug
69
1 ll
371
PR! MUM MOBXLE.
TABLES
OP
ASCENSIONAL . ' DIFFERENCE "
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiumal or
M. D.
l
9
0
I
Nocturnal Arcs or Horary Times, jbr any
Degree of Latitude.
.12. M. 1). M. D.
o o
1 1
0
5
9
4.
8
4.
7
4.
5
M
4
4
4
3
4.
2
4
l
4.
1
E
5
u. D
0
1
l
[19
541 l
4'
‘18
38
'22
23
E
l 89
46
40 l 5243'44
45 5
40142
372 ' Palmm 1110mm.
TABLES
or
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiumal 0r
_ Noclumal Arcs or Horary 'Ians, for any
Degree of Latitude.
l i l _ 1
~15 411 4'2 43 ‘ 44 41> 46 l 47 4s 49 50
E
11.0. M.D. M.D. M.D. 111.1). M.D. M|D. M.D. M.[D. mu. M.
£54 2255 4157 16m .50 2042 16144 846 9548 mp0 45
5435 5251 2338 5940 2942 2541. 184-6 2048 31150 5559 4a.
5557 31139 540 4642 3534-1 2646 2948 +051 31:»: as 5
26,59 1040 5912 $9141 23;“ 5648 719151 1153 4356 4259 59
5140 5.512 4444, 3946 42'49 5451 111.15 55 6 49560 663 46
38412 4111. 4€_H6 4648 5951 22554. 0116 41150 H64 058 55
2944- 4516 4919 251 WM 356 57b0 1664 468 41-14 49
1046 5049 1:11 2K1!“ s\57 4130 9066 81311 41114 5290 o
1149 551 315-1 9151 51602364. 1062 1.114 51190 0
4251 3154 11157 61611 9416} was 4971. 5590 0
0,4654 951.060 2446-1. 14‘611 49{'14. 5690 0 “Jaw
E44 '1 6 04,946!- 14-08 5014 57:90 0 1 :- '.
'456055" 1849745790 0‘ . 4
‘546110Hsg45690 01 ' 1
ins 4 I! o {1.12.
48 5 0 H 1 5;
i4» 1"1'?
d 5 ,,'
Innuuu Mom“. 373
T A B L E S
OF
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descension, Semidiurml or
Nocturnal. Arcs 0r Homry Tunes, for qny
Degree Qf Latitude.
54, 55 56 57 58
M.
.0 ‘0
.
~(J-
U
u;
.—
55
Q'
v—KOCD
OAIF
{ﬁt-l
i—ROWO
Wi-
N'—
.
v—
.— IF _-
O‘-
(J
.-
.w
u .
8;
:3
=5
:5
an“
cm:-
up
3’
>-.-----
>-
(DO\UKW§&°®~IQ\§
W'—
QQ
a»
_..
.
ﬂ'OCS
374 251mm 110mm.
TABLES
or
ASCENSIONAL 1. DIFFERENCE
Forﬁnding the Oblique Ascension or Descensimz, Semidiumal or
' Nocturnal Arcs or Horary Times, jbr any
Degree qf' Latitude.
51 5Q .53 54- 55 56 57
‘D. . M. D. M l).‘1\1.D- M.D. M.D. M. ,
13 59 31 21‘ 4 19|90
63 3168 1171- 26? 0!
1__..
1 99190 0*
7-1 ‘
314-490
74'
PRIMUM MOD! LR
TABLE
. OF.
THE POLES- OF THE HOUSES,
According to PTOLEMY.
11111 12111 \ ' _ lhh 12111
L111. 1111511 and 71 ‘ ’ 1,111- and 34 and 21
tude. Poles. Poles. lude. Poles. Polen.
D. D. M L). M. D. D. M. l). M.
1 0 90 0 40 ~ _ 31 11 9521 58
2 0 401 19 $2 11 5222 41
s 1'0159 5:1 12192;; as
4- 1 19 2 40 54 19 4.921 24
5 I 519 S 211 35 15 1725 13
6 1 57 1 0 - 36 15 4626 I,
7 2 19 4 41 57 14. 1776 55
B 2 39 5 22 - as 14 4997 46
9 2 59 1; 3 s9_ 15 211211 38
10 S 21 6 43 40 15 5929 33
ll 3 42 7 24 41 16 ‘25130 25
12 4» 4 8 5 . 42 16 693] 22
1s 1 24?? 4s 17 30212 16
H 4- 44 9 26 4% 18 1333 13
15 5 510 8 45 18 50:11-11
15 5 2710 49 4s 19 21195 9
17 5 4-911 31. 47 20 735 a
18 6 1112 13 48 20 4-931 '8
19 6 3312 [:6 4‘9 91 3338 10
20 6 15513 39 50 92 1739 11
21 7 1114 99' ‘ 51 25 410 16
29 7 4115 5 59 93 5141 20
93 8 5.615 49 53 24- 4042 26
94‘ 8 9916 S4. 54- 95 34-49 39
425 8 51117 19 55 96 2944 41
26 9 “‘18 4 56 27 2515 5|
27 9 43118 50 57 28 2117 o
28 10 8:19 35 53 29 261-8 18
29 ID 3420 ‘22 5‘) 30 3019 26
30 ll 02]. 9 . 60 3! $950 42
9111 5 as: e 9& .5 8k 6
PRIMUM MOBILE.
TABLE OF TWILIGHT,
Shelving the Crepusculine Circles for the latitude of
44 Degrees. -
10 20! 10 30
2610 11
17 ll 59H
1213 5113
E'omumuw-u
"d
,1.
~_—_H_.._.
lmﬁd'lm-FUIO
64- .59
526 42
LOQOﬁ-ﬁ
9l5 4-415
717 SB 16
919 3518
1? ‘2l 38 ‘20
28 23 4-5 22
44 25 14- 2'4
10 ‘28 10 ‘16
45 30 32 ‘28
2733 231
1655 4033
16
45
56
..
omqu
2‘”
OQQm-P-
73
'
. 32
.p
..._...
km—mmqm+
29
5915
3017 1
55 20 '
4-192
19 241
5526
10
54
58
2|
45
3;!
58
23
15
39
52
59
26
20
10 20 N) O 30
5.7,
21
44
:mewih
unw
WM“
10
37
2'1
48
I)
q 1-1 II.
_._~.>-,
méwv—‘Ochr-is
'19 15 2:1
4316 4-7 I6
5119 5:119
5520 55121
1922 20,22
4425 44.25
925 1125
51°
L3
u+>u~m
‘9
15
‘20 IO
151411411111 1110111117. . 377
A
TABLE 01‘ TWILIGHT,
Shewi-ng the Crepuscul-ine Circles for the Latitude Qf
47 Degrees.
‘_ . .
I: 0 96,10 20‘ 0 .1110 20. v.0g111110 20 0
95 996916295106 0449499499426421
47 907267166 686466276156 55 565 69
59 299249109 479 279 67497 957 257 21
611 29112411 610 401010 9 46 9 99 9 7 a 65 9 4,9
719 9119 2919 512 9412 0112911 010 9910 251019
911 4415 9515 714 9019 6019 1112 9912 1011 5511 46
917 5917 4617 1916 4915 4114 5914 1719 4519 2719 16
1020 1520 919 2019 9117 9416 4016 5715 1914 6914 46
1192 4022 2621 9720 3619 9019 9017 9916 6416 2116 15
1225 1024 5424 022 4621 9020 2019 2019 2916 417 46
1920 6927 9026 2926 129 9922 1921 420 719 9519 16
1490 4590 1899‘ 927 2025 9924- 922 5121 5021 1020 47
1599 5099 1991 4629 4727 5026 624 9929 9622 .9622 19
1697 2066 9794 4992 2090 628 626 2625 1924 1723 50
1741 1740 2097 6995 992 2990 1029 2027 025 6726 29
1946 644 4641 9799 594 .6792 2190 9129 927 9926 50
30 112010 0 152010 0 91120 10-0
0921020 011111020 0 11020 30
94244224294944.4141 504495 96165 19
‘45 535511676 46 196 266996 496 576 [,9
57 217217257947469 08158998398 41
69 499 496 509 49 179 949 6110 910 2010 29
7101910 1710 2010 3410 4911 711211146115812 1
911 4611 4111 6012 612 19.2 6019 219 2018 3619 99
919 1619 1913 191.1 9019 40;4 10114 3614- 5916 1916 17
1014 4514 4114 4611 015 19.15 4.116 916 9.916 5016 64
1116 1516 916 1416 2916 9117 11;17 4019 719 2518 26
1217 4517 9717 4217 5719 19,19 45i19 1419 4120 020 5
1919 1619 719 1119 2619 47;?0 15120 4521 1421 3321 40
.1420 4720 sn|20 9920 59121 15121 4522 1692 4729 799 1.4
1522 192: 4,29 622 21122 44,29 15,99 4724 1924 90124 1
1629 5029 9129 9429 4924 1024 4425 1925 6026 1036 19
1796 2926 425 0125 1726 411215 1926 4927 2127 24127 50
1926 5726 36126 90‘26 45.27 40127 4099 19129 5029 1629 21
L90 9120110101.:201101011y20 1010
3D
378 22111021 11011111,
A
TABLE OF TWILIGHT,
Shewing the Crepuaculine Circles for the Latitude of
n-1,;
56Degrees.
:30 921020 0 51,1020 011m10|20 80
26 95 55545405255194 4
4818815817‘587186586 51
510 2210 2110 99599109452 1
512 5112 451219114011 110 2110 9
115 1515 514. 2212 4912 512 2011 10
811 4511 2215 5415 015 5141512 12
220 4420 519 20181511 11151015 14 5
1022 1022 4921 5020 2419 1119 511 15
1125 525 4124 2022 5921 2120 519 11 1
1222 2022 5021 2125 2222 4022 1020 1419 5
1252 1522-1920 2229 1525 524 1122 22
1421 525 922 5121-92 2425 2024 1
1542 540 4521 $824 122 1028 4225
1542 1145 4045 5021 2152 5521 225 525
11 41 5241 21125 5092 5090
10 45 040 525 492
30 11.2010 0 52010 0
015-1020 0111,1020 011020 30
24404414444515 45125255555455“
45145155125215415 54110124124121
51 451451 502 22199555 549119222 21
5 2 2o 9 20 2 25 9 25- 2 5110 2510 2510 5211101111
110 5510 5911 011 12112411 5512 2012 4012 5212 4
9'12 2012 2012 2012 4215 10122414 114 2514 4414 51
9141514 014 514 2014 45151015 4115 215 2115 25
1015 4015 2515 4015 5515 2115 4911 2111 5019 1019 12
1111 1511 1011 1411 5011 5512 231a 5919 2019 5020 1|
1212 521s 4418 112 219 9120 20 2221 1021 2221 40;
1220 2920 1920 1520 2121 521 2222 1522 4222 1229 29‘
1422 121 5221 5422 1022 2922 1225 5024 2124 5295 2
1522 4522 2023 2022 4424 1224 4525 2925 595 21325 41
15 5 2425 425 025 1125 4125 2221 421 2a 2 20
1121 525 4025 2520 5121 2121 5122 4029 129 45 51
1929 442a 112a 102a 2425 5429 2190 1520 2 21 29!:1 24
:10 x2010 0 :2010 0142011010
PRIMUM MOBILE.
A
379
TABLE OF TWILIGHT,
Shewing the ermueculine Circles for the Latitude of
51 Degrees.
:10261020 0511020 011111020130
36206 [96 75616855195 641264
‘ 64066116161661.9111 66496666
111010 6110 299 589 266696 348158
‘ 13 96l314-12 4612 6112810 5110 20 9 b7 9
16 6916 4416 81411913 9112 4612 6114011
818 8918 2111 5616 9116 9114 4112 611a 2112
21 182l 690 1118 59l7 4616 4"“ 4715 714
24 28124 122 6921 2619 6916 4111 8916 5016
1121 4421 026 4629 6922 1120 4619 661a 3818
1251 2960 2926 .6426 4924 4122 6421 6020 2119
135 30341 35159 2029 5827 1195 623 2999 169]
I40 S659 1336 83? 4-629 4-827 9095 3124 3'25
1641 6646 2610 26.96 1092 9029 4421 9626 024
16 4-6 9840 436 5539 1029 4527 6726
11 60' 04s 4436 6194 4691 6629 5‘28
16 60 6612 2691 54-1-4- 1661 6190
30 112010 0142010 0114-10
09.1020 01111020 01110
34 464 474614666 11620-535641
46 206206266 366 461 61 20129
1661 666 88 146296469 9929
6 9 34- 9 29 9 s9 9 6110 1010 3510 661116
111 1011 611 1411116114612 1012 4112 6
612 4112 4412 6019 61s 2616 6014 2614 61
914 2414 2014 2614 4116 416 9616 116 96
; 16 116 6616 116 1116 4011 1611 4916 20
1 11 11911 8117 6611 6616 2018'6019 9020 s
1, w 1619 ‘ 619 1019 2619 6120 5121 1021 46
51 1 6120 4420 4121 421 9922 922 6026 26
~ 9122 2122 2222 8925 92s 46 4 2926 1
4-14 112a 6929 6924 1624 4626 2926 126 41
6926 9626 9426 6026 2026 6921 4626 26
3 21 4191 1.621 1121 2621 6626 2629 2880 b
1 129 2626 6426 4129 129 8180 2021 021 49
30 962010 0 xlolm-i 0 16110
380 PRIMUM 11011112.
A
TABLE OF TWILIGHT,
Shewirig the Crepusculine Circles for the Latitude of
52 Degrees.
._
1110151020 00,1020 0111110 2030
36 65602265645627516594504-55
49185688081074471970644685639
511 2911 2110 5410 20 9 05 9 18 8 48 B 27 8 lb 8 8
614 413 5218 1812 8511 5011 910 3610 11 9 55 9 46
716 4616 $115 48141 5313 5713- 712 2711 5611 3611 25
819 5719 19l8 95.17 1716 915 8141 2019 4913 1713 6
922 4-129 18 21 1019 4718 2517 1016 1415 2914 4914 45
1026 025 28241 622 93 20 4419 1718' 917 1716 4316 25
1129 4128 5927 16 75v 828 921 27 211 719 718 2818 5
1933 04 52 5930 43. 28 b 5 4023 4022 9‘21 020 1319 46
13 39 9 37 403-11 35 51 16 28 9126 1941 13 22 5491 59 il 26
1146 80 13 .5139 0 341 45 31 1198 21 26 19 24' +8 28 46 23 8
lb 416 50 15 4 58 40 34 13 50 55 28 80 96 45 25 5:3 94
16 13 93 37 S1 33 $0 50 45 28 4b ‘27 25. 96
11 19 1011 1121s 2153 630 11119 1828
18 4-5 2639 2035 3092 5531 2090
as 112010 9 52010 0 102010 0
, . :1 a
o e 10 ‘20 0 m 10 20 o I '0
34634544586551752964565867010
46306316306457 07167567538589
58 88 88138948439 299694-610 010 6
6 9 49 9 46 9 5010 610 2510 4711 9511 3811 5519 0
711 2511 2411 3011 4419 712 3115 013 28 13 4615 55
818 413 018 513 2315 4-816 1514 4-915 1815 3715 4-6
916 4514 3914 4515 015 2815 716 3-117 517 21517 56
1016 2316 1716 B 16 4-917 717 3918 1818 5019 1.519 25
ll 18 517 5518 O 18 1818 4619 9020 0‘20 36 21 £21 10
1919 4419 84-19 3719 5.6 90 9520 121 4429 199! 4899
13 21 2521 8121 15 21 33 22 429 4193 2694 524 31194
1428 28 $2 6022 53 23 4023 4094 2126 725 4826 1626
15241 5094 3094- 3124 49 95 120 26 0‘26 4897 31197 50%
~ 1696 36 96 1026 926 2326 57 27 89 98 2829 15 28 4029
1728 2127 MT! 49 8 028 55,29 I730 830 5581 9531
1830 029 3599 27 99 4190 1800 5531 4832 $033 533.
30 x 20 1o 0 :: 20| 10 0 Ivy 20 10
Pampu 110mm. 381
A
TABLE OF TWILIGHT,
Shewjng the Crépusculine Circles for the Latitude Qf
53 Degrees.
$0510120|0511020 011111020 30
E7 666316886175555565‘205 9.5 94169
49 9.19999 5110 991 587317 11654646639
~5121111511112310 4510 49 90 9 00 4011 99 s 20
514 5514 9119 6013 619 1911 9910 5410 2610 1010 0
111 4911 9416 9616 9014 9619 2019 41112 1111 5911 41
1190 5690 9419 9410 416 4415 9014 4614 419 9919 20
9241 .1823 3929 2320 219 617 4616 4315 6415 22% 4
1099 091 1996 99129 9091 9919 611a 4011 4517 916 46
1132 1731 1699 1096 9724- 722 1320 4-519 3518 6618 29
1991 9096 199 9999 4096 4991 9499 9111 9490 4490 19
1345 912 1091 S653 1999 4121 096 099 9499 9991 01
14 +8 3787 1132 4699 3527 1095 341141 24-93 48
15 51 9142 096 199 1.199 2991 9496 1195 :0
15 118 2599 5135 431 5090 3898 1127 16
17 44 1099 634 91:11 4630 109 4
15 49 9111 2556 9099 10.19 690 54
YE30 112-010 0 1121110 0002010 0
0 Q1020 011110201 0110 20 30
3451941595 5513990641655610691686
16 996 396466.557 101911.109 9990099
682081982683786792094310 410211028
610 09 6910 110 9010 4011 0119012 0191919 21
111 4111 9911 4119 019 91119 5.513 9.119 5414 15141 94
019 90191019 2619 4914 914 41151115 4616 916 19
915 414 5816 616 2415 5116 9611 011 9619 01911
1016 4616 5816 4617 411 9410 101a 4919 9519 5090 3
111a 991a 191a 961a 4419 1.119 5490 9521 1421 4091 91
1910 1990 020 620 9490 6691 9199 2099 199 9129 49
1991 9121 4191 4699 499 9199 1924 421, 4126 1995 91
1199 4099 9929 9629 4494 1126 125 4026 9491 .191 18
1325 21525 525 625 9425 .6726 4-027 5198 1798 54‘29 5
1N1 1696 4826 411191 491 9199 2999 1990 190 3630 90
1199 490 2098 99119 4499 1190 490 6551 44911 20.19 95
11190 5430\1630 990 90 6731 4499 9199 2194 994 111
30962010 01.12010 01192010 01
382 PRIMCM 11011111.
A
TABLE OF T‘VILIGHT,
Shewing the Crepusculine ‘Circle: for the Latitude of
54 Degree:
;.=| o 2510 20 0 51,10 20 0 111110 20 0
177136 555306105495 315185105
5594559230500111401221 56545
4019 9111 5111 1910 209 50 911 s 54 9 99a
9915 2414 9919 4012 4011 5511 1410 4410 2510
4015 2511 2015 1415 214- 519 1012 551211111
1021 4420 291a 5511 2115 1515 1014 2119 5513
5925 2029 4421 4019 511a 2111 1515 2115 4015
1090 1529 9521' 1524 4122 9420 4-119 1910 1511 9411
115 9594 1591 1520 025 1122 121 2120 1419-2410
1541 2040 9995 5091 992a 1025 5529 9122 1421 1120
19 42 055 4191 2028 1025 5024 1529 1022
14 55 940 9194 4490 542s 1120 1925 424
15 45 5999 9199 4550 5528 20 25 4925
16 4-2 54-36 5058 630 3628 5727
I7 43 2140 1555 4492 5190 51129
18 51 9444 099 3095 999 091
30 n2010 0 152010 0 0112010 0
0 1511020 0 11110 20 0 11020 30
5 15 15105215945505 1152059015
5495405541 51201410 0920040 4
5s 90 a 91 a 95 a 51919 9 9010 410 2510 4510
510 1510 1410 2110 9510 5911 2111 5012 2512 4112 55
1115511 5512 412 2012 44191115 5014 2014 451+ 55
919 4019 9115 4514 414 9015 015 44151015 5115
015 2615 l9l5 2615 4716 I515 54l7 34-18 1118 59l8 50
1011 1111 011 911 2911 591a 4019 2420 420 9120 45
1119 5110 451a 5019 1019 4420 2521 1021 5422 2522
1920 4420 2900 9420 5421 2122 1029 029 4524 1124 91
1 2 9022 1422 1522 9523 1029 5124 4125 5425 1 21
14 4 1823 5825 5924 1824' 54.26 4126 3427 9097 4'!” I
l 6 925 4425 4125 025 9521 2520 1929 922 45 .121
1 5021 2021 2521 4029 11129 1190 2950 5591 1'
1 5029 1522 029 2550 090 5192 4192 4199 1995
1091 4491 ow 5091 191 4092 9499 9154 2595 595
[009421410 0::20110 o 2010 01
PRIMUM MOBILE.
A
TABLE OF TWILIGHT,
Slzewing the Crelmculine Circles for. the Latitude qf
383
5.) Degree».
f8 0 2620 10 51201 10 0 pm 10 2o
:11 4411 541166456 20!5 595 4015265
4105110159 519126 5511 015611161
515 20151012 55114210 5010 8 9 50:9 5 a
616 41% 1915 2514 2015 14|12 16111 54‘11 110
720 9'19 4016 5011 415 14114 51115 51112 5612
825 5925 2021 4919 5610 19l16 46|15 40114 5214
- 9‘25 2021 2525 2425 0211 50-19 6117 4516 4916
1059 4452 2199 2126 1925 5521 5119 5618 4818
1141 511-18 5054 1429 5126 5124 0122 10’20 4919
19 40 2454 529 “PS 40,24 2122 5221
18 56 5652 1029 2626 45125 025
H 45 5061 5152 2129 15121 925
lb 11 5155 2951 4529 2121
I6 41 655 5454 28151 5629
17 56 2542 4451 16"95 5951
18 41 1040 18136 2655
50 112010 142010 0 |9r 20 10
04151020 1111020 0111020
54145 45215505 446 26 206386
46 496 561 61 61561 5962411469
5 a 44 a 42 s 52 9 6 9 6 95410 2410 5111
610 5010 2910 5110 5511 18“ 4012 2212 5515
112 1612 1412 2212 4012 5115 4114 2014 5515
814 415 5614 114 2614 5615 5416 1416 5211
916 5015 4415 5116 1116 5411 2511a 71l8 4919
1011 1411 2211 5611 5615 5019 1420 0,20 4421
1119 2619 1519 2219 4120 121 221 5122 5625
1221 1521 021 621 2622 522 5029 42124 5125
1525 522 4622 5025 1125 5924 5125 5226 2521
1424 5124 5424 5624 5625 5426 2421 2129 1422
1526 4926 2226 2126 4121 926 11129 950 490
1626 4428 112a 1122 2529 429 51,50 51‘51 5552
1150 4650 129 5550 1050 4951 44:52 4455 4154
1552 5151 51:11 4151 55595555 25154 5055 2956
30|x2010 :20 10|01612010
384 9111mm Mommy
A
TABLE OF TWILIGHT,
Shewing 'the Crepusculine Circles for the Latitude Qf‘
56 Degrees.
;= 01511021“ 015111220 0 11110 2o 30_}
9591511921 5915125505515255 '
41110110 5510 249 405 559 201 501 9511511
514 2114 519101210111910 919 52 9 25 9 1 a 5
511 5511 9015 2515 519 4512 451151112210 51110 45
121 49,21 1419 4215 21s 2415 414 41s 2012 5012 951
520 1125 2529 2521 919 5111 2115 1415 2014 4414 2
‘991 4150 2421 9524 9122 5419 5515 4211 2115 2915 1
1059 9495' 5992 252a 1121 5 22 2920 3919 2415 5515 5-
ll 92 2228 5 5 522 5521 9020 9119 5?
I? 91 2191 9225 5525 2429 9522 3021 50
15’ 14 0:15 9120 5421 925 5124 9129 44
14 10 494 590 2:25 525 5425 391
15 15 4591 5293 990 2128 3821 94
15 ,5 541 2195 292 9990 4529 90
it? 45 5999 135 592 5591 $1
1“ __ 51 4012 2591 5495 9s: 34
30112010 152010 09r2010 0
Oa1020 01111020 0111020 30
95225 245 2115405 515115.955 551111
41101101151 901 495159 419 19219
5 a 58 a 55 9 5 9 219 4410 1410 451115114011
510 4510 4510 5411 1211 2112 1112 4115 2215 5014
112 9512 3212 4019 119 2914 914 4115 2915 5515
514 2514 2014 2914 5015 2115 415 4111 291B 515
915 1515 515 1515 9911 1111 5519 4219 2920 520
1015 511 5515 41s 2519 119 4920 9921 2522 122
1119 5119 4419 5020 1420 5021 4122 2429 2124 124
1221 5021 9421 9522 122 9929 9294 2925 2125 525
1323 4929 2429 2529 49-; 2525 2225 2021 1525 125
1425 9925 1425 1425 95-15 11191 1299 1229 1029 190
1521 9421 421 121 2425 429 130 291 5515092
1529 9225 5529 5029 1129 5150 4991 5292 5159 4594
1191 9190 4990 9990 5991 9952 9999 4294 5095 9595
1599 9492 4492 2992 4519 25:14 2595 59195 2591 2591
201x120 10 0 122010 01252010
A _
'11‘ A IE3 L ‘E
or
Proportional Logarithms ;
m an IBM) wrrn
The Astronomical and Nautical
EPHEMERIS.
SE
380 PIUMUM MOBILE.
TABLE
1
A
01"
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
15
01
Q.
22
11° l6 20 ‘0 OD
4.0531
3.7324
3.5563
8 4-318
S 3311
3.2555
8.1883
3.1503
3.0792
3.0331
2.2553
2.2181
2.2410
2.2341
2.2272
2.2205
1.9512
1.9506
1.9170
1.9435
1 9100
1.9365
1.6532
1.6514
1.6196
1.6178
1.6450
1 6142
1.4771
1.4759
1.4747
1.4735
1.4723
1.4711
2 2139
2.2073
2.2009
2.1946
2.1885
1.9331
1.9296
1 9262
1.9228
1.9195
1.6425
1.6407
1.6390
1.6372
1.6555
2.9920
2.9512
2.9195
2.8873
2.8573
2.1821
2.1761
2.1701
21642
2.1584
1.9161
1.9128
1.9096
1.9063
1.9031
1.6537
1.6320
1.6303
1.6286
1.6269
1.4699
1.4687
1.4676
1.4664
1.4652
1.4640
1.4629
1.4617
1.4605
1.4594
2.8293
9.8030
2.7782
2.7516
2.7394
2.1526
2.1469
2.1 112)
2.1358
2.1305
1.8999
1.8967
1.8935
1.8704
1 8873
l .6252
_ 1 6235
1.6218
1.6201
1.6184
1.4582
1.4571
1.4.559
1.4548
1 4536
2.7112
2.6910
2.6717
2.6532
2.6355
2.1219
2.1 196
2.1143
2.1091
2.1040
2.0989
2.0939
2.0889
2.0840
2.0792
1.8812
1.8811
1.8781
1.8751
1.8720
1.6168
1.6151
16134
1.6118
1.6102
1.4595
1.4513
1.4502
1.4591
1.4179
21
25
26
27
28
29
‘i
2.6181
2.6021
2.5862
2.5710
2.5363
1.5242
1.5229
1.5215
1.8690
1.8661
1.8631
1.8602
1.8573
1.6085
“1.6069
1.6053
1.6037
1.6021
1.5202
1.5189
1.5175
1.5162
1.5149
1.4468
1.4457
1.4446
1.4435
1.4421
“'“"
~__
PR1 MUM MOB] LE
A
TABLE
OF
387
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
I 00 10 2Q 30 ‘0 60
1 2. 5420
2.5283
2. 5149
2.5019
2.4893
2.0744
2.0696
2.0649
2.0603
2.0557
1.8544
1.8516
1.8487
1.8459
1.8431
1.7091
1 7071
1.7050
1 7030
1.7010
1.6004
1.5988
1.5973
1.5957
1.5911
1.5186
1.5128
1.5110
1.5097
1.5084
1.4412
1.4401
1.4590
1.4879
1.4868
2.4771
2.4652
2.4536
2.4424
2.4313
2.4206
2.4102
2.3999
2.3899
2.3802
2.5706
2.3613
2.3522
2.3432
2.1514
2.0512
2.0466
2. 0422
2.0378
2.0834
1.8403
1.8375
1.8347
1.8320
1.8293
1.6990
1.6969
1.6949
1.6950
1.6910
1.5925
1.5909
1.5894
1.5878
1.5862
1.5071
1.5058
1.5045
1.5032
1.5019
1.4357
1.4346
1.4335
1.4825
1.4313
2.0291
2.0248
2.0206
2.0164
2.0122
1.5847
1.5832
1.5816
1.5801
1.6786
2.0081
2.0010
2.0000
1.9960
1.9920
1.8266
1.8259
1.8212
1.8186
1.8159
1.8133
1.8101
1.8081
1.8055
1.8030
1.6890
1.6871
1.6851
1.6892
1.6812
1.6793
1.6774
1.6755
1.6736
1.6717
1.5770
1.5755
1.5740
1.5725
1.5710
1.5006
1.4994
1.4981
1.4968
1.4956
1.4945
1.4951
1.4918
1.4906
1.4893
1.4503
1.4292
1.4281
1.4270
1.4260
1.4249
1.4238
1 4228
1.4217
1.4206
2.3259
. 2.8174
2 3091
2.8010
2.2930
1.9881
1.9842
1.9705
1.9727
1.98113.
1.8004
1.7979
1.79.54
1.7929
1.7904
1.6698
1.6679
1.6660
1.6642
1.6623
1.5695
1.5680
1.5665
1.5651
1.5656
1.4881
1.4859
1.4856
1.4844
1.4832
1.4196
1.4185
1.4175
1.4165
1.4154
2.2852
2.2775
2.2700
2.2626
2.2555
1.9689
1.9652
1.9615
1.9579
1.9542
1.7855
1.7890
1.7805
1.7782
1.7879 ' 1.6605
1.6587
1.6568
1.6550
1.6532
1.5621
1.5607
1.5592
1.5511
1.5563
1.4820
1.4808
1.4795
1.4783
1.4771
1.4143
1.4183
1.4122
1.4112
1.4102
388 PRIMUM MOBILE.
TABLE
A
OI
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
L?
70 80 90
10° 11° 12°
\
Ov-FUMI—O
:;;:|;@w~ml
........_.._.|
.— @0040
v
' 1.4109
1.4091
1.4081
1.4071
1.4060
1.4050
1.4040
1.4080
1.4090
1.4010
1.8999
... ,.__...
1.3989
1.3979
1.8969
1.8959
1.8919
1.8599
1.8518
1.85041
1.8495
1.8136
1.8477
1 8468
1.8459
1.8450
1.8441
1.8439
1 8010
1-8009
1.9994
1.9986
1.9978
1.9970
1.9558
1.9545
1.9538
1.9.581
1.9594
1.9517
1.9189
1.9189
1.9195
1.9119
1.9119
1.2106
1.1761
1.1755
1.1749
1.1748
1.1787
1.1781
1.9969
1.9954
1.9946
1.9989
1.9931
1.9510
1.9509
1.9495
1.2488
1.9481
1.2099
1.2098
1.9086
1.9080
1.9073
1.17
1.1719
1.1718
1.1707
1.1701
13""
1.1413
1.1408
1.1402
1.1597
1.1891
1.1385
1.1860
1.1374
1.1869
1.1368
1.1358
1.8498
1.8415
1.8406
1.5897
1.8888
1.9998
1.9915
1.99117
1.9899
1.9891
1.9474
1.9167
1.9459
1.9459
1.9445
1.9067
1.9061
1.9054
1.9017
1.9041
1.169!)
1.1689
1.1683
1.1677
1.1671
1.1859
1.1347
1.1841
1.1886
1.1331
1.3989
1.8999
1.8919
1.8909
1.8898
1.8379
1.3370
1.8369
1.8858
1.8844
1.9883
1.2315
1.9868
1.9860
1.2aa2
91
99
93
94
95
96
97
98
1.9488
1.9481
1.9494
1.9417
1.9410
1.9085
1.2098
1.9099
1.9015
1.9009
1.1665
1.1659
1.1654
1.1648
1.1649
1.1325
1.1519
1.1514
1.1809
1.1808
1.3890
1.9880
1.8870
1 8860
1.3690
1.8841
1.8881
1 3891
1.8819
1.8809
1.8886
1.8897
1.8318
1.8810
1.8301
1.8998
1.8984
1.8975
1.8967
1.8959
1.9845
1.9887
1.9899
1.9891
1.9814
_-.__
1.9806
1.9798
1.9791
1.9788
1.9775
1.9408
1.9896
1.9889
1.9889
1.2875
1.9868
1.9569
1.9355
1.9348
1.9841
1.9008
1.1996
1.1990
1.1984
1.1977
1.1971
1.1965
1.1958
1.1959
1.1946
1.1696
1.1680
1.1694
1.1619
1.1618
1.1607
1.1601
1.1595
1.1589
1.1584
1.1998
1.1999
1.1287
1.1982
1.1276
1.1971
1.1966
1.1960
1.1955
1.1949
v—
.
1111111015 110111151. 389
41
TABLE
01-“
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
’ 7° 5° 99 10° 11° 12° 15°
3[ [.3799 1.3250 [.9768 [.9334 [.1939 [.1578 [.1244
3‘! [.3783 [.3741 [.2760 [.2397 1.l933 1.1572 1.1238
33 [.3773 [.3233 [.2753 [.9320 [.1927 [.1566 [.1233
3‘ [.3763 1.3221- [.2746 [.93[3 [.1990 [.1560 1.1928
35 [.3754 1.32“: [.9737 [.9306 1.1914- 1.[555 [.[222
36 [.3745 [.3208 [.2750 1.2300 [.1908 [.1549 [.1917
37 [.3735 [.3199 [.2732 [.2293 [.1902 1.1543 [. [2“?
38 1.3795 [.3[9l [2715 [.2286 [.1895 [.[537 [.1‘206*
39 1.3716 [.3183 [.2707 [.9279 [.1839 [.[53‘3 [.IBM
40 1.3706 [.3[74 1.2700 1.2272 [.1883 [.[526 [.[[913
4-1 [.3697 [.3166 [.2692 [.9965 [.1877 [.[5‘20 [.[191
42 [.3688 [.3[53 1.9685 1.2259 [.[87[ [.[515 [.1186
4‘5 [.3678 [.3109 [.2577 [.2952 l.[86-[- [.1509 [.[[80
4S [.3669 [.SM-l .2070 [.9346 [.1858 [.1503 [.l [75
415 [.3000 [.3133 [.2063 [.2239 1.1852 1.[498 1.1[70
[846 1.1492 [.[[641
[8‘0 [.[486 1.][519
46 1.3050 [.3[9~1- [.2655 [.9232
417 [.364[ [.3[ [6 [.2648 1.9293
4-8 [.3638 [MOS [.2640 1. .1831» [.1481 [[154
49 1.3692 [.3039 I 2633 1.2%? [828 [.1-1-75 [.1 [4-8
50 [.3613 [.3091 [.9696 [.9200 [.[892 [.1469 [.1143
6-4.-5-4-
5| [.3604 [.3083 [.2618 [.9198 [.1816 1.146% [.[[38
52 [.3595 [.3075 [.961[ [.9192 [.1309 1.1458 [.[[33
b3 1.3.585 [.3067 [.9003 l 2185 [.1803 1.145? [ [1‘28
54 [.3576 [.3059 1.2.196 [.9178 [ [7‘17 [.[4-1-7 [.1123
55 [.3567 [.3050 [.2589 [.2l72 [.179[ [.141-1 [.[[[7
56 [.3558 [.3012 [.9532 l‘ll65 [.[785 [.1435 [.[[l'.’
57 [.3549 1.303!- [ 9574- [,2[53 [.[779 1.1430 [.[[07
58 [.3540 [.3086 l 2567 [ ?[5'.' 1.1773 [.1424 [.[[02
59 [.353[ [.3018 [9500 1.9[4-5 1.1767 [.[H9 [.1096
60 [.3529 [.3010 [.‘2553 [.2[39 [.[761 1.1413 l.[09[
I
r
390 PR] MUM MOBILI
A
TABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
~
14" . 15° 10° 17° 183 19°
200 I
IIUHF'JWF—O
Okbmddi
92
87
OO~1q 1.0512
1.0507
1.0502
1.0498
1.0493
1.0489
10181
1.0480
1.0475
1.0471
L0466
0000
H996
9992
9988
9984
9980
9976 I
9972
9968
9964
9900
9956
9952
9918
9914
9940
9956
9932
9928
9924
9920
9765
9761
9757
9754
9750
9746
9742
9738
9795
9751
9727
9723
9720
9716
9712
9708
9701
9701
9697
9693
9689
9916
9912
9908
9905
9901
9897
9893
9869
9885
9881
9686
9682
9678
9675
967 l
9667
9604
9600
9056
9652
1 1091
1.1086
1.1081
1.1070
1.1071
1.1066
1.1061
1.1055
1.1050
1.1015
1.1010
1.1035
1.1050
1.1025
1.1020
1.1015
1.
1.
1.0782
1.0777
1.0772
1.0768
1.0765
1.07.38
1.0753
1.0709
1.0744
1.0759
1.0734
1.0729
1.0725
1.0720
1.0462
1.0458
1.0453
1.0148
1.0144
1.0218
1.02114
1.0240
1.0235
1.0231
1.0227
1.0223‘
1 0218
1.0214
1.0210
1.0206
1.0201
1.1009
1.1004
1.0999
1.0994
1.0989
1.0715
1.0710
1.0706
1.0701
1.0696
1.0140
1.0135
1.0131
1.0426
1.0422
1 0984'
1.0979
1.0974
1.0969
1.0964
1.0959
1.0954
1.0949
1.0944
1.0939
l 0692
1.0687
1.0082
1.0678
1.0679
1.0668
1.0665
1.0659
1.0654
1.0649
1.0118
1.0113
1.0408
1.0404
1.0400
1.0395
1.0391
1.0386
1.0382
1.0378
9542
9559
9535
955?
9528
952%
9521
9117
9113
9510
9506
9305
9499
9095
9492
9488
948’)
94-81
9478
947 4
9470
9407
9168
9460
9156
9155
9449
94 46
. 2|U
9381
9527
9328
9520
9317
9513
9310
9306
9305
9300
9295'
9293
9289
9286
9282
9279
9276
92 72
9269 1
9265
9262
9259
92.35
9252
9249
924 5
9242
9258
9255
9231
92.28
11111511111 MOBILE. 391
.11
TABLE
011
PROPORTIONAL LO'GARITHMS.
' 14° 15° 16° 17° 18° 19° 20° 21°
91 1.0984 l.064115 1.0118 1.0118 9811 964-8 9481 9225
92 1.0929 1.0640 1.0569 1.0114 9818 9645 9428 9221
85 1.0924 1.0695 1.0865 1.0110 9869 9641 9425 9218
94 1.0919 1.0 99'. 1.0360 1.0106 9865 96.11 9421 9215
35 1.0914 1.0626 1.0856 1.0102 9861 9684 9411 9211
36 1.0909 1.0621 1.0952 1.0098 9858 9680 9414 9208
51 1.0904 1.0611 1.0811 1.0099 98.54 9626 2410 9805
88 1.0899 1 0612 1.0845 1.0089 9850 9629 9401 9201
59 1.0894 1.0608 1.0859 1.0085 9846 9619 9404 9198
40 1.0889 1.0608 1.0884 1.0081 9842 9615 9400 9195
41 1.0884 1.05981 1.0580 1.0011 9858 9612 9896 9191
42 1.0880 1.0594 1.0326 1.0018 9854- 9608 9898 9188
48 1.0815 1.0589 1.0821 1.0069 9880 9604 9889 9185
4-1 1.0810 1.0584 1.0511 1.0065 9826 9601 9386 9181
45 1.0865 1.0580 1.0818 1.0061 9828 9591 9888 9118
46 1.0860 1.0515 1,0508 1.0051 9819 9595 9379 9115
41 1.0855 1.0511 1.0804 1.0055 9815 9590 "9875 9111
48 1.0850 1.0566 1.0800 1.0049 9811 9586 9812 9168
49 1.0645 1.0561 1.0295 1.0041 9801 9582 9968 9165
50 1.0840 1.0551 1.0291 1.0040 9805 9519 9965 2161
51 1.0835 1 0552 1.0281 1.0056 9800 9515 9862 9158
52 1.0880 1.0518 1.0282 1.0092 9196 9511 9958 9155
58 1.0826 1.0545 1.0218 1.0028 9192 9568 9855 9151
54 1.0821 1.0559 1 0214 1.0024 9188 9564 9851 9148
55 1.0816 1.0584 1.0269 1.0020 9184 9560 9848 9145
56 1.0811 1.0529 1.0265 1.0016 9180 9551 9844 9141
51 1.0806 1.0525 1.0261 1.0012 9111 9555, 98-18 9198
58 1.0801 1.0520 1.0251 1.0008 9118 9549 9811 9155
59 1.0196 1.0516 1.0252 1.0001. 9169 9546 9881 9182
60 1.0192 1.0612 I 1.0248 1.0000 9165 9542 9854 9128
m“ ,____ ‘_‘ ’ *C'H \ __
_._.
3512 PRIMUM 110151ng
11
TABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
22° 030
~ 94° 25° 26’ 27° 28° 7790
30° 31°
"9128
9125
9122
9119
9115
9112
9109
9105
‘9102
9099
9096
9092
9089
9086
9079
9076
9073
9070
9066
9063
9060
9056
9059
9050
9047
-,._-_
9041
9087
9084
9051
8935
8932
8929
8926
8923
8920
8917
8915
8910
8907
8904
8901
8898
8895
8891
8888
8885
8882
8879
8876
8873
8870
8867
8864
8861
8857
8854
8851
8848
8845
8842
8751
8748
8745
8742
8789
8736
8733
8790
8727
8724
8721
8718
8715
8712
8709
8706
8703
8700
8697
8694
8691
seas
8685
8682
8679
8616
8675
8670
8667
8664
8661
8573
8570
8567
8555
8362
8559
8556
8555
8550
8547
8544
8541
8539
8350
8333
8550
8527
8521
8322
8519
8516
8513
8510
8507
8504
8501
8498
B490
3493
8490
8487
8408
8400
8897
8395
8892
8389
8386
8363
8381
8878
8375
9239
0936
8231
8231
8228
8225
.-_-—
sees
8290
0917
,8915
0212
7929
7926
7924
7921
7919
7916
7914
7911
7909
7906
7904
7782
7779
7776
7774
7772
7769
7767
7764
7762
7760
7757
7639
7637
7651
7632
7650
7627
7625
7623
7620
7618
7616
8372
6870
8367
8364
8561
8358
8356
8353
8850
8347
8345
8342
8559
8537
8384
8307
8898
8326
.3223
8320
8209
8207
8204
6202
8199
7001
_7899
7896
7594
7891
7755
7753
7750
7748
7745
7613
7611
7609
7606
7604
8196
8194
8191
8188
8186
8183
13180
8178
8175
8172
8170
8167
8164
8162
8159
7889
7886
7884
7881
7879
7743
7740
7738
7756
7733
7602
7599
7597
7595
7592
8081
3078
8076
8073
8071
8068
8066
8065
8060
8058
8055
8053
8050
8047
8045
8013
'8040
5037
8035
8052
8050
8027
8024
8022
8020
8017
8014
8012
8009
8007
8004
7877
7874
7872
7869
7867
7864
7862
7859
7857
7855
7731
7729
7726
7724
7721
7719
7717
7714
7712
7710
7590
7588
7583
7581
7579
7577
7574
1572
7570
PROPORTIONKL
mama" 0...... ‘ 393’
11
TABLE
OF
LOGARITHMS.
" 22°
9021
9021
s 9021
901a
9015
23°
9012
9008
9005
9 9002
8999
1 8995
8992
8989
8986
8988
8980
8976
8973
8970
8967
8964
8960
8954
8951
8948
8945
8942
8958
8935
8957,
8839
8836
8833
8830
8827
8824
8820
8768
8760
8757
8754
8751
24°
8658
8655
8552
8649
8646
8645
8640
8637
8635
8632
8629
8626
8623
8620
8617
8614
8611
8608
8605
8602
8599
8596
8591
8588
8585
8582
8579
8576
8573
25°
8484
8481
8479
8476
8473
27°
8157
8154
8152
e119
8146
29°
7852
7849
7941
7914
7842
8470
8467
8464
8462
8459
8144 7840
7837
7835
7832
7830
8138
8136
8135
8130
8128
_9195
8122
9190
8456
8453
8450
8448
8445
7827
7825
7823
7320
7818
8442
8439
8437
8434
8431
8117 7815
7818
7811
7808
7805
8112
8109
8107
81044
8102
8099
8097
8094
8428
8425
8422
8420
8417
7803
7801
7798
7797
7793
8414
8411
8108
8406
8403
8091
9099
8086
8084
8081
7791
7789
7786
7784
7782
PRIMUM MOBILE
A
if 11 13 I, 12
6F
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
v32°
7501
7499
7496
7494
7492
7490
7488
7485
7463
7481
7478
LOW~1611K776~UNIH°1
11 7476
7474
7479
7409
7467
7465
7465
7461
7458
7456
7454
7459
7449
7447
7445
7445
7441
7438
7496
7434
83°
7368'
7365
7565
7561
7359
7356
7354
7352
7350
7348
7345
7343
7341
7839
7337
7335
7832
7330
7338
7596
7324
7322
7319
7517
1515
7318
7311
7809
7306
7304
7309
36°
6990
6988
6986
6984
6982
6980
6978
6976
6974
6979
6970
6968
6966
6964
6962
6960
6958
6956
6954
6952
6950
6948
6946
6944
6949
6940
6988
6936
~ 6934
6952
6950
l
(A
\a
6871
6869
6867
6865
6863
6861
6859
6857
6855
6865
6861
6849
6841
6845
6843
6841
6889
6837
6836
6884
6832
6830
6898
6896
6894
6892
6890
6818
6816
6814
6812
38°
6755
6753
6751
6749
6747
6745
6745
6741
6739
6738
6736
6734
6739
6730
6798
6726
6744
6792
6721
6719
6717
6715
6713
6711
6709
6707
6705
6704
6702
6700
6698
39°
6649
6640
6658
6657
6635
6633
6651
6629
6627
6625
6625
6691
6690
6618
6616
661+
6619
6610
6609
6607
660$
6605
6601
6599
6598
6596
6594
6592
6590
6688
6587
40°
6552
6530
6528
6527
6525
6523
6521
6519
6517
6516
6514
6512
6510
6506
6507
6505
6503
6501
6500
6498
6496
6494
6492
6490
6489
6487
6485
6484
6482
6180
6478
41°
6495
6495
6421
6420
6418
6416
6414
6419
6411
6407
6405
6404
6409
6400
6398
6397
6395
6393
6391
6390
6388
6386
6384
6583
6581
6379
6377
6376
6374
6372
9171111011 11011113. 395
A
, TABLE
6 U 0F
PROPORTIONAL ‘LOGARITHMS. '
32
Si
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
45
47
48
49
50
52
53
54
55
56
57
60
‘
36°
6928
6926
6924
6922
6920
35°
7048
7046
7044
32°
7481
7429
7427
7425
7423
7421
7418
7416
7414
7411
7409
7407
7405
7403
7401
7998
7396
7594
7392
7389
7387
7385
7383
7381
7978
7376
7574
7372
7370
7568
33°
7300
7298
7295
7293
7291
7289
7287
7285
‘7283
7281
7278
7276
7274
7272
7270
7268
7266
7261
7261
7259
_7257
7255
7253
7251
7248
7246
7244
7242
7240
7238
34°
7172
7170
7168
7166
7164
37°
6810
6808
6807
6805
6803
38°
6696
6694
6692
6690
6689
40° 41°
6370
6369
c367
6365
6368
6362
6360
6358
6357
6355
6553
6351
6349
6348
6346
6344
6342
6341
6559
6357
6336
6334
6332
6831
6329
6476
6474
6479
6471
6469
6467
6465
6464
6462
6460
6458
6457
6455
6458
6451
6449
6448
6446
6444
6442
6441
6499
6437
6435
6434
6432
6430
6428
6426
6425
6801
6799
6797
6795
6793
6791
6789
6787
6785
6784
6782
6780
6778
'6776
6774
6772
6770
6768
6766
6764
6762
6761
6759
6757
6755
6918
6916
6914
6912
6910
6908
6906
6901
6902
6900
6898
6896
6894
6892
6890
6888
6886
6884
6882
6880
6878
6877
6875
6873
6871
6687
6685
6683
6681
6679
6677
6676
6674
6672
6670
6668
6666
6664
6662
6660
6659
6657
'6655
6655
6651
6649
6648
6646
6644
6642
7162
7160
7158
7156
7153
7151
"149
7147
7145
7143
7141
7139
7137
7135
7133 7010
6527
6325
6323
6322
6520
39
‘9 ‘:
PRIMUM MOBILE
A
TABLE
7 ()F
PROPORTIONAL LOGAR-ITHMS.
47°
5852
5890
5828
5827
5825
5824
5825
5821
5819
“5818
5816
5815
5813
5812
5810
5809
5807
5805
5804
6802
5801
5800
5798
5796
5796
5793
5792
6790
5789
5787
5786
5712
5709
5707
5706
5704
5703
5101
5698
5697
5695
49°
5651
6649
5648
5646
5645
5643
5642
6640
5639
5657
5636
5654
6633
5631
5630
5629
5627
6626
5624
5628
5621
5620
5618
5617
5615
5614
5612
5611
5609
5608
5607
42°
6520
6818
6317
6315
6313
6511
6810
6308
6806
6305
6303
6301
6300
6298
6296
6294
6295
6291
6289
6287
6286
6284
6282
6281
6279
6277
6275
6274
6272
6270
6269
430'
6218
6216
6214
6213
6211
6209
6208
6206
6204
6203
6201
6199
6198
6196
6194
6193
6191
6189
6188
6186
6184
6183
6179
6178
5176
6174
6173
6169
6168
449
6118
6116
6115
6113
6111
6110
6108
6106
6105
6108
6102
6100
6099
6097
6096
6094
6092
6090
6089
6087
6085
6084
6082
6080
6079
6077
6075
6074
6072
6071
6069
45°
6021
6019
6017
6016
6014
6012
6011
6009
6008
6006
6004
6005
6001
6000
5998
5997
5995
5993
5992
5990
5988
5987
5985
5984
6982
5980
5979
5977
5976
5974
5973
50°
5563
5561
5560
5559
5557
5556
5554
5553
5551
5650
5548
5547
5546
5514
5543
5541
5540
5538
5537
5535
5534
5533
5531
5530
5528
5527
5525
5524
5522
5521
5520
5477
5475
5474
5478
5471
5470
5469
5467
5465
5464
5463
5461
5460
5458
5457
5456
5454
5453
5452
5450
5449
5447
5446
5444
5443
5441
5440
5437
5456
w
ynuuum monux.
Jk
TABLE
\OF
PROPORTIONAL
397
LOGARITHMS.
51
32
85
55
36
57
58
39
40
41
42
13_
45
42°
6267v
6265‘
6264
0262
6260
6259
6257
6255
6251
6252
6250
6248
6247
6245
6243
6241
6240
6238
6236
6235
6235
6231
6250
6228
6226
6225
6223
6221
6220
6218
43°
6166
6165
6163
6161
6159
6158
6156
6154
6153
6151
6149
6118
6146
6144
6113
6141
6139
6198
6136
6134
6133
6131
6130
6128
6126
6125
6123
6121
6120
6118
45°
5971
5969
5968
5900
5964
5963
5961
5910
5958
5957
5955
5964
5952
5950
5949
5947
5945
5914
5942
5941
5959
5938
5936
5935
5935
5931
5928
5927
5925
5930
46
47
49
'50
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
44°
60-7
6066
6064
6062
6061
0059
v058
6056
6055
6055
6051
5050
6018
6016
6045
6043
6041
6040
6038
6037
6035
6033
6032
6030
5028
6027
6025
6024
6022
6021
46°
5876
5875
5874
5872
5870
5669
5867
5966
5864
5862
5861
5860
5858
5856
5855
5853
5859
5850
5849
5847
5846
5844
5842
5841
5889
5838
5836
5835
5833'
5832
47°
-_L
5784
5783
5781
5779
5778
5777
5775
5773
5772
5770
5769
5768
5766
5764
5765
5761
5700
5758
5757
5755
5751
5752
5751
5749
5748
5746
5745
5745
5742
5740
48°
5594
5699
5691
seas
5688
6686
seas
seas
5682
5680
5679
5677
5676
5674
5673
5671
5670
5669
5667
5665
5664
5662
550]
5660
5658
5656
5655
5654
5652
5651
49°
5605
5604
5602
5601
5599
5598
5596
5595
5594
5592
5590
5589
5587
5586
5585
5583
5582
5580
5579
5577
5576
5574
5573
5572
5570
5569
5567
5566
5564
5563
50°
5518
5517
5516
5514
5512
5511
5510
5508
5507
5505
5504
5505
5500
5498
5497
5495
5494
5492
5491
5490
5488
5487
5486
5484
5482
5481
5460
5478
5477
51°
5425
5422
5420
5429
5427
5426
5425
5423
5422
5420
5419
5418
5416 >
5415
5414
5412
5411
5409
5408
5406
5405
5401
5402
5401
5999
5398
5397
5395
5394
5393
8118
2.
ll
7F 11 13 I2 15
O]
PROPORTIONAL
PRXMUM 110311.11.
LOGARITHMS.
-
o
¢>m
a
m
1
019
Ml:
~19
Iw__~,-Q!
--.__-.-1
0&0QO
W-PQONI—J
1:
110
w
6
m
m0'1
u~+bﬁ|<1>l
889$
53°
5510
5308
5907
6306
5304
5305
5309
5900
6999
5298
5296
5295
5294
5992
5291
5290
5288
5287
5985
5284
5283
5981
5290
5278
5977
5276
5274
5973
5972
5970
5969
~
54°
.1222
5927
5226
5225
0223
5222
5221
5212
521a
5211
5215
5211
1212
5211
5210
5209
saw
5206
0205
5203
5202
5901
5199
5198
5197
5195
5194
5193
5191
5190
5169
55°
5149
5148
5146
5145
5144
5149
5141
5110
5133
5191
5136
5134
0132
5192
5130
5129
512a
5121
0125
5121
5125
5199
5190
5119
5118
5116
5115
5114
5112
5111
5110
56°
5071
5069
5068
5067
5065
5064
5063
5062
5060
6059
5058
5056
5055
5054
5053
5051
5050
5049
5048
5046
5045
5044
5042
5041
5040
5038
5097
5086
5035
5058
5089
58°
4918
4917
4916
4215,
4913
4912
4911
4910
4908
4907
4906
4905
4903
490?
4901
4900
4893
4897
4896
4895
4893
4892
4891
4890
4889
4887
4886
4885
4883
4882
4881
59°!
@8141
418-}? 1
4815‘
4841
4839
4858
4837
4235
1834
4853
4832
4881
4830
4898
4827
4825
4894
4823
4322
4821
4890
4819
4817
4816
4815
4813
4312
4811
4810
4809
4808
60°
57°
4994
4992
4991
4990
4989
4987
4986
4985
4984
4983
4981
4980
4979
4977
4976
4975
4975
4972
4971
4970
4968
4967
4966
4965
4964
4962
4961
4960
4958
4957
4956
4771
4770
4769
4768
766
4765
4764
4703
4761
4760
4759
4758
4757
4755
4754
4753
4752
4751
4750
4748
4747
4746
4745
4743
4742
4741
4740
4739
4737
4736
4755
01°
4699
4698
4697
4696
1094
4098
4099
4691
4690
1039
4687
4686
4685
4684
4683
4682
4680
4679
4678
4677
4576
4675
4673
4672
4671
4510
4669
4668
4666
4665
4664
PBXMUM MOBILI
1!
TABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
32
34
35
36
37
38
39
42
43
44
45
46
47
49
50
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
60
52°
5350
5348
5347
5345
5344
5343
5341
5340
5339
5337
5336
5335
5333
5332
5331
5329
5328
5326
5325
5323
5322
5321
5319
5318
5317
5315
5314
5312
5311
5310
53° 54° 55°
5108
5107
5106
5104
5108
5102
5100
5099
5098
5097
5095
6094
5093
5091
5090
5089
5087
5086
5085
5084
5082
5081
5080
5019
5011
5016
5015
5013
5012
5011
57°
4955
4953
4952
4951
4950
4949
4947
4946
4945
4943
4942
4941
4940
4938
4937
4936
4934
4993
4932
4931
4930
4928
4921
4926
4924
4993
4922
492l
4919
4918
58°
4880
4878
4877
4876
4875
4874
4872
4871
4870
4869
4867
4866
4865
4864
4863
4861
4860
4859
4858
4856
4855
4854
4853
4852
4850
4819
48 8
48
4845
4844
60°
4734
4733
4732
4730
4729
4728
4727
4725
4724
4723
4722
4721
4719
4718
4717
4716
4715
4714
4712
4711
4710
4709
4708
4707
4705
4704
4703
4702
4700
4699
5268
5266
5265
5264
5262
5261
5260
5258
5257
5255
5254
'5253
5251
5250
5249
5247
5246
6245
5243
5242
5241
5239
5238
5237
5235
5234
5233
5231
6230
5229
5187
5186,
0180
5183
5182
5181
5179
5178
5177
5175
5174
73
5171
5170
5169
5167
5166
5165
5163
5162
5161
5159
5158
5157
5155
5154
5153
5152
5150
5149
56°
5031
5029
5028
5027
5026
5025
5023
5022
5021
5019
5018
5017
5015
5014
5013
5012
5010
5009
5008
5006
5005
5004
5003
5002
5000
4999
4998
4996
4995
4994
59°
4806
4803
4804
4809
4801
4800
4799
4798
4797
4795
4794
4793
4792
4790
4789
4788
4787
4786
4784
4783
4782
4781
4779
4778
4777
4776
4776
4773
4772
4771
61°
4668
4661
4660
4659
4658
4657
4656
4654
4653
4652
4651
4650
4648
4647
4646
4645
4644
4643
4641
4640
4639
4638
4637
4636
4634
4633
4632
4631
4630
4629
400 PRIML'M' MOBILI
A5
TABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL
LOGuARITHMS.
E|§355315Z55:150m401v>uw~ol‘
62°
4699
4697
4696
4695
4624
4623
4699
4690
4619
4618
4617
4616
4615
4613
4619
4611
4610
4609
4608
4606
4605
4604
4603
4609
4601
4600
4598
4597
4596
4595
4594
63°
1559
4558
+551
4556
4555
4553
4559
4551
4550
4549
4548
4547
4546
4544
4543
4649
4541
4540
4539
4537
4536
4536
4534
4533
4539
4530
4599
4598
4597
4596
4525
4494
4492
4491
4490
4419
4418
4417
4416
4415
4414
4419
4411
4410
4409
4408
4407
4406
4405
4404
4409
4401
4400
4399
4398
4597
4396
4395
4394
4399
4391
4390
65° 67°
4292
4991
4290
1989
4987
4286
4985
1204
4285
4282
423]
4980
4979
4978
4977
4976
4975
4974
4218
4971
4970
4969
4968
4967
4966
4965
4964
4963
4969
4961
4960
68°
4238
492a
4925
4224
4223
+222
4991
4990
4919
4918
4917
4916
4915
4914
4213
4912
4911
4910
4909
4907
4906
4905
4904
4903
4909
4201
4900
4199
4198
4197
4196
69°
4164
4163
4169
4161
4160
4159
70°
4109
4101
4100
4099
4098
4097
4096
4094
4093
4099
4091
4090
4089
4088
4097
4086
4085
4084
4083
4089
4081
4000
‘4079
4078
4077
4076
4075
4074
4073
4079
4071
64°
4491
4490
4489
4488
4486
4485
4484
4433
4489
4481
4179
4478
4477
4476
4475
4474
4473
4479
4471
4469
4463
4467
4466
4465
4464
4463
4461
4460
4459
4458
4457
66°
4357
435:“
4355
4354
4353
4359
4551
4349
4348
4347
4346
4345
4544
4343
4349
4341
4340
4339
4358
4336
4535
1331
1333
4339
4351
4330
4599
4398
4997
4896
4395
71°
4040
4039
4058
4037
4036
4055
4054
4033
4032
4031
4030
4099
4098
4097
4026
4094
4092
4091
4090
4019
4018
4017
4015
4014
4013
4011
4010
__-r I‘JA“
PRIMUM MOBILE
41
TABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL
401
LOGARITHMS.
_
$182238|828321
55044
umvvu
u+
+5
+$ha
Oomuml
U'i‘ulQ—1
U‘ihuw
62° 63°
4524
4529
4522
4520
4519
4515
4511
4515
4515
4519
4512
4511
4510
4509
4508
4507
4506
4505
4503
4502
4501
4500
4499
4498
4496
4495
4494
4493
4492
4191
64°
4455
4455
4454
4452
4451
4450
4149
4448
4447
4445
4445
4444
4442
4441
4440
4439
4438
4457
4436
4485
4454
4432
4431
4430
4429
4428
4427
4426
4425
4424
65°
4389
4388
4951
4995
4955
4384
4909
4951
4380
4979
4378
4377
4876
4375
4374
4372
4371
4870
4369
4868
4367
4366
4365
4364
4363
4362
4361
4359
4358
4357
66°
4525
4822
4321
4320
4519
4318
4817
4316
4315
4315
4512
4511
4310
4309
4308
4307
4306
4805
4304
4803
4302
4500
4299
4298
4297
4296
4295
4294
4298
4292
67°
4258
4237
4256
4255
4254
4258
4252
4251
4250
4249
4248
4241
4246
4245
4244
4242
4241
4240
4239
4238
4297
4296
4235
4284
4233
4252
4231
4230
4229
4228
68°
4195
4194
4193
4191
4190
4189
4199
4187
4155
4185
4595
4591
4590
4589
4588
4587
4586
4585
4 4584
4582
4581
4580
4579
4578
4577
4575
4574
4573
4572
4571
4570
4568
4567
4566
4566
4564
4563
4561
4560
4559
4184
4185
4182
4181
4180
4179
4178
4177
4176
4175
4174
4173
4172
4171
4169
4168
4167
4166
4165
'4164
69°
4132
4131
4-130
4129
4128
4127
4126
4125
4124
4122
4121
4120
4119
4118
4117
4116
4114
4118
4112
4111
4110
4109
4108
4107
4106
4105
4104
4103
4102
70°
4070
4069
4068
4057
4005
4065
4064
4063
4062
4061
4060
4059
4057
4056
4055
4054
4053
4052
4051
4050
4049
4048
4047
4046
4045
4044
4043
4042
4041
4040
71°
4009
4005 '
4001
4005
4005
4004
4009
4009
4001
4000
9999
9999
9991
9995
9995
3995
$992
3991
3990
3989
3988
3987
5986
S985
3984
3983
3982'
3981
3980
9979
3(3
402 ramt'u moaxu.
A
$ABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
~
5|8353515353:130045|w+um~ol
22
2k
25
7Q°
9979
3979
5971
9976
9975
‘8974
8978
8972
8971
8970
3969
8968
5967
8966
8965
8964
8963
3969
3961
9960
3969
3958
5957
3956
3955
3954
3953
3951
3951
5950
3949
7?
3919
3918
3917
5917
3916
3915
391%
5918
5912
3911
S910
5909
3908
3907
3906
5905
3904
3903
3902
3901
3900
3899
3898
3897
3596
3895
3895
3895
3892
3891
74° '
3860
3859
3858
55§7
5856
3855
3855
5354
3853
3359
3361
5850
38$9
3843
361-7
3846
3845
3841
38‘3
3849
3841
3840
3839
3838
3837
3836
3835
3834
5833
5838
585]
75°
3809
3801
3800
3799
3798
3797
3796
S795
3796
3793
S799
3791
3791
3790
S789
3788
3787
3786
3785
3784
783
3782
3781
3780
3779
3778
3711
317a
9175
3714
3115
76°
8745
374‘
9145
57+?
3741
8740
8739
5738
8757
3736
8795
5754
5735
26
21
28
29
5690
3732
5731
5750
3799
S728
3727
9726
3725
9725
3724
3723
3722
3731
3120
3719
5718
3117
3116
7”
S688
3687
3686
3685
368+
$685
$682
3681
S630
8679
3678
S677
3677
3676
3675
867%
3673
3679
3671
3670
3669
3668
S661
3666
3665
$064
3663
8663
3662
3661
S660
7“
3030
3631
9630
3629
3698
5627
8626
5625
3624
3635
5692
8621
3621
3620
5619
3618
8617
3616
9616
3614
3613
8612
3611
3610
3610
3609
5608~
3607
5006
3605
3604
79°
8576
3575
3574
5574
5573
3572
8571
8570
$569
5568
3567
5566
3565
5561
$563
3563
3562
3561
3560
3559
3558
5557
5556
3555
3555
355$
3553
3559
3551
3550
3549
son
3522
5521
3520
5519
3518
3517
$616
3515
3614
3514
3513
3519
3511
3510
3509
S508
3507
3506
3506
3505
$504
5503
3509
3501
8500
5499
3498
3097
3996
3496
3495
81°
3468
3467
3‘65
(13ar\4I 'T?=!f‘~
HUMUM-MOELB.
A
1‘1\ 13 1, Ii
0‘,
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
403
56
72°
3948
3947
3046
8946
S944
3943
3942
394]
3940
3939
3958
3987
3936
$935
3934
3933
8939
3931
3950
3999
$928
5927
3926
3995
399%
3923
3929
3921
3990
39|9
73°
3889
3838
3887
2886
3885
888%
5985
3882
3891
$880
3879
3878
3877
3876
5875
3874
3873
387?
8871
3870
3869
3868
3867
3866
3865
366%
3863
3862
3861
3860
ﬂ
\~~
73°
3603
3609
360]
3600
3599
3598
3697
3596
3596
3596
5504 '
5593
3592
3591
3590
3589
3588
3587
3586
3583
3535
3584
5595
5589
5581
3580
9519
3578
$577
3976
" ‘Q‘N'I-\ _-. _-‘ ‘
79°
3548
74°
5830
3899
3828
3827
3896
3823
389%
3829
3892
S82!
3820
9820
3819
3818
3317
9816
3815
381+
5813
5819
3811
SUIO
3809
2808
380/
3806
5805
380$
3803
3802
75°
3779
3771
3770
3769
3768
3768
9767
5766
5765
3764
3765
S769
3761
3760
3159
3753
8757
3756
5755
3754
5153
3752
5751
3750
5719
3743
5747
37+;
37(5
3740
76°
87l5
3714
37|s
3712
S7ll
8710
3109
3708
S708
3707
3706
3705
370¢
$703
9709
970!
8100
9599
8698
8697
3696
3695
3694
3593
5692
3691
3691
3690
3689
3686
"1.
77°
3659
3658
3657
3666
3655
365!
3653
3552
3651
3650
3649
3649
3648
3647
3646
3645
3u44
3643
564l
8640
3659
3638
3657
3556
5636
5635
8634
3633
3632
80°
5494
3493
$499
9491
3490
3489
8488
3487
3‘87
3486
._,,_.
3485
81°
3540
3439
3438
9438
3431
3436
3&35
3494
5435
549a
sgsl
3+5:
2450
3429
3428
3‘27
8426
2125
342‘
$423
3423
5492
3421
3420
9419
54l8
ﬁll?
$416
34l5
$415
404 PRIMUM monux.
A
TABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
82° 83° 84° 85° 80° 87° 88° 89° 90° 91°
34-15 33159 8310 3259 3208 3158 3108 3059 3010 2962
3414- 3361 3309 3258 3201 3157 3107 3058 3009 2961
34-13 3360 3308 3257 3206 3156 3106 3057 3009 2961
81-12 3359 3307 3256 3205 3155 3105 3056 3008 2960
3411 3358 3306 3255 3201- 3154 3105 3056 5000 2959
34-10 3358 3506 3954- 3203 3153 3104- 3055 3006 2958
34-09 35 57 3305 3253 3203 3153 3103 3054 3005 2958
3408 3356 3304- 3263 3202 3152 3102 30.53 3005 2957
3407 3355 3303 3252 3201 3151 3101 3052 3004- 2956
54-07 3351 3302 3251 3200 3160 3101 3052 3003 2955
3406 3353 3301 3250 3199 314-9 3100 3051 3002 2954
__________~___________
3405 3352 3300 324-9 . 3198 3148 3099 3050 3001 295-1
3404- 3351 3300 3248 3198 31-18 3098 30-19 3001 2953
34-03 3351 3299 3247 3197 314-7 3097 30 $8 3000 2952
34-02 3350 3298 324-7 3196 3146 3096 30-17 2999 2951
34-01 3349 3297 324-6 3195 8145 3096 304-7 2998 2950
34-00 3348 3296 3245 S194- 3144 3095 3046 2997 2950
3400 334-7 3295 324-4 3193 ,314-8 3094- 3045 2997 2949
3399 334-6 3291- 3243 3199 314-3 3093 30 H- 2996 291 8
3398 3345 3294 3242 3192 3142 3092 3043 2995 2947 '
3397 3344- 8293 324-1 8191 3141 3091 304-3 2991- 29-16
3396 3344 3292 S241 3190 3140 8091 3042 2993 29%
3395 3343 3291 3240 3189 31 39 3090 3041 2993 2945
839 4 3342 3290 3239 3 188 3138 $089 3040 2992 2944
3393 3341 3289 2238 3188 3138 3088 3039 2991 2943
339.3 3340 3288 3237 3187 3187 3087 3088 2990 294-2
3392 3339 3287 2236 3186 3196 3086 3038 ‘ 2989 9942
3391 3338 ,3‘287 3236 318.5 3135 3086 3037 2989 29-11 _
3390 3338 3286 3235 3184 8134- 3085 5036 2988 29-10 7
3889 3337 3985 3234 31 83 3183 3084 3035 2987 2939 1
3.588 3336 3984- 3233 3 183 3133 3083 303-1 2986 2939 E
889991828331856531325521swm<¢|u+uw~ol
10"- __
“ -
A if V‘s» -—~'~\--_.‘N/
rmmm MOBILB.
.A
'TABLE
‘OF
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
31
33
51
35
36
37
38
59
4O
41
42
43
45
82°
3387
3386
3386
3385
3384
3985
3932
3581
3380
5379
5378
9978
3377
9376
3375
3374
3373
3372
3371
3371
3370
3369
3368
3367
5366
3365
8365
S364
9363
3362
83°
3335
3334
3333
9332
3891
3551
5380
3329
8328
3327
3526
3325
9325
932‘
3323
3822
3321
3320
3319
.3318
3518
3317
3316
3315
391+
3915
3913
3312
3311
3310
84°
3283
3282
$282
3281
3280
5279
3278
3277
3276
3276
3275
3274
3275
3272
3271
3270
3270
8269
3268
5267
3266
S265
3264
3264
3263
3262
3261
3260
3259
5259
85°
3232
5281
3231
3280
9229
8223
3227
3226
3225
3925
3221
5223
3222
3221
3220
5219
8219
S218
3217
S216
3215
3214
3214
3213
3212
3211
3210
3209
3209
8208
86°
3182
5181
3180
3119
311a
3178
3177
3176
3175
3174
3173
3173
5172
3171
3170
3169
3168
3168
9161
$166
3165
3161
3163
3163
3162
9161
3160
$159
3158
3156
3129
8128
3128
3127
9126
3125
3124
3123
3123
5122
3121
$120
3119
3119
3118
3117
3116
5115
3114
3111
3115
3112
3111
3110
$109
3109
5108
s9°
47
49
51
52
59
5+
55
56
57
58
59
60
303¢
3033
3052
3051
3030
3030
9029
3028
9027
3026
5026
3025
8024
5025
3022
$022
3021
9020
3019
8018
3018
3017
3016
3015
3014
9013
3015
3012i
30111
3010
90°
2985
2985
2984
2983
2982
2981
2981
2980
2979
2978
2977
2977
2976
2975
2974
2973
2975
2972
2971
2970
2969
2969
2968
2967
2966
2965
2965
2961
2963
2962
91°
2938
2937
2936
9955
2954
2934
2938
2932
2951
2931
2930
9929
2928
2927
2927
2926
2925
2924
2923
2923
2922
2921
2920
2920
2919
2918
2917
2916
2915
106 anun 1110111131
11'
1‘11 13 I; 15
OF
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
352
1g55331:255:180mq01v+q
1 92°
0 $2915
2901
2899
2898
2898
2897
2896
2895
2894
2894
2893
2892
2891
94°
2521
2821
2820
2319
2818
2818
2817
9816
9315
9815
2814
9313
2812
2811
2011
2010
2775
2775
2774
2778
2772
2772
2771
2770
2769
2769
2768
2767
2766
2766
2765
2764
2763
2762
2762
2761
2760
2760
2759
2755
2757
2756
2756
2755
2751
2755
2753
96“
2130
2129
2728
2128
2121
2726
2725
2725
2724
2723
2722
2722
2721
2720
2719
2719
2718
2717
2716
2716
2715
2714
2715
2713
2712
2711
2710
2710
2709
2708
2707
91°
2685
2684
2683
2683
2682
2681
2681
2680
2679
2678
2678
2677
2676
2675
2675
2674
2673
2672
2672
2671
2670
2669
2669
2668
2667
2666
26661
2665:
93°
2640
2640
2665
23
21
25
26
27
28
29
30
93°
9868
2867
2866
2866
2865
2864
2863
2862
2862
2861
2860
2859
2859
2858
2857
2856
2855
2855
2854
2853
2852
2852
2851
2850
2849
2848
2848
2847
2846
2845
2845
'2639
2638
2637
2657
2656
2635
2634
2654
2633
2632
2632
2631
2650
2629
2629
2623
2627
2626
2626
2626
2624
2623
2623
9622
2021
2621
2664 19620
seas; 2019
2618
99°
2596
2596
2595
2594
2593
2595
2592
IOO°
2555
2552
2551
25“
2550
2549
2548
2548
2547
2546
2545
2545
2544
2543
2543
2342
2541
2540
2540
2539
2558
2538
2537
2536
2535
2535
2554
2533
2632
2532
2631
1249‘
101°
2510
2509
2503
2507
2501
9506
2505
2504
2504
2505
2502
2502
2501
2500
9432
2499
2498
2497
2497
2496
2495
_
2494
2493
2492
2492
2191
2490
2469
2489
2468
PIIMUM MOBILE.
A
TABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL
407
LOGARITHMS.
31
32
33
35
92°
2890
2890
2889
2883
2387
93°
2841
2645
2812
2811
2841
91°
2798
2797
2796
2795
2795
2794
2798
2792
2792
2791
2790
2789
2788
2788
2787
2786
9785
2785
9781
2785
2782
2782
2781
2780
2779
2778
2778
2777
277»
2775‘
95°
2752'
2751
2750
2750
2749
2748
2747
2747
2746
2745
96°
2107
2706
2705
2701
2701
2708
2702
2701
2700
2699
2698
2698
2697
2696
2695
2695
2694
2695
2692
2692
2691
2690
2689
37
98
41
42
43
44
45
47
49
50
52
54
55
57
58
59
60
2887
2696
2885
2854
2885
2889
2882
2881
2880
2880
2879
2876
2877
2876
2876
2875
2814
2875
2873
2872
2871
2870
2869
2869
2868
2840
2839
2838
2838
2837
2836
2835
2894
2884
2883
2882
2831
2831
2850
2829
2828
2828
2827
2826
2825
2821
2824
2828
282!
2821
2744
2744
2743
2742
2741
2741
2740
2739
2738
2737
2737
2756
2735
2735
2734
2753
2752
2751
2781
2730
2689\
2688
2687
2686
2686
2685
98°
2618
2617
2616
2615
2616
2614
2615
2612
2612
2611
2610
2610
2609
2608
2607
2607
2606
2605
2604
2604
2603
2602
2601
2601
2600
2599
2599
2598
2597
2596
99°
2576
2573
2572
2572
2571
2570
2569
2569
2568
2567
2566
2566
2565
2564
2564
2563
2562
2561
2561
2560
2559
2558
2558
2557
2556
2556
2555
2554
2553
2555
100°
2530
9550
2529
2528
2527
9527
2526
2525
2525
2524
2523
2522
2522
2521
2520
2520
2519
2518
2511
2517
2516
2515
2514
2514
2513
2512
2512
2511
2510
2510
101°
2487
e087
2186
2485
2481
2184
2483
2482
2182
2481
2480
2480
2679
2178
2477
2477
2476
2175
2174
2474
2473
2472
2472
2471
2470
2470
2169
2668
2467
2467
9816
9613
L515
azlz
saga
68I6
oslz
OEIG
IQIE
ssuz
551;
sex;
CQIB
+s1a
£815
§€16
98I6
LSIS
L€I5
BSIS
oOII
6916.
$915
$915
€9I8
99I8
LQIZ
L913
BQIB
69!;
GnIB
LIZ
0LTF
ILI6
6LI5
ELIE
€LI5
ILIS
ILIG
QLIE
9LI6
9LI6
LLIE
BLIB
BLIE
.55
8065
6055
DICE
0166
II63
8I66
6165
SIES
{I56
IIGG
qIGB
9I65
9158
LIEZ
RIZG
SIZE
080‘
6€3$
6955
0’55
1I66
IIZG
SIEG
9+5;
FIB;
iiaa
§7E6
€f55
Qfﬁa
LIGE
L$56
QVEG
6IZK
GIGS
OYZB
I985
I966
5966
€§BZ
QQZG
I§55
qu5
@956
anz
ngé
LQEE
8265
6955
,LOI
@965
6836
+355
5955
£966
9955
L865
L856
seas
enzz
sass
0655
I666
I656
seas
$635
$636
7655
£655
9666
9653
L635
8653
8(55
6665
0086
090'
7596
1666
@385
95§6
9585
LBFE
8585
ﬁbﬁﬁ
6538
0866
1886
IGGZ
6886
£666
£986
TSQE
9€S6
9986
QQQE
L€G6
L855
8€€5
6855
6566
UIﬁé
Ifﬁé
090I
59€8
6996
£986
IQSE
7985
QQSB
9996
99€6
L966
8935
8993
6966
OLQG
ILSZ
ILGE
BLGG
GLSG
GLSZ
VL£6
9L€6
9L93
9L66
LLQZ
BLEE
QLSE
6L€6
0895
0886
IBSK
6893
5826
QVOI
90f8
L095
8096
80f6
GOIG
0l76
0I?6
IIIG
Zlié
GliZ
GIIS
II$6
flfﬁ
QIIG
9Iﬁ6
LITE
LIIE
8173
6I15
GIVE
06$6
[5+5
IZIB
KKIB
Cﬁia
I6I5
$615
08()I
——
"wr
L‘_->
6II6
0313
OBIS
1315
SSIZ
sals
GZIK
931$
IEIZ
QEIZ
69I6
6§I6
09I6
I915
IQIZ
5915
€9I5
GQIZ.
QGIZ
66I6
0056
0053
I065
5065
6066
8065
f066
$066
§065
9055
9055
L056
8058
SLGZ
0968
I866
1853
6886
0598
I586
65GB
SBQB
8656
SO+5
$076
§Of5
QUIZ;
QVIE
9998
LYIG
81f6
9955
6i76
0?f5
0€75
IQIS
BQWG
5§§6
Sqiﬁ
+975
GQIE
§9$6
Sqiﬁ
L§f6
L9$6
8Q15
6995
09?;
09i5
IQIE
6916
69b5
9995
+9?8
QQIZ
QQIE
99i6
LQIZ
onI
‘ov-mmq'n
~
'SWHLIHVDO'I
‘I'HHON
KHNIIJ
qVNQLLanozm
10
HTHVL
V
80?
l¥5
[906
[906
6905
7
.6906
‘
GQDE
$905
rq>a
9905
9905
9%05
L908
8905
8906
6905
OLOB
;
OLOS
;
chz
;
1105
BLOB
9105
vSLOZ =
WLOS
tha
FLUE
9106
L105
'LL06
ﬁL06
I
6L0;
'
6L06
01"!
6605
'
0015
IOIE
lots
,
601$
ﬁOlG
,60l6
inlﬁ
90|6
9015
9015
L016
L016
vsols
60l6
6015
clla
1116
Ill:
5115
$112
€Il5
+1|s
+xla
qlla
9:15
QIIZ
1116
8116
slrz
001!
BLIB
6LI5
0815
0816
1815
6816
6616
8816
#816
+81%
‘QBHZ
9815
9ﬂl6
L816
SBIG
8848
6816
0616
06l3
|6|5
86!;
6616
£6l6
#616
iﬁlé
ﬁﬁlE
9616
96l6
L616
9615
080!
815G
61$6
"666
0565
16G6
5666
8666
GGF5
?563
9585
9585
9886
L666.
L665
xazs
sass
6656
0555
1855
I€$§
ass;
csaz
seas
vzza
9866
@255
wcas
L€65
LGEB
ssaz
0101
@256
0935
0935
ISéb
6955
6965
S965
9956
+963
9963
9958
9966
L956
8955
8966
6958
OLES
OLSG
[£65
5166
ZLBZ
SLGZ
WLBﬁ
fLSK
§L$3
QLEB
LL56
BLZG
6L65
690'
9188.
00€5
0035
IOQG
5096
6085
£056
*Uﬂé
¢0E6
§055
9085
90?;
L066
9053
BOiE
GUCS
OIES
IISB
IIEK
8166
GIGE
Gl€6
ilGﬁ
91€5
9186
QIGB
L166
Llﬁé
Bl€5
Glfﬁ
6|€5
6855
0666
[666
I6Fi
8663
$693'
f6€5
1666
96?‘
9668
9686
L685
86€6
8665
6686
00f6
(Xﬂﬁ
IOY6
60l$
GOfE
1
060i
.
#6Tl
9815
9675
951
3
LEW;
Y
95$6'
65*6
65$;
09$
5
.DﬁiS‘
IG$$
8€%8‘
681$
8QW6
iﬂWS
95?!
MIN
9£V3
LS¢6
9€W5
8696'
6896v
0196
(H05
[113
6+75
£it3
£113
fiié
9115
060i4
»
‘SWHJJIHVDO'I
’IVNOLLHOdOHd
(K)?
$0
STQVL
V
1111st
mama;
~I68$I£J£5ﬁﬂij=ﬁ$$$1ﬁs$$8I
410
~
PllMUM MOBILE.
‘ .
,TABLE
I)!
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
~
112°
2061
2080
2059
2058
2058
2051
2051
2066
2055
2055
2054
2053
2053
2062
2051
2051
2060
2060
2049
2048
2048
2047
2046
23 2046
2045
2044
'51838:;1;:;E:18wm401u+uwu01
2044
2043
2042
2042
2041
1139
2022
2021
2021
2020
2019
2019
2018
2017
2017
2016
2016
2015
2014
2014
2019
2012
2012
2011
2010
2009
2009
2008
2007
2007
2006
2005
2006
2004
2004
2005
114°
1984
1983
1982
1982
1981
1980
1980
1979
1979
1978
1977
1977
1976
1976
1976
1974
1978
1973
1972
1972
1971
1970
1970
1969
1968
1968
1967
1967
1966
1965
1966
116°
1908
1907
1907
1906
1906
1906
1904
1904
1903
1909
1902
1901
1901
1900
1899
1899
1898
1898
1897
1896
1896
1896
1894
1894
1893
1899
1892
1891
1890
1889
117°
1871
1810
1870
1869
1868
1868
1881
1881
1866
1866
1885
1864
1868
1863
1862
1862
1861
1880
1860
1859
1858
118°
1834
1833
1833
1832
1831
1831
1820
1830
1829
1828
1828
1827
1827
1826
1826
1826
1824
1828
1823
1822
1822
1821
1820
1820
1819
1819
115°
1946
1945
1944
1944
1948
1948
1942
1941
1941
1940
1939
1989
1988
1988
1957
1936
1936
1936
1934
1934
1983
1935
1932
1931
1931
1930
1929
1929
1928
1927
1927
119°
1191
1191
1796
1195
1195
1194
1794
1793
1792
1792
1791
1791
1789
1789
1788
1787
1787
1786
1786
1786
1786
1784
1783
1783
11782
178]
1781
1780
1779
120p
1761
1760
1760
1759
1768
1758
1757
1757
1756
1755
1766
1764
1764
1763
1752
1762
1761
1751
1760
1749
1749
1748
1748
1747
1746
1746
1745
1746
1744
1748
1118
ﬁ
121°
1725
1121
1724
1723
1122
1122
1121
1181
4\
TABLE
OF
P_ROPORT10NAL
PRIMUM MOBILE. 411
LOGARITHMS.
114°
1964
1965
1965
1962
1961
1961
1980
1959
1958
1958
1956
I956
1955
1955
1956
1953
1953
1952
1951
1951
1950
1950
1949
1948
1948
1947
1946
1946
116°
1889
1888
1888
1887
1886
1886
1885
1884
1884
1888
1883
1882
1881
1881
1880
1879
1879
1878
1878
1877
1876
1876
1875
1875
1874
1878
1875
1872
1871
1671
1834
1180
1815
1816
1814
1819
1812
1812
1811
1811
1810
1809
1809
1808
1808
1807
1806
1806
1805
1806
1804
1005
1808
1802
1901
1801
1800
1800
1199
1798
1798
1797
119°
171a
1170
1171
1777
1776
1775
1775
1774
1774
1773
1772
1772
1771
1771
1770
1769
1769
1768
1768
1767
1766
1766
1765
1765
1764
1763
1763
1762
1761
1761
112°
2041
2040
2099
2059
2088
2037
2037
2036
2035
2095
2094
2098
2038
2082
2082
2031
2080
2090
2029
2028
2028
2097
2026
2026
2025
2021
2024
2023
2028
2092
1130
2002
2001
2001
2000
2000
1999
1998
1998
1997
1996
1996
1995
1994
'1994
1993
1993
1992
1991
1991
1990
1989
1989
1998
1987
1987
1986
1985
1984
1984
115°
1996
1926
1925
1994
1924
1928
1999
1992
1921
1921
1990
1919
1919
19I8
1918
1917
1916
1916
1915
1914
1914
1915
1912
1912
1911
1911
1910
1909
1909
1908
121°
1706
1706
1705
1705
1689
lﬂillllill illlllkllln
4
TABLE
(I?
PROPDB'I'LONAL LOGAK-ITHMS.
~
1
8%0001610021855351azas:16606616+0wpol
122°
1689.
1668;
1688.
1681.
1681.
1686
1686
1685
1681
1686
1683
_.
1682
1681
1601
1680
1680
1679
161a
1678
1677
1611
1676
1675
1615
1674
1674‘
1615
1675
1612
16714
16831
193°
1651
1665
1662.
16521
1661
1651;
194?
1619
1618
1617
1611
1616.
1616
1615
. 1614
1 1614
_ 1613
l 1615_
__,._I
1512
1612
' lﬁll
1610
1610
ISO?
1609
16081
1601
,1601
1606
1606
1605
1600
1601
11:5?
1585
1582;
1582
1581
1581.
1580,
15.0
1579
1678.
1578v
1677
1577
1576
1575
1616v
1574
1574:
1573
1673
1572
1571.
1571
1570
1670
1569
1569
1568
1567
1367
1566
158!”
1545
127°
1515
1514
1614
1513
1512
151:
1511
[310
1510
1509
1508
1508
1507
1607
1506
1506
1505
150*
1504
1505
1503
1 4502
1502
1501
0500
1500
1199
1199
119a
1496
L511,
128°
.81
1481
1080
1419
1179
1418
1178
1471
1411
1110
1116
1415,
1474
1474
1473
1473
1472
1479
1471
1‘70
1470
1469
11069
1408
1468
1467
1466
1466
1405
1165
1464
1404
129;
1111
1446
1446.
14451
1146
1144
1448
1443
1112
1442
1141
1441
1410
1440
1129
1160
130°
1113
1413
1412
1442
1411
1410
1410?
1409
1409
1405
1408
1407
14-07
1406
1405
1405
1605
1603
1609
'1609
160!
131°1
1380
1319
1319
151
1378
1371
1511
1376
1376
1315
1514
1574
131$
151$
1818
1872
1311
1811
1910
1369
1569
156s
166a
1367
1367
1866
1866
1365
1365
1364
1305
1.
Pill“!!! “0311.8,
TABLE
0!
PROPORTIONAL
413
LOGARITHMS.
1491
1496
1496
1495
1495
1494
1494
1495
1493'
1192
1191
1491
1190
1490
1499
1489
14aa
1497
1497
1486
1486
1495
1485
1484
1483
1499
1409
148!
1481
1481
1463
1463
1462
1461
1460
1160
1459
1459
1458
1457
1457
1456
1436
1455
1455
1454
1454
1453
1452
1452
1451
1451
1450
1450
1449
I449
1448
1 411
1447
1429
1429
1426
1428
1427
1427
1426
1426
-1425
1424
1424
1428
1423
1422
1422
1421
1420
1420
1419
1419
1418
1418
1417
1417
1416
1415
1415
1414
1414
1419
1396
1595
1395
1591
1894
1399
1393
1392
1392
1391
1390
1590
1589
1389
1388
1388
1387
1587
1386
1386
1385
1354
1584
1383
1383
1382
1392
1391
1381
1380
1
122°
1671
1670
1670
1669
1668
1668
1667
1667
1666
1665
1665
1664
1666
1663
1663
l662
1661
1661
1660
1660
l659
[658
1658
1657
1657
1656
1655
1655
1654
1654
193‘
1635
1095
1694
1633
1653
1652
1631
1650
1630
1629
1628
I 628
1627
1627
1626
1626
1625
1624
1694
1623
1623
1622
1621
1F2|
1620
1620
1619
1619
124°
1600
1400
1~99
1529
1598
1598
1597
- 1596i
1596
15951
1595
1594
1593
1593
1692
1592
1591
1591
1590
1589
1589
1588
1588
4587
1586
[585
1585
5585
1584
1581
125°
1566
1566
1565'
1564
1563v
1565
1562
1562'
1561v
1560
1560
1559
1559
1558
1558
1557
1556
1556
1555
1555
1554
1554
1555
1552
1552
1551
1551
1550
1550
1519
126°
1531
1531
1550
1529
1529
1528
1528
1527
1527
1526
1525
1525
1524
1524
1525
1525
1522
1522
1521
1520
1520
1519
2518
1517
127c 128° 129° 130° 131°
1563
1562
1361
136]
1560
1560
1859
1559
1358
1357
1357
1356
1356
1355
1355
1354
185‘
1553
1359
1352
1351
1351
1350
4549
1347
1347
4H PRIMUM M031“.
1\
TABLE
OI
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
$15355=1SQQQm1v*um~ol
u
www
uwmwm
m
o$m<m1w»um~1o$53
\1
' 1132°
1347
1346
1346
1545
1346
1344
1344
13-13
1543
1342
1341
1341
1940
1340
1339
1339
1338
1838
1337
1537
12:6
1335
1935
1354
1334
1338
1333
1332
1332
1331
1331
133°
1814
1314
1318
1501
1298
136a
1217
1217
1216
1216
1215
1215
1214
1214
1213
1213
1212
1211
1211
1210
1210
1209
1209
1208
1208
1207
1207
1206
1206
1205
1205
1204
1203
1203
1202
1201
135°
1249
1249
1248
1218
1247.
1247
1246
1216
1245
1245
1244
1245
1243
1242
1242
1241
1241
1240
1240
1239
1239
1238
1238
1237
1237
1236
1235
1235
1234
1234
1233
137°
1186
1186
118‘
1184
1183
1183
1182
1182
1181
1181
1180
1180
1179
1179
1178
1178
1177
1177
1176
1175
1175
1174
1174
1173
1175
1172
1172
1171
1171
1170
1170
.1143
138°
1154
11:9
1153
1152
1152
1151
1151
1150
1100
1149
1109
1148
1148
1147
1141
1140
1146
1145
1145
1144
1115
139d
1123
1199
1121
1121
1190
1120
1110
141°
1061
1060
1059 -
1059
1058
1058
1057
1057
1056
1056
1055
1055
1054
1054
1063
1058
1052
-1052
1061
1051
1050
1050
1049
1049
1048
1048
1001
1041
1046 ,
now
1045
PRIMUM M081 Ll.
‘.
TABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
136c
1201
1200
1200
1199
1199
use
use
1197
1191
me
1196
1m
1m
1191
1199
1195
1192
1199
1191
1191
1190
1189
1189
1188
1188
1187
1187
1186
1186
137°
1169
1162
1161
1160
‘1160
1159
1159
1158
1158
1157
1157
1156
1156
1155
1154
1154
1125
1124
1121
1123
1123
139°
1106
1106
1105
1105
1106
1104
1103
1103
1102
1102
1101
1101
1100
1100
1099
1099
1098
1098
1097
1097
1096
1096
1095
1095
1094
1095
1093
1092
1092
1091
140°
1075
1075
1014
1074
1013
1079
1072
1072
1071
1061
32
33
34
35
36
37
39
61
42
'43
132°
1330
1329
1329
1328
1328
1327
1327
1326
1326
1325
1325
1324
1323
1323
1322
1322
1321
1321
1320
1320
1319_
1319
1318
1317
1317
1316
1316
1315
1315
1314
133°
1297
1297
1296
1296
1295
1296
1291
1291
1293
1292
1298
1291
1290
1290
1289
1289
1288
1288
1287
1287
1286
1285
1285
1284
1284
1283
1283
1282
1282
135°
1233
1232
1232
1231
1231
1230
1230
1229
1229
1228
1227
1227
1226
1226
1225
1225
1224
1221
1223
1223
1222
1222
1221
1221
'1220
1219
1219
1218
1218
1217
141°
1045
1014
1041
1043
1043
1042
1012
1041
1011
1010
1039
1039
1038
1038
1037
1037
1036
1036
1035
1035
1094
1034
1053
1088
1032
1032
1031
1030
1030
416 PIBMUM “081er
11
TABLE
OF
PROPORTTONAL LOGARITHMS;
18$EZ$1§$EGIIEqum|w+uw~01
88888188882
1430
0999
0999
0998
0998
0997
0997
0996
0996
0995
0995
0994
0994
0993
0993
0992
0992
0991
0991
0990
0990
0989
0999
0988
0988
0957
0987
0986
0986
0985
0985
0984
10936
145°
0939
0939
09381
0998
0987
0937
0936
0935
0935
0931
0934
0938
0935
0932
0982
0951
0081
0900
0930
0929
0929
0928
0928
0927
0927
0926
0926
0926
0925
0924
149°
0821
0820
0820
0819
081‘
0818
0818
0817
0817
0816
0818
0815
0815
0814
01114
0814
0818
0813
0812
0812
0811
0811
0810
0810
0809
0809
0808
0808
0807
0801
0806
150 1511
142°
1030
1029
1029
1028
1028
1027
1027
1026
1020
102
1025
1024
1024
1025
1023
1022
1022
1021
1021
1020
1020
1019
1019
1018
1018
1017
1017
1016
1016
1015
1016
144°
0969
0909
0968
096a
0967
0967
0966
0906
0966
0965
0964
0964
0965
0969
0962
0962
0961
0961
0960
0960
0959
0959
0958
0968
0957
0957
0966
0966
0955
0955
0954
146°
0909
0909
0908
0908
0907
0907
0906
0906
0905
0906
0904
0904
0903
0903
0902
0902
0901
0901
0900
0900
0899
0399
0398
0898
0897
0897
0896
0896
0895
0895
0894
147°
0880
0879
0879
10378
v0878
@877
0877
0876
0876
0875
0876
0874
0874
0873
0873
0872
0872
0371
0871
0870
0870
0869
0869
0668
0858
0667‘
0867
0866
0866
0365
0866
148°
05
0850
-0849
0849
0848
0848
' 084-7
0847
0846
0816
0845
0845
0844
0844
0813
0843
0812
0842
0841
0841
0840
0840
0839
0839
0838
0838
0837
0837
0930
0836
0835
792
0‘91
0791
0790
0;90
0789
0789
0788
0788
0787
0787
0787
0786
0786
0785
0786
,0784
0784
0783
0783
0752
0782
0781
781
0780
0750
0779
0779
0773
0778
0777
0763
0762
0762
0762
0761
0761
0760
0760
0769
0759
0758
0760
0757
0757
0756
0736
0755
0766
0754
0754
0753
0763
0752
0752
0761
0751
760
0750
0750
0749
0789
J‘_‘ _~
rmmuu uom1m
J!
7‘11 13 I. 11
0F
PROPORTIONAL
417
LOGARITHMS.
143:
0984
0983
0983
0982
0982
0961
0981
0980
0980
0079
0979
0978
0978
0977
0977
0976
0976
0975
0975
0974
0974
0978
0973
>0972
0972
0971
0971
0970
0970
0969
144°
0954
0950
0959
0959
090!
0951
095i
0950
0950
0949
0949
0948
0948
0941
0947
0946
0916
0945
0945
0914
0941
004$
0943
0942
0942
0041
0011
0940
0940
0959
145C
0921
0925
0923
0922
0922
0921
0921
0920
0920
0919
0919
0918
0918
0917
0917
0916
0916
0915
0911
0914
0914
0913
0913
0912
0912
0911
09ll
0910
0910
0909
146‘
0894
0899
0893
0892
0892
0891
0891
0890
0090
0889
0889
0888
0388
0887
0887
0886
0886
0885
0885
00884
***T
0884
0883
0883
0883
0882
0882
0881
0881
0880
0880
147°
0864
0864
0869
0863
0802
0862
0851
0661
0060
0860
0859
085
0668
0858
0857
0857
0856
0856
0855
0855
0855
0854
0854
0853
0859
0852
0852
0851
0851
0850
148°
0835
0834
0834
0833
0893
0833
0882
0852
08.3 1
0831
0830
0830
0829
0829
0828
0828
0827
0927
0826
0826
.0825
0825
0824
0824
0829
0823
0822
0822
0821
0821
149°
0809
0805
0805
0804
0804
0808
0803
0009
0802
0801
0801
0801
0800
0800
0199
0199
0798
0798
0797
0797
0796
0796
0194
0795
0794
0:94
0793
0199
0792
0792
150°
0777
0776
0776
0776
0775
0774
0714
0778
0773
0778
0179
0772
0771
10771
0770
(n70
0769
0769
0768
0768
0767
0767
0706
0766
0765
0765
0764
0764
0708
0708
51
151°
0748
0748
0747
0747
0746
0746
0745
0745
0744
0744
0743
0743
0742
0742
0741
0741
0740
0740
0759
0739
0739
0738
0738
07371
0787
0730
; 0786
; 0735
10735
9 0794
1
1
418
A
TABLE
OF
. PROPORTIONAL
I
'raimm MOBILB'
LOGARITHMS.~
0734
0734
0733
0733
0732
0732
0124
0124
0123
0123
, 0122
. Y
w
.
8$g3§18§a$212553515255~13mm401u§um-¢11
155°
0649
156°
0621
0621
0621
0620
0620
0619
0619
0618
0518
0617
0517
0616
0616
0615
0615
0615
0614
0614
0613
0613
0612
0619
0611
0611
0610
0610
0609
0609
0008
0608
0608
157°
0594
0593
0592
0592
0592
0591
0591
0590
0590
0590
0589
0589
0588
0588
0587
0587
0586
0586
0585
0585
0584
0584
0584
0533
0583
0582
0582
0581
0581
0580
0680
158°
0566
0566
0565
0565
0564
0564
0565
0563
0562
0562
0562
0561
0561
0560
0560
0559
.—
0669v
0558
0558
0557
0557
0557
0556
0556
0555
0556
0564
0654
0555
0553
0552
159°
0559
0558'
0558
0537
0557
0536
0556
0556
0535
0535
0556
0554
0533
0553
0532
0582
0531
0581
0531
0530
0530
0529
0529
0528
0528
0597
0527
0526
0526
0526
0525
16(f
0519
0511
0511
0510
0510
0509
0509
0508
0500
0501
0501
0501
0506
0506
0505
0505
0506
0504
0503
0503
0502
0502
0502
0501
0501
0500
0500
0499
0499
0198
0496
152o 153°
0706
0705
0705
0704
0704
0703
0703
0702
0702
0702
0701
154°
0678
0611
0677
0616
0616
0675
_b
0575
0674
0611
0673
0615
0612
0611
0611
0611
0610
_+__
0670
0669
0669
0669
0668
0131
0751
0130
0150
0129
0199
0129
0126
0128
0121
0701
0700
07 0
99
0699
0698
0693
0697
0697
0696
0727
0726
0726
0725
0725
0696
0695
0695
0594
0694
0693
0695
0695
0692
0692
0668
0667
0667
0666
0666
0665
0665
0664
0664
0663
0722
0721
0721
0720
0720
161°
0484
0484
0484
0483
0483
0482
0482
0481
0481
0480
0480
79
0479
0479
0478
0678
0477
0577
0576
0476
0475
0175
0175
0474
0474
0475
0472
0472
0471
0471
9111mm MOBILE. .419
A
TABLE
(II
PROPORTIONAL ":LOGARITHMS.
161'
0471
0470
0470
0469
0469
0468
0468
0467
0467
0466
0466
0466
0465
0465
0464
0464
0465
0465
0462
0462
0462
0461
0461
0460
0460
0459
0459
0458
0458
0458
160c
0491
0497
0497
0496
0496
0495
0195
0494
0494
049a
0495
0498
0499
0192
0491
0491
0490
0490
0489
0409
0409
0488
0488
0487
0187
0486
0480
0485
0485
0484
159°
0525
0524
0524
0523
0523
156°
0601
0607
0606
0606
0606
0605
0604
0604
0605
0608
0602
0602
0002
0601
0601
0600
0600
0599
0599
0598
157°
0519
0519
0519
051a
0510
158°
0559
0551
0551
0551
0550
0550
0549
0549
0548
0548
0547
0547
0546
0546
0546
0545
0545
0544
0544
0543
0543
0542
0542
0541
0541
0541
0540
0540
0539
0599
155°
0635
0654
0654
0654
0633
0633
0632
0639
0651
0631
0630
0630
0629
0629
0628
0628
0627
0627
0627
0626
0696
0625
0625
0694
0624
0623
0623
0622
0622
0621
154°
0663
0662
0662
0662
0661
0661
0660
0660
0659
0659
153°
0691
0691
0690
0690
0689
0689
0688
0688
0687
0687
0686
0686
0685
0685
0685
0684
0684
0685
0683
0682
0682
068i
0681
0680
0680'
0679
0679
0678
0618
0678
152°
0720
0119
0719
0718
0718
0711
0711
0716
0716
0715
0716
0714
0714
0113
0713
0712
0719
'0711
0711
0111
0592
0522
0521
0521
0521
0520
0520
0519
0519
0516
0518
0517
0517
0516
0516
0516
0515
0515
0514
0514
0513
0513
0512
0512
0512
0571
0511
0576
0576
0515
0575
0574
0574
0573
0573
0658
0658
0657
0657
0656
0656
0655
0655
0655
0654
0573
0572
0572
0571
0571
0570
0570
0569
0569
0568
0568
0568
0567
0567
0566
0598
0597
0597
0596
0596
0596
0595
0595
0594
0594
0654
0655
0655
0652
0652
0651
0651
0650
0650
0649
J
490 BBIML'M MOBILI
A
TABLE
OF
PROPORTIONAL L'OGARITHMS;
~
El$333313:55:130wam1w+uw~o1
1649
0404
0404
0405
0403
0402
0402'
0409
0101
0401
0400
0400
0399
0399
0599
0398
0398
0397
0397
0396
0396
0395
0395
0395
0394
0394
0393
0898
0399
0392
0391
0891
I165°
0378
0377
0377
0377
0376
0376
0375
0375
0374
0374
0373
0373
0375
0372
0372
0371
0371
0370
0370
0370
0369
0369
0368
0368
0367
0567
0366
0360
0360
0365
0365
166¢1167°
0369
0551
0361
0350
0826
(825
0395
0324
0350 l0721
034910323
—_
0349
0349
0848
0348
0341
0347
0346
0346
0546
0345
0345
0344
0341
0345
0348
0312
0342
0349
0341
0341
0340
0340
0389
0:139
0339
0393
0322
0329
0322
0321
0321
0320
0320
0319
0519
0519
0318
0318
0317
0317
0316
0316
0316
0915
0315
0314
0314
0313
0313
0313
162°
0468
0457
0457
0456
0456
0405
0155
0451
0454
0454
0453
0455
0452
0452
0451
0451
0450
0450
0450
0449
0149
0448
0443
0447
0417
0446
0446
0446
0445
0445
0444
160°
0431
0430
0190
0480
0429
0499
0428
0428
0427
0427
0426
0426
0426
0425
0425
0424
0724
0423
0423
0422
0422
0429
0421
0421
0420
0420
0419
0419
0418
0418
0418
168°
0300
0299
0299
0298
0298
0997
0297
0997
0296
0290
0295
0995
0294
0294
0294
0295
0295
0292
0202
0291
0291
0291
0990
0290
0289
0289
0288
0288
0288
0287
0287
169°
0274
0273
027a
0273
0272
0272
0971
0271
0970
0270
F270
0269
0909
0268
0268
0907
0267
0207
0266
0966
0265
0205
0264
0901
020+
0263
0963
"969
0902
0261
0261
1170c
0248
0248
0947
0947
0946
0940
0216
0240
0945
0214
0914
0274
0243
0943
0212
0942
0241
0211
0211
0240
0210
0239
0239
0938
0958
0238
0937
0137
0236
0236
0235
171°:
-2,
0922‘
0222‘
02211
0021
0921
0920
0990
0919
0219
0918
0218
0218
0217
0217
0216
0916
0916
0915
0510
0914
PRIMUM MOBILE. -
A
TABLE
or .
421
PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.»
31
39
31
3b
86
38
39
40
41
42
43
4+
45
47
48
49
50
51
162°
0414
0143
0419
0442
0149
0442
0441
0441
0410
0440
0439
0439
0498
043d
0438
0437
0437
0536
0436
0485
0435
0134
0454
0134
0133
0433
0132
013?
0131
0431
163°
0417
0417
0416
0416
0415
0415
0414
0414
0414
0418
0413
0419
0412
0411
0411
0410
0410
0110
0109
0409
0 108
11108
0107
0101
0405
0406
0100
0405
0105
0 04
164°
0591
0:90
0990
0389
0389
0598
0588
0389
0387
0587
0386
0386
0385
0385
0384
0884
0384
0383
0888
0389
0989
0381
0381
0781
0380
0880
0319
0970
0578
0370
0358
0357
0357
0356
0556
0356
0555
0355
0554
0354
0953
0953
0359
0J5?
0359
163°
0236
0206
0285
0985
0285
0284
0281
0983
0288
0289
0982
0232
0081
0981
0280
0280
0219
0279
0279
027a
0978
0277
0271
0276
0216
169°
0261
0260
0260
0250
0259
0958
0958
0258
0957
0257
0256
0756
0255
0255
0255
0954
0954
0253
0255
0259
0952
0259
0751
0251
0950
170°
0935
0235
0234
0234
0233
0235
0832
0739
0239
0231
0931
0280
0980
0230
0229
0999
0228
0928
0927
0297
0297
0926
0226
0225
0295
0294
0924
0294
0293
171°
0210
0909
0909
0908
0708'
oeos
0201
0101
0206
0206
0205
0205
0905
0201_
0201
0903
0203
0909
0909
0203
0201
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
165°
0964
0364
0365
0363
0365
0569
0552
0361
0361
0360
0360
0359
0359
0350
0358
166°
0338
0338
0337
0337
0336
0386
0336
0585
0335
0334
0334
0133
0335
0359
0332
0339
0331
0381
0830
0850
167°
0319
0312
0311
0311
0310
0310
0310
0309
0309
0308
0308
0307
0307
0300
0506
0306
0305
0305
0504
0501
0529
0329
0529
0290
0338
___J
0397
0327
0326
0396
0396
0304
0305
0503
030?
\0302
0301
0301
OJOO
0300
0300
0276
0275
0975
0274
0274
0250
0250
0249
0249
024! 0223]
0201
0900
0900
0900
0199
0199
0198
0198
0197
422'
PROPORTIONAL _ LOGARITHMS. '
numm Mdnlu.
J1
TABLE
()P
~
3|835:31::55:|Ewwqolwouw—c1
172°
0197
0191
0191
0196
0190
0195
0195
0194
0194
019+
0195
0193
0199
0198
0192
0191
0191
0190
0190
0189
0189
0189
0188
0188
0137
0187
_—
0185
173°
0172
0172
0171
0171
0171
0110
0170
0169
0169
0169
0168
0168
0167
0167
0166
0166
0166
0165
0165
0164
0164
0163
0163
0163
0169
0162
0161
0161
0161
0160
0160
174
0147
0141
0146
0146
0146
0145
0145
0144
0146
0143
0113
0143
0142
0142
0141
0161
0140
0139
0139
0139
0138
0138
0137
0157
0136
0136
0136
0155
0135
175°
¢—
0109
0123
0191
0121
0121
0120
0190
0119
0119
0119
0118
0l18
0117
0117
0111
0116
0116
0115
0115
011+
176°
0098
0097
0007
0096
0096
0096
0095
0095
0091
0094
0093
0093
0099
0092
0091
0091
0091
0090
0090
0089
0089
0089
0088
0088
0007
0097
0097
0036
0086
0085
177°
0073
0073
0072
0072
0071
0071
0071
0070
0070
0069
0069
0068
0008
0068
0007
0067
0066
0066
0066
0065
0066
0064
0064
0065
0063
0069
0062
0069
0061
173°
0049
001s
0046
00+:
0011
0046
0040
0010
0045
0040
0044
0044
001+
0043
0013
pm
0012
0012
00-11
0011
0010
0010
0040
0039
0039
0038
0038
0038
0057
0057
0036
179°
0024
0024
0018
0023
0025
0022
0022
0091
0091
0091
0020
00*}
0019
0019
11018
0018
0018
0017
0017
0016
0016
0016
0015
0015
0015
0014
0014
0013
0013
0019
0019
murku 11021111. 423
4.
TABLE
OF
- PROPORTIONAL LOGARITHMS.
" 172° 173° 174° 175° 176° 177° 173° 179¢
31 0184- 0159 0131 0110 0085 0000 0036 0012
32 0184, 0159 0134- 0109 0081- 0060 0035 0011
53 0184 0158 01341 0109 0084- 0060 00433 0011
$4 0185 0158 0138 0108 0084' 0059 0035 0010
3.5 0185 0158 0133 0108 0089 0059 00341 0010
36 0182 ()1 57 01 32 01 07 0083 0058 003-1 0000
S7 0182 0157 0132 0107 0082 00.78 00:95 0009
58 018l 0156 0131 0107 0082 0057 0033 0009
39 0181 0156 0131 0106 0082 0057 0033 0008
4-0 0181 0156 0151 0106 0081 0057 0052 0008
41 0180 0165 0130 0105 0081 0056 0039 0008 J
42 0180 0155 01:10 0105 0080 0056 0031 0007
43 0179 0154- 0129 0105 0080 0055 0031 0007
44 0179 0151 0199 0104 0080 0055 0031 0006
4-5 0119 0163 0129 0104 0079 0055 00:10 0006
46 0178 0155 0128 0105 0079 0054- 0030 0006
'17 0178 0153 0128 0103 0078 0054 0029 0005
48 0177 0152 0127 0103 0078 0058 0029 000.3
49 0177 0152 0121 0102 0077 0053 0099 0004
50 0176 0151 0196 0102 0077 0053 0098 0004
51 0116 0151 0126 0101 0077 0052 0028 000-1
.52 0176 0151 0126 0101 0076 0059 0097 0003
53 0175 0150 0125 0100 0076 0051 01127 0003
54 0175 0150 0195 0100 0071) 0051 00:27 0002
55 0174 0149 0121 0100 0075 0051 0026 0002
56 0174 014-9 0124 0099 007.5 00-50 0026 0009
57 0174 014-8 0124 0099 007-1- 0030 0025 0001
58 0173 0148 0123 0098 0071- 0019 0025 0001
59 0173 0148 0123 0098 0073 004-9 0025 0000
60 0172 0147 0122 0098 0073 00-19 0024 0000
4‘24'
o¢o<n~1¢9§uro>l
Hanna-AH
GUIuhtowi‘
11.
18.
1 9.
20.
‘21.
ihmriu M03112.
2 @able of t1): @ﬁirtp JBﬂtillitir'ﬁ.
-'A-_
. Clizirles the l-‘ifth, Emperor of Gorinllriy . . . . .
. Francis the First, King of France . . . .
. Philip the Third, King ofSpaio . . . . . . . .
. Henry the Fourth, King of H11th . . . . . . 1.
Scbastinn,KingofPorwgiil . . . . . . . . .
. Gusnivus Adolphus; King o'l'Siveden ; . . . . .
. Odoardus, Cardinal Parnese . . . . . . . .
. Rninulius Fnrncse, Dukl: of Parmn . . . . t . .
. John Colum'na,‘ Patriarch of Jerusalem . . . ;' . .
. Ferdinand Gonzaga, Duke of Monlua. . . . .v . .
. Coalnd ihe Second, Great Duke of Tiulcuny . . . .
. Lewis, Cardinal Zachia . i . . . . . . . . .
. Dominick, Cardinal Gymnuacus . . . . . . . .
. Charles, Cardinaniut '. . . .' . .' . . . .
. Antonio, Cérdinal Fathinetti . . . - . . . . .
. Antonio Maria; Cardinal deﬁolrintia . . . . . .
Philip,CardinalSpine.lli. . . . . . . . . . .
Fabricins, Cardinal Verospius . . . . . '. . .
Peter, Cardinal Alduhrandini . . . . . . . .
George, Princ‘e Aldu'brondini . . . . . .
Andrcw,Cardinanerctti . . . . . .
' . Octavius, Cardinal Bandini . t -
. Margotius, Cardinal Lanl'ranchi . . . . . . -
.,
74G!
:31
1:9
140
1.51
1.51
163
170
116
no
181
191
156
210
918
212
157
M2
250
258
$64»
269
274
279
. Cn'rdmal Pimciroli . . . . . . . . . . .
. Dominick Molinus, Senator ofVcnici: . . . . ‘s .
OctavianUbaldine . . . . . . . . . . . .'
‘ . Octavian Vestrius, of Rome . . . ; . . . . .
. Bartholomew Massari, Physician of Donbnig . ¢ .
. Leonora, Duchess of Sl'orlia . . . . . . . . .
. JubnlBaptistCardln . . . . . . . . '. . . ,
990'
30)
AN
#1P”!NDIX
To
PLACIDUS DIE TITUS'S
I . ' i I
iBrtmum mutant.
' Containing the Tﬁgonotnetrical Precepts for computing
the 2Right Ascension, Declination, Semidiurnal and
Nocturnal Arcs, Poles of Position, Sun's Depression
and Secondary Distance,‘ and every other Requisitejbr
obtaining the Arcs ofDirection with much morefacility
and accuracy than by any Collection of Tables hitherto
extant; the whole referred to the Placidian 'Canons,
and illustrated by examples adapted to the work.
=2
\
THE many errors contained in the old astronomical
tables, as well as the great want of new ones adapted to
- the modem discoveries and improvements in Astronomy,
render it, essentially necessary for all who would make
their calculations with any degree of accuracy,_ to per
form thelr operations by the rules of Trigonometry;
which, if they should at ﬁrst appear diﬁicult to_a be
ginner, will more than doubly recompense him for his
labour in their attainment.
In all cases where precision is required, Trigonometry
becomes not only the most exact, but also more concise
3 K I
428 APPENDIX TO
than any Other mode of calculation, for which reason I
have here inserted the Trigonometrical Precepts ne
cessary for calculating the Arcs of Direction, and rc
ferred them to their corresponding Canons in this work.
CANON I.
To ﬁnd the Declination, and, from that, the Longitude,
in the Eeliptic.
If the declination is required, and you have the longi
tude given :
To the sine of 23° 28’ add the sine of the distance
from the nearest equinoctial point, and the sum is the
sine of the declination. I
Example. In the following ﬁgure the 0 is in 7° 25’
of x, which is 22" 35' from ‘Y'. ‘
To the sine of 23° 28' - - - - 9.600“
Add the sine of 22° 35" - - ~ - 9.58436
-Sum is sine of 8° 48' - .- - - 918447
which is the 0’s declination.
If the declination is given, to ﬁnd the longitude cor
responding:
To the arithmetical complement of the sine of 23° 28’,
add the sine of the declination, and the sum is the sine
of the longitude from the nearest equinox, as in the
foregoing example.
The arith. comp. of sine of 23° 28' - 0.39989
Sine of 9’s declination 8° 48' - - 9.18465
Sumis sine of22°35' - - - - 9.58454
_
which is 9’ longitude from "r, or 7° 25' of X.
PRIMUM momma. 427
If the declination of a planet is required with latitude,
the most easy method is as follows :
Example. Let b be in 15° 20' of m, with 2° 29'
north latitude; required his declination.
To the sine of b ’5 long. from 0 45° 20' 9.85110
Add the tangent of 23° 28' - - - 9.63588
Sum is tangent of ﬁrst angle 17° 4‘ - 9.48698
To 17’s lat. 2° 29' add 90°, sum is - 92° 29'
From which subtract the ﬁrst angle 17 4
And there remains the second angle 75 25
~—
Then as cosine ofﬁrst angle l7° 4’, C. A. 0.01956
Is to cosine of second angle 75° 25’ - 9.40104
So is cosine of23° 28' - - - - - 9.96251
1
To sine of F; ’s declination 14° 1' S. - 9.38311
If the longitude and latitude are of the same denomi
nation, viz. both north, or both south, the declination
is of the same denomination also 3 but if the longitude
.and latitude are of different denominations, viz. one
north antl'the other south, then observe whether the
declination found is greater or less than the latitude,
and if the declination is less than the latitude, it is of
the same denomination as the latitude; but, if it is
greater, it is of the same denomination as the sign
wherein it is placed; north, in a northern sign, and
south, in a southern one.
428 "resent m
CANON II.
Toﬁnd‘ the Ascensional liiﬂ'erence.
' Add the tangent of the latitude of the placeto the
tangent of the planet's declination, and the sum is the
sine of the ascensional diﬂ‘erence.
Example. In the same ﬁgure, the latitude of the
birth is 53°, and it’s declination 15° 54'; required his
ascensional difference.
To tangent of latitude 53° 0’~ - - 10.12289
Add tangent of it’s declin.v 15°54’ 9.45463
Sine of. it’s ascen. diff. 22° 13'. - 9,57752
CANON
Toﬁnd the Semidiurnal o'r Nocturnal Arcs.
Having found the ascensional diﬁ'erence by Canon II,
if the planet’s declination is north above the earth, or
south below, add the ascensional difference to 90°, and
the sum will be the are required; but, if the planet's
declination is south above the earth, or north below,
subtract the aseensiorial diﬂ'erence from 90°, and the
diﬁ'erence will be the are required and which, being
divided by 3, will produce the space of the house. i
In the last example, 14’s ascensional difference was
found to be 22° 13’, and as it has north declination,
and is above the earth, 90° must be added, which makes__
112° 13' for his semidiumal arc; and, divided by _3,_
gives 31° 24' forthespace of in house. ' ‘
I
\
pnmuu uonrus. 429
CANON V.
To obtain the Right Ascension. '
The most convenient rule for practice is as follows :
To the arithmetical complement of the cosine of the
planet’s declination, add the cosine of the longitude
from the nearest equinoctial point, and the cosine of
the planet's latitude; the sum, rejecting radius, is the
cosine of the right ascension from the same cquinoc
tial point from which the longitude was taken; and, if
the longitude is in ‘Y', 5, or II, the are found is the
right ascension; if in 25, $1, or am, subtract the are
found from 180°~, for the right ascension ; if it is in a,
m, or 1‘, add the arc to 180°; and, if in W, :x', or
X, subtract the are found from 360° for the right
ascension required. _ '
Example. In the following ﬁgure, 71 is in 20° of
$1,, with 1° 8' of latitude, and his declinatiOn is [5° 54';
required his right ascension.
As cosine of It’s declination 15° 54' C. A. 0.01695
is to cos. of his long. from a 40 0 9.88425
50 is ccsine‘of IL's’latitude l 8 9.99991
To cosine of his right'asccn. 37 13 9.90];
\Vhich, subtracted from 180 0
Remains 142 47 it’s right asccn.
430 APPENDIX 'ro
For-the (D '5 right ascension,
To cosine of Q 's declination 8° 47' C. A. 0.00513
Add cos. ofits long. from m 22 35 9.96535
Sum is cos. on's R. A. 5. 'Y' 20 53 9.97048
'Whieh, subtract from - 360 0 .
Remains 339 7 o 's right ascen.
' Here it is to be observed, that when a planet is in the
beginning of 'Y‘, with great north latitude, or the be
ginning of A, with south, the above method will not
answer the purpose, and you may then proceed thus 3 for
example, Let the ) be in 56’ of 4.2, with 4° 32’ south
latitude ; required her right ascension.
Asradius - - - - - ~ - - 10.00000
To sine of )’s long. from at 0° 56' 8.21189
So is cotangent of )’s latitude 4 32 11.10079
To tangent of ﬁrst are - - 11 36 9.31268
Subt. from obliquity of ecliptic 23 28
Remains second arc ll 52. Now say,
As sine of ﬁrst are - - 11° 36’ C. A. 0.69663
To sine of second arc - ll 52 9.31309
So is tang. of long. from a 0 56 8.21195
To tangent of R. A. from Q 0 57 8.22167
Which, subtract from - 180 0
Remains 179 3 p ’5 right ascen.
-._-_-_
vtumm MOBILE. 431
CANON X.
To describe a Figure of the Heavens.
This may be done two ways besides the common
method by the tables of houses, viz. either by the ta
bles of oblique ascension, or trigonometrically. The
ﬁrst method is taught in almost all astrological authors,
as well as in page 46 of this work, in its proper Canon.
To erect a Figure of the Heavens by the Rules of Trigo
nometry jbr any Latitude.
To the given clock time apply the equation of time,
and you will have the apparent time, which is to be
added to, or subtracted from, the 0’s right ascension
in time, as occasion requires, for the right ascension of
the M. C. in' time, which convert into degrees and mi
nutes, and, to that, add 30° for the oblique ascension
of the eleventh house, 30° more for the oblique ascen
sion of the twelfth, 8tc., till you come to the third.
Then, to obtain the degree of the ecliptic upon the cusp
of the M. Cu to the cosine of the obliquity of the
ecliptic, add the cotangent of the_R. A. of M. C. from
the nearest equinox, and the sum is the cotangent of
its longitude from the same equinoctial point. For the
other houses you must obtain their polar elevation, and
then, to the cosine of the oblique ascension of the
house, add the cotangent of the pole of the house, and
the sum is the cotangent of the ﬁrst arc, to which, if
the oblique ascension of the house is nearest to ‘r, add
the obliquity of the ecliptic 23° 28 ; but if it is nearest
to a, subtract 23° 28’ from it, and the sum or diHer
432 APPENDIX r'o
enee is the second are. Then say, as the cosine 6f the'
second arc is to the cosine of the ﬁrst, so is the tangent
of the oblique ascension of the house to the tangent of
its longitude from m or as, which, if thesecond angle
is less than 90', is to be accounted from the same equi—
noctial point which the oblique ascension was‘reckoned
' from, but, if more than 90°, it is to be accounted from
the contrary equinoctial point. ,3,
Example. In the following ﬁgure, where the R.A.'
of M. C. is 110° 45’. I
To cosine of obliquity of ecliptic 23° 28' 9.96251
Add cotangent of R. A. from 1&6!) 15 9.57849
Sum is cotang. of long. from a 70 50 9.54100
But as 25 0 is 90°, subtract it from 90 O ---
Remains longitude ofM. c. 19 10 of 23.
PatM'Ukt ﬂotilla-t 433
I
1104;; 9
§
¢
J. C. {a N
0
February 25th, 1778, “k
At 9 h. P. M. (A
f,
LATITUDE 53°. "o
a at
.e a
°~
\
P. Lat. Dec. Semi. Arcs. Hor. Times. Rt. Asoen.
r, 2°29'N. 14° s's. 109° 21' N. 18° 14/ N. 223° 31'
14 1 8 N. 15 54 N. 112 13 D. 18 42 D. 142 41
30858. 018N.8940N.14.'>6N. 155
Q o o 8488. 101 50N.16 58N. 339 7
2 1 21 S. 12 965. 101 IN. 17 50 N. ass 22
r e o 98. 11 48$. 115 18X. 19 12 N. 312 52
b s 29 S. 11 538. 115 21 N. 19 13 N. 824. 8
q; 0 0 11538. 64 39D.10 47 D. 11s 55
rm."
434 > aemsmx to
Example. To ﬁnd the ecliptical degree upon the cusp
of the eleventh house :
To the R. A. of M. C. 110° 45’, add 30°, and the
sum is 140° 45', the oblique ascension of the eleventh.
The pole of the eleventh, in latitude 53', is 24° 40';
subtract 140° 45' from l80°, and the remainder is 39"
15’, which is the oblique ascension of the eleventh from
a, then C, I .
To cos. of oblique ascen. of 1 1th 39° l5' 9.88896
Add cotang. of pole of llth 24 40 10.33795
Sum is cotang. of ﬁrst angle 30 40 10.22692
Obliquity of ecliptic subtract 23 28 -—-———~
~—
Remains second angle 7 12
As cosine of second angle 7° 12' C. A. 0.00344
Is to cosine of the ﬁrst angle 30 40 ' 9.93457
So is tang. of obl. as. of llth 39 15 9.91224
To tangent of long. from a 35 19 9.85025
or 24° 41’ of $1 ; and in this manner you may proceed
to ﬁnd the ccliptical degree upon the other houses,
down to the third ; and put the opposite signs and de
grees upon the opposite houses; and, in all cases, be;
fore you attempt to calculate the directions to'any ﬁgure,
it will be necessary to obtain all the requisites placed in
the foregoing table.
rn'mum momma. 435
CANON XII.
To ﬁnd the Elevation Qf the Pole above the Circle of
Position qf either the Planets 0r Houses.
General Rule.—As the semi arc of the planet is to
90' of the equator, so is its distance from the meridian
to the distance of the circle of position from the me
ridian, the. difference 'between -which is the planet's
ascensional difference under its own pole; then, to the
sine of the ascensional difference, add the cotangent of
the planet’s declination, and the sum is the tangent of
the elevation of the pole.
Example. To ﬁnd the pole of '21. in the preceding
ﬁgure, his semidiurnal are being 112° 13’, distance
from the tenth 32° 2', and declination 15° 54'.
As the semidiumal arc of '4 - 112° 13' 2052
Is to 90° of the equator - - 90 0 3010
So is it’s distance from M. C. 32 2 7496
To dist. of circ. ofpos. from M. C. 25 42 1.0506
' 2052
14’s ascensional difference 6 20
8454
To the sine of the asccn. differ. 6" 20‘ 9.04263
Add cotangent of it’s declin. 15' 54 10.54537
\ _-_
Sum is tangent of It’s pole 21 ll ' 9.58800
_____q
436 APPENDIX “It!
Or, thus:
A: the space of ‘4’; house 9 ,- 37° 24' 6824
Is to 30‘ of the equator - - - 30 0 7782
So is It’s distance from M. C. 32 ' 2_ 7496,
“—
To dist. ofcirc. of pos. from M. C, 25 42 1.5278
--.-- 6824
‘Zt’s ascen.diﬂ'erence, as befon 6 2.0. '-‘-—
8454
The poles of the houses may be found by placing the
9 upon the cusp of the house, and ﬁnding his pole in
that situation. _
Carrol“ XV,
'Tlte Use ofthe logarithm.
The logarithms inserted in this work are the common
proportional logarithms, only their denomination is al
tered from minutes to degrees, and from seconds to mi:
notes, in order to render them more familiar to those
not well versed in computations ; the degrees are to be
sought at the top of the table, and the minutes at the
side, and in the common angle is the logarithm required,
and they will answer equally the same for hours and mi
nutes, or minutes and seconds, if you only suppose the
denomination to be changed.
In the last ergample, the space of it’s house is 37° 24';
to ﬁnd the logarithm corresponding to that number, I
look at the head of the table for 37°, and down the side
Piulwu momma. 437
for 24’, opposite to which, and under 37°, is 6824,
the logarithm required. _ t '
those logarithms are used for ﬁnding the pro
portional parts, the second and third numbers are usu_
_ally added together, and the ﬁrst subtracted from the
sum, and the remainder is the logarithm of the fourth
number required ; but the work will be shorter, if you
i take the arithmetical complement of the ﬁrst logarithm,
and then add them all three together, which will pro—
! duce the same result as by adding the two last legat
rithms together, and subtracting the ﬁrst. Example
in Canon XII: The space of 14’s house is 337° 24',
the logarithm of which is 6824, which, subtract from
10.000, and the remainder is 3176, the arithmetical
complement of the logarithm required; then will the
work stand thus:
.As the space of It’s house - 37? 24' C. 3176
Is to 30° of the equator - - 30 0 _ 7782
_So is It’s distance from M. C. 32 2 7496
To the circle of position’s dist. 25 42 8454
By this means you have two lines less in the work
than by the other method.
CANON XVI.
Of equating the Arc of Direction.
There havebcen several modes of equation adopted
in different ages, byyvarious authors, all of whom sup
port their fQVourite method by some plausible argu
438 arrnsnrx TO
ment in its favour;_ but, certainly .none so well en
titled to credence as the Placidian method, for it is not
among the least beauties to be found in the works of
this author, that he is a strict observer and follower of
nature. His method of equation is as old as Nature
herself, and is not fettered with suppositions and human
inventions, but resolves itself into nothing more or less
than one single revolution of the earth upon its axis to
denote one year, or one annual revolution round the 0.
In this way of equating, there are no degrees of human
invention (for the circle might as well have been divided
into 360000 degrees as 360) which require to be
equated by parts of other degrees equally as incompetent
to the purpose ; as is done in the use of Naibod’s mea
sure of time, whilst that of Ptolemy uses a single 360th
part of a circle, but upon what ground we are at a loss
to comprehend. ' I have been led to these remarks, by
observing, that some persons of the present day are ad
vocates for Naibod’s measure of time, although it is
not possible to prove its existence in nature. In the
nativity of George, Prince Aldobrandini, at page 248,
Placidus has demonstrated this measure of time beyond
dispute, and shewn the absurdity of those artiﬁcial me
thods adopted previous to the discovery of that of his
own.
CANON XX.
To obtain the 0’s Depression below the Horizon, and
its secondary Distance upon the Crepusculine Circle.
For the 0's depression, ﬁnd the altitude of his op
stite point, by the following rule.-—Take the R. A. of
Paimm “01111.2. 439
M. C. in time, and the R. A. of @‘s g in time, the
diﬂ'erence between which is the horary angle, with
which, enter table 16 of the Requisite Tables, and talte
out the logarithm rising corresponding thereto; to
which add the cosine of the latitude of the place, and
the Cosine of the 9’s declination, the sum, abating 20
from the index, is the logarithm of a number, which,
subtracted from the natural sine of the 0’s .meridian
altitude, leaves the natural sine of the altitude re
quired.
Example. In the foregoing ﬁgure 5
R. A. of M. C. in time - 7h 23' '
R. A. ofo’s 3 in time - 10 37
Diﬂ'erenceis the horary angle 3 l4
The logarithm rising of which is - - 4.52812
Cosine of latitude of birth - 53° 0' 9.77946
Cosine of 0’s declination - 8 47 9.99487
~___
' 4.30245
Natural number = 20061. '
To 0’s declination - - 8° 47'
Add comp. latitude - - 37 0
9’5 meridian altitude - 45 '47 N. sine 71671
Natural number subtract - - - - - 20061
51610
Natural sine of altitude of 9’s 8 31° 4', or G’s de_
440 APPENDIX 'ro'
pressio'n, which, as it exceeds 18°, the is net in the »
crepusculine but in the obscure space.
For the secondary Distance, proceed asﬁillows :
As the 0 here is not in the crepnsculine circles, we
will take the example of the Q to the n of 8 in the
nativity of Gustavus Adolphus, King of Sweden, page
164—165, for the Qis depression.
R. A. of 0's; in time 5* 48'
R. A. of_M. C. in time 13 30
Horary' angle _- - - 7 42 log. rising 5.15548
Cosine of latitude 590 9.71183
Cosine of Q’ declination 23° 30’ - 1- 9.96239
Sum is logarithm of N°67560 - ¢ - 4.82970
To compl. of lat. 31° 0'
Add 0’s declinat. 23 30
54 80
~~
Merid. alt. of
9’s 8 nat. } - .
sine - -_
Natural number subtract
Natural sine of 7° 58'
9’s depression.
a
81412
67560
13852
~- ex .‘5
rmmm uomu. , 44}
Toﬁnd the secondary Distance Qf the t: Qf 8 .
Co. latitude - 31° 0' sine co. ar. 0.28817
Cox altitude - 82 2
Co.dec. Off; of 3 76 46 sine co. a“. 0.01169
Sum 2)]89 48
Half sum 94 54
‘5—___a
63 54. halfsum —— co.lat.sine9.95329
18 8halfsum—*co.dec.sine9.49346 I
_4-_-_-. —-_-_-_
2)19.74661
. _ 9.87330
which is the sine of - 48° 20’ -- ---
2
doubledisF - ~ - 9640
which, subtract from
the semi. noc. arc
of the place ofthc
351x“ ' ' '
Remains-secondary dist. 16 22
,ns 2v
0’s primary distance in horoscope is 20°48’
Secondary subtract - ~ - - - 16 22
I __.__.
Remains, ortit'e difference - - - 4 26
To be added totheoommon arc of dir. 37 36
.Makes the properitrc - - - - - 42 2
I
3M
442 APPBNDIX to
Canon XXI.
Toﬁnd the Crepusculine and Obscure Arcs.
If you have not tables of arcs and twilight, they may
be found in the following manner:
Eqmnple. Latitude 51° 32', and the 0's declination
15° 9' north; required his crepusculine and obscure
arc.
Complement of latit. 38° 28' sine co. ar. 0.20616
Comp. of 0's declin. 74 51 sine co. ar. 0.01536
0’s zenith distance 108 0 . . . . . .
2)221 19 sum
110 39 halfsum
Half sum —- co. latitude 72° 11’ sine - 9.97865
Half sum -— co. declin. 35 49 sine - 9.76730
_
Sum of the4logarithms - - - - 2)19.96747
_9.98373
Half sum :: sine of 74°25} _
_ Multiplied by - 2 A
Produces 148 50 :: 9" 55’
Which, subtracted from - l2 0
Leaves the beginn. of twilight 2 5
And, subtracted from - - - 4 36 time of 0 rise,
Remains, crepusculine arc - 2 31, or 37° 30’;
_ , '~~—l~,w
PRIMUM nomm. 443
and, if you subtract the crepusculine are from the
semi-nocturnal arc, the remainder is the obscure arc ;
but if the obscure arc is wanted for London only, it
may be obtained from White’s Ephemeris, thus:
Example: May lst, 1814, required the semi-noc
turnal, crepusculine, and obscure arc of the 0 at
London. ' '
Time of 9 set - - - 7' 23'
Subtract from - - - - l2 0
Semi-nocturnal are - - 4 37
Crepusculine are - - - 2 31
“Q
Obscure arc - - .. - 2 6
CANON XXIV.
To ﬁnd the Place of the D’s Zodiacal Parallels in
Longitude and Latitude.
General Rule.--Find the daily change in declination,
and the required change in declination; then say, as
the daily change in declination is to 24 hours, so is'the
required change in declination to the time required to
make that change; to which time, ﬁnd the It’s lon
gitude and latitude, and that will be the place of the
parallel required, to which direct the 3 under her own
pole.
Ewample. Of the r to the parallel of the 0, in
the foregoing ﬁgure, in 8° 47’ south declination.
444
1778.
APPINDIK 10
Pandemonwniows' From . . 10°59‘
28, Ditto - - v 5 46 Subt- req.dec1. 8 47
Daily change 513 Requiredchange212
._- _
Then as 5°‘13' 8.4621
Is to - 24‘ 0. 8751 D’s long. 28th, 27° 0 36 ‘
So is 2°12 1.9128 Ditto, 27th, 12 56%
To - 10” 1.2500. 3’ dinnmotion - l4 4,
the time
.As - 24" 0' 9.1249 To 12°56' )C
Is to 14° '4 1.1071 Add 5 56
$0 is 10k 7 1.2502 -__-‘
18 52 D ’s long. X.
To qt '5. -~Iv-_w- l
For D ’a longitude at that time.
For the D ’a latitude at that tinw.
1) 's latitude 28th, 4'59'
O
“Ditto - - em, 4 as
'Diﬂ'erence of lat. - 0 21
Asv24l' 0' - - 9.1249
Is to 0 21 - - 2.7112
50 i810 7 - - 1.2502
To- 0 9 - - 3.0863
Add 4 38
4 47 n’s latitude.
_=__
2
names: MOBILE. - 445
Therefore, the 9 meets the zodiacal parallel of the o
in 19°52 01’ x, with 4° 47’ south latitude; to which
place the must be directed under her own pole.
Canon XXXVI.
To direct. the Q to the Aspects in Mundo, by the Cre
pusculine and Obscure Arcs.
Exenpliﬁmtion.—-In the nativity of Odoardus, Car
dinal Famese, page 170, the Q to the A of 11. in
mundo, in the crepusculine ares. .
As the noct. horary times of the Q 19° 17' 9.0299
To his distance from the ascend. 20 57 9341
Shis thenoct.horarytimes of it 11 51 ' 1.1816 ,
To his secondary dist. from the 5th 12 53 1.1456
11’s primary distance - - .-.- 34 3 --
Commonarc - - - :- - - 2110
Q’sobliqueascension pole 38 - 284 35,
Place the Q arrives at - ~ - 305 45==15° 20‘5’.
To pole 44, Q’s distance from the aseendant in
25° of t is 20° 57', which gives his depression 13° to
the same depression under 15' of he, the secondary
distance is 20° 46’ ; therefore,
446 APPENDIX 'ro
As the horary times of the Q - 19° 17' 9.0299
To its second. dist. from the asc. 20 46 9379
So is it’s horary times - - - 11 51 1.1816
To his second. dist. from the 5th 12 46 1.1494
11’s primary distance - - - 34 3
Arcofdirectiori - - ~ - - 2117
1n the nativity of Lewis, Cardinal Zaehia, page 196,
the Q to the ~x- of § in mundo, in the obscure arcs.
As the noe. hor. times on 14° 26’ 8.9041
To his dist. from the 5th 13 45 1.1170
So is the me. hor.times of Q 16 0 1.0512
~—
To Q 's sec. dist. from 3d 15 15 1.0723
§ ’s primary distance is 58 51
Common arc is - - - 43 36
Pole 25° obliq. ase. on’s 8 189 35.
23311
Equal to 17° 30' of “1, so that the Q will arrive at
17° 30' of 8 .
As the obscure are of the 0 - 4h 2' 8.3504
Is to his dist. from the 4th - 42° 38 .6255
So is the obs. arc of 17° 30 oft; 2h 46 1.8133
“To, its secondary distance - 29° 15 7892
Space of Q’s‘house subtract - 28 52
Q’s distance from the 5th - 0 23
Paruuu MOBILE. 447
Then, as the horary times of 0 14° 26’ 8.9041
To its distance from the 5th - 0' 23 2-6717
So is horary times of § - - 16 0 1.0512
To § ’s'second. dist. from the 3d 0 26 2.6270
§ ’s primary dist. from the 3d 58 51 —-—-—
Arc of direction - - - - 58 25
Hence it appears, the arc of direction, as now
wrought, exceeds the common are nearly 15°.
CANON XXXIX.
As the secondary directions are of some importance
in ﬁnding the time of the operation of the primary
ones, I shall here ,point out to the young Tyro the me
thod of obtaining the times of the mutual and lunar
aspects, in order that he may know at what period the
secondary directions co-operate with those of the pri
mary; for, in ascertaining the times of thecffects of
directions, it is necessary that we should have recourse
to all the known causes of those eﬂ'ects, and, by com- ‘
paring them together, we shall be able to know at what
time the majority of concurrent causes operate toge
ther to produce the effect ; fo'r we are not to expect the
event to immediately follow the expiration of the arc of
direction, as there may be divers causes exist either to
accelerate or retard the event, as may be seen in seve
ral of these examples. I have known some instances of
persons who have entertained such ideas, and then,
448 Apmmx 'r'o
because they were not realized, have materially altered
the time of birth,‘ or endeavoured to make the event
agree, by adopting another measure of time.
To obtain the Mutual and Ltmar Aspects.
First, get the diurnal motion of each planet whose 6
or aspect you want, and, if they are both direct, or
both retrograde, subtract the lesser from the greater,
and use the difference; but, if one is direct, and the
other retrograde, add both their motions together, and
make use of the sum; and this sum or ditTerence
shall be the diurnal motion of the swifter planet from
the slowen This done, take the distance of the aspect
from noon, which reserve, and the true time is found
by the proportional logarithms ; thus :
September 13th, 1814, [observe the Sun meets the 6
of u D. I
Diurnal motion of 0 ‘ - 0058’
Diurnal motion of it direct 0 l3
__
Diurnal motion of 0 from it 0 45
Distance at noon,
0" 29'
N0w,vsay,
If .. - - 45’ co. ar. 9.3979
give - - 24 hours 875]
what will - 29’ give 7-929
Answer l5"28' >- - 111359
m
rnnwu "manta. 449
Sept. 17th, the Sunmeets the A of I; retrograde.
Diurnal motion of 9 - - 0° 59’ Distance at noon,
Diurnal motion of b Rldd 0 l 22’
Diurnal mot. of 0 from I, A l 0
Now, If - - - 60’ co.'ar. 9.5229
jgive ~ ~ 24 hours 8751v
what shall - 22‘ give 9128
m
Answer 8“ 48 - ~ -- 1.3108
Sept 18th, the Moon meets the Sun's Sewlilejgpect.
Diurnal motion of ) - - 12° 23' Distance of the
Diurnal motion of 0 - - 0 59 * aspect at
noon,
Diurnal mot. of D from Q ll 24 3° 48'
If - - 11° 24' co. arc. 8.8016
give' - - 24 hours 875!
what - 3° 48' ~ - - 1.6755
Answer - 8 hours 1.3522
=2:
Remus on Tm: DIVISION or *rnx HnszNs,
From Pmridgo’l Ephemerh for the Yam 1708 and 1709.
as:
THE division of the heavens, formerly made use of,
was that which is commonly called (but improperly)
3 N
450
the rational way of Regiomontanus, which is false, and
not true to the real and natural motion of the heavens ;
for it is impossible, by dividing the equator into twelve
equal parts, to divide the ecliptic so too; for, in di
viding the ecliptic we shall divide true motion, but, in
dividing the equator, we divide nothing but air. And,
though trigonometry is an excellent art, yet, if your
data are false, your quazsita must be of the same nature.
But, in dividing the heavens true, the sun, $10. lkc.
must have an equal variance in each house between cusp
and cusp, supra a'ut infra terram. Now then, let us
examine how this common division in use doth agree
with this motion. We will take the longest day .in the
year, when the Sun enters Cancer. The semi-diurnal
are of the 0, in the beginning of 25, is 123° 11', the
third, part of that is 41° 3' nearly. Now, let us suppose
the 0 in the very beginning of Cancer on the cusp of
the ascendant, take 41° 3‘ from 123° 11’, and there re
mains 82° 8', the sun's distance from the tenth, when
he comes to the cusp of the twelfth, 9° of Ir being
then on M. C., but, by the rational way (a very im
proper term), when the sun comes to the twelfth house,
there is 2“ of 'r on the M. C., which makes 6° false on
the twelfth house. Again, bring the sun to the ele
venth house, and then he is distant from the M.C.
4l° 3’,,one third of his S. D. are, and 22° of 3 is cul
minant: but, by the rational, there is l7° of u on the
mid-heaven, which makes an error of 50 on the cusp of
the eleventh house. And when the sun comes to the
cusp of the tenth we diﬂ'er 3°, on the eleventh 2°, on
the twelfth 2°, on the second 2‘, and 3° on the thirrh
APPENDIX 1'0
I
PRIMUM mourn. 451
Now, let us try the shortest day also; the Sun in the
beginning of Capricorn, his semi~diurnal arc is 56° 40',
the third of which is 18° 56’, which is also the sun’s
true distance from the ascendant, when he comes to the
cusp of the twelfth house, 24° of Scorpio is then on
the mid-heaven, which, in their irrational way, hath 1°
of 1‘, which is 6° false on the cusp of the twelfth
house. Again, from 37° 52’, take one third more, and
that brings the O to the cusp of the eleventh house; at
which time we have 12° of 1‘ on the tenth, and they
have 18 ; so that they are false 5° on the eleventh house
by true motion: but, besides, when they have 0° of k?
on the tenth, they have but 13° of the same sign on
the. eleventh house, which should be 18; which, by
their rule, will make the semi~diurnal arc of 0° of k?
but 39°, which any one may see is false, if they have
_but ingenuity enough to examine it. And, as for their
trigonometry, they are deceived in their data, for the
same proportions and numbers serve us likewise. As,
for example, to gain the cusp of the eleventh house, 0"
of 10° being on the tenth. As radius to C. S. of 60°
00', so is the C. T. 23° 28' to the C. T. 40° 56'.
Again, as C. S. 64° 26' to_ C. S. of 40' 56’, so is the
T_ 600 ()O' to the T of 71° 45', which gives 18° 15’ of
119 on the cusp of the eleventh house, as, before, it was
by the semi-diurnal arc. Hence, it is plain, that the
division of the heavens, by the equator, is not true,
and they may as well divide the ecliptic by the prime
vertical as that, and much about as true as that is; but,
besides, they may also consider the poles of the houses,
whether 32’, 47°, and 51° 32' do agreein proportion
I
452
to the division of the semi-diurnal are, for 320, the
pole of their eleventh, bear no proportion to 4° and a
half, the difference between the poles of the ascendant
and twelfth house: and, from hence it will appear, to
any reasonable persOn, that their imaginary division is all
false, and not agreeable to the real and natural motion
ti the heavens.
I an not the ﬁrst that hath complained of the moduc
mtionala's, as you may see if you please to look into
Mm'mrs’s Astro. Gall. lib 17, which is all about that;
but, more particularly, in the ﬁfth chapter of that
book. ’Tis true, his objections are not the same with
mine; but his objections were to prove the rationa1
false. I would give you some of his objections, but I
want room to do it here, and therefore refer you to the
author himself, and, in particular, to page 409. Hence
you ought not to be angry with me, but rather thank
me for helping ytm to so easy a remedy for your false
division. There are old errors as well as old truths, and
the former generally rides the fore-horse. However, I
Will go on and give you farther proofs of its falseness,
and also shew the ill consequence of it in practice.
Let us suppose the 0 in 8 deg. of 11 ab. lat. 51° 32',
his semi-diurnal are there is 120° 12’, the third part of
that is 40' 4'; this, taken from 120° 12', leaves its
diﬂlanu from the M, C., and is its distance from the
ascendant when the sun comes to the cusp of the
twelfth house, at which time there is 8° of n on the
twelfth; but, by the rational, there are 15° of n there,
and yet how positive they are to exactness when they
work the cusps to minutes and seconds. Now, let ul
APPENDIX 1'0
saturm MOBILE, 453
see how trigonometry will justify this division by the
diurnal are; 15° of X on M. C. and its R. A. 346° 5'.
Al radius to the cosine 46° 5’, so the cotang. 40° 52"
to the cotang. of 51°17’. Again, as the cosine of
74° 47’ to the cosine of 51° 17', so the tangent of
46° 5’ to the tangent of 68° 0', which gives exactly 8° of
n on the twelfth, as before. I do intreat them, that
endeavour to justify Regiomontanus, to prove theirs by
true motion. He was a learned man, but Bemardus
mmm'det onmia. Again, let us take the G) in 22° of
17, sub. lot. 51" 32’, the M. 'C. 15° of 1‘, to ﬁnd the
cusp of the twelfth house, The semi-diurnal arc of
the 9 there is 59° 48', and one third of it is l9° 56',
which, subtracted from 59“ 48', leaves the distance of
the 0, from the tenth house, 39° 52’, when he comes
to the cusp of the twelfth, at which time there is ex
actly 22° of w on the cusp of the twelfth; but, by the
rational, there is but 15”, which is a very great diﬂer
ence in so small an arc, no less than 7° false; which,
if it be well considered, is certainly the ground of
abundance of errors in directions in nativities, which
you see ought to be rectiﬁed; and the method I take is
by natural mot-inn, not imaginary, as theirs is, dividing
nothing but air. Now let us see here, again, how
trigonometry will justify us in this kind of division. As
radius to the cosine of 46° 5', so is the cotang. of
40° 52' to the cotang. of 5l° 17'. Again, as the cosine
of 74° 47‘ to the cosine of 51° 17', so is the tang. of
46° 5' to the tang. of 68°0‘: this, subtracted from
twelve signs, leaves 22° of It? on the cusp of the twelfth
house, as before ; which, by the division of Regiomona
454 iii-Penman rd
tanus, hath but 15°. I think I need not say any thihé
to expose the falseness of it, for it is very visible in it
self. I now come to shew the mischief of this false di-.
vision in direction, which is the principal thing Iaim at
in what I do on this subject.
Let us suppose the 0 in 22° of 19’, on the cusp of
the twelfth house, by the true division ; and I will di
rect him to the body of I; in 26° in X, southlatitude,
and the arc of direction will be 43° 44'. Now, let us
direct the 0 to the cusp of the twelfth in 22' of he, by
their division, to the body‘of Vb, as before, south lati;
tude, and see what difference there will be: the arc of
direction, in their way, will he 38’ 8', differing, from
the former, 5° 36', which will be almost six years. I
hope they will all own this to be a vast diﬂ'erence, as
well as a horrid error, in a direction.
Again, let us take the Q in 1“ of x,lon the cusp of
the twelfth house, and direct him to the body of It in
11° of ti, by the true division, and the are of direc
tion will be 42° 1'. Let us also work the same direc
tion in their way, and the are will be 36° 20‘, differing
5° and a. half. Take one example more in signs of
long ascension: Let the Q be in l5° of 51, on the
twelfth, as before, and I direct him to 20° of "1, and
the are of direction is 44" 41': then direct it their
way, and the arc is 47° 41’, too great a difference to
he allowed. And so I will leave it with those who
think it worth their while to inquire into the matter,
’ and see what they can say in defence of their division
PRIMUM moans. 455
OBSERVATIONS
ON THE
ﬁatihitp of wears: the cairn.
[See the Plate]
THE positions and directions in this geniture being
compared with the various events which have ~occurred
at different periods of His Majesty's life, will be found
to accord with a degree of accuracy very rarely to be
' seen; and, it is presumed, that their agreement is a suf
ﬁcient proof of the correctness of the ﬁgure.
At the time His Majesty came to the crown, the
ascendant was directed to the * of the Q, and, upon
the Q to the quintile of 5‘ , he was crowned and mar
ried. In 1763, a deﬁnitive treaty of peace was con
cluded at Paris, between His Britannic Majesty, the
King of France, and the King of Spain, and acceded
to by the King of Portugal; at this time, the 0 was
directed to the * of It in mundo ; and, on the ascend
ant to the at: of I; , the American war broke out; the
are is 38' ll'. Then came the Q to the E] of 3 in
mundo, arc 42° 33’, and a war commenced with France.
On the ascendant to the square of 3 , are 44° 49', Lord
Cornwallis surrendered himself, and his whole army, to
General Washington; in consequence 0? which, more
paciﬁc steps were taken by the British parliament; and,
on the ascendant to the A of 11., are 45° 45', a gene—
ral peace ensued. ‘ In the month of August, 1786,
456 arranntx 10
Margaret Nicholson made an attempt upon His Mae
jesty's life, as he was alighting from his carriage at the
gate of St. James's palace; the h was then directed to
the square of 6‘. On the M. C. to the * of a“, St.
Vincent’s victory was obtained; and,- on the 0 to the
A of 3, Duncan's victory and the battle of the Nile.
, When the (i) came to the M. C., the Union with Ire
land was eﬁ'ected ; and, abotit that time, Hatﬁeld made
his attempt to assassinate His Majesty.
When the 0 came to his own at: , the battle of Tra
falgar was gained. His Majesty’s present indisposition
commenced when the ) came to the'mundane parallel
of 8 ; and the various great victories which have re
‘ cently taken place, have been eﬂ'ected under the M. C.
to the quintile of a, and the 0 to the A of 6‘ in
mundo; the latter of which, in this genitttre, is a great
and glorious direction.
The directions for the next, and following years, are
as under :—
Ascendant to 0 of § 1815
Ascendant to u of I,
Ascendant to n of 52
There are also various other important directions in
this geniture, ,whieh accurately correspond with the
events which have happened, and will be worth the
attention of the young Tyro, and serve as a praxis for
calculation.
65mm.
Page 3, Thesis ‘3, far “ noncluse" read “ concause."
Page [52, line 21,f0r “ Q" read" p."
Any other errors which may hay: escaped notice, the mdq l‘ "Yum"
to comet.
A ‘_____“_
a ‘
A TABLE OF HOUSES,
pun-11m MOBILI. @511 -
For she made qf 51 D¢gms 32. Minufm
According to Pronsuv.
Q in m. s Q m 8,. 1
_ -~ 2 ~ - v ii;
1011121113112 5 z 1011 A“.
5111.5};
noon Tan 3 Sum noon. an '
' S
_____ S r 2
H. M11," gr g1G1.M.g1 $1 2 II. Mng gr gr GnM.g g1
0 009-226 421958 1 69091716 3142:,
0 4 1102321 2219 3 11511011111 11521
0 1 7112428 214 45 159 2111911511321
0 11 5122528 4815 52 2 3 2121916 .‘1‘111’1v
0 115 4152529 2115 e 3 11511122118 12‘;
3122 21235 8814111191 38 2 15 6152220 '32 25
"26216281112? 1 12112111: 11111
0 29 1129 H J
0 3312182 2 5912112 2 1:125 '
3 217111231; 1:330:21: 2 34112021125 511$ 1
° “5” 2 2' ﬁiéﬁs 3 231334393; W i‘
‘2 1~ :1 11
3 311222 5 5125115 5 2 wiggiggge xiii;
. . - 1 1 b
g 2'? 322212 8 2 2216262922 221712
“ 11 1 51125115 2 5811265128 61613
1 s 216 4&8 '82
1 6132878 35901 3 296123 471811
1 11121932 1121:: 2 2 13102122112121;
U '
'1 11121 11010 842820 3 143129 3 0 @2117
1 2122 21011 1228912 318225 41 3.2-18
1 2623 21111 522229 3 2221115 2 292219
1 2994 412112 52"”: g a 2310:: g 422331:
' “:2 :2 1:11 1 1 7 1 221-11
@141 ‘~
i 4021 111,14 5 2255 s 3921 5 s 5 122122
1 811.515 1 9265 5 4528695552124
1111211115 514215 3 4122 7106 39212:
1 121021315 31 428 S :1 5130 2‘11 1 99128.95
v1 5 __‘.
o
'
458 APPENDIX TO ~ ‘
A TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees .32 M'mutes,
According to P1011111.
. \
Q in II. 2 0 In "-5
S
E": 101112 111-6611. 2 3 § 101! WM“
noon. D039" m ":2 2 noon. c 2
H. M.grgrgr gr. mwgl' gr 2 H M PLII'I‘ "\E'
_.________. .__ \
551061112212826§600660
36519198 0129708641770
4021012850Q27 692&81
449101399112686155992
4- 114111410 l8 229$ 6 114101 :1
4 12 6121111 321118 6226\1103
416 6191611 4191 6116612114
4917141712 3142: 6911191251
4258151113 1653 6 85814156
4299161814 1645 639915H6
4 2910111914 4-6758 6 411016157
4 981118-1015 318 6 6 48lll1~l6 8
4- 42121921 16 16 e 15 6 62121116 9
41 4613709117 19 BS 6 61151611 9
1 5111212211 4-6I0 95 1 111191810
4. 55l5‘2‘29318 3111108 1 61>201911
6 5916232419 111211 1 9l621201g
5 317149520 113123 1 141129‘2112
5 616252620 4914168 1 1616262219
5 1219252121 51514148 7 9219919914.
5 1620262822 201511 5 7 2790909315
5 2121212925 61616 1 3191962415
5 25'22982923 511116 5 1 3522279516
5 99392911121 371817 5 1 3923282617
6 34240 126 251918 5 1 4624292719
5_ 56'25 1 226 92019 S 1 46 (11119518
5 4326 2 626 5520]?) 1 516 19819
5 4121 a 421 4121 1 5 1 5697 22920
5 5128 4 4‘28 27222: § 3 0198 91:91
5 .1629 1 6‘19 1621,15 3 5}” 41191
6 050 6 630 021245 8 93015 222
' 1 1 "\ ‘
- _ My ,_ _ L, 27,—» -V___.__,_‘ >__. ‘
rum m \0
~ ‘— '>~._~ , \
\ - d‘
141va MOBILI- 459
A TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
According to Front”.
. S .
0 1n 5],. s Q m 111,
2,22” 1011mm“. 2 s 5 101112.110". 2 9'
m. Me A "11: 1.001.222 "1 M
-l_ -_ s ____ __
H. M.gr ‘1- gl’ gr. 1mg! :1 s H. M-gr gr gr gr. m. ‘1 lzr
_-_ __ S ___ __
a 9 o 5 922 381922 5 10 8 0219615 21015120
8 is t 15 $22 22102;, S 10 12 1 3:211 91121
a 17 2 6 3&4- 29124 10 16 2 42711. 491522
a 21 5 7'4 4 48999.) 5 to 20 s 521115 291525
g 95 4 8 525 322325 S 10 24 4 52916 stelh
8 29 5 9 626 192327 5 10 2s 5 052916 41117125
18 as 610 336 585228 8 18 g1sgn|117 2011121,
838711 742129 1 57 is 91927
8 42 8H2 825 23991? 8 IO 39 8 9 218 432098
a 45 913 929 6:; 1 S 10 42 910 219 news
2 221111112 .< 1 :2 11:11.22 3"“
s 58l2|t5ll£ 1mm»: 8 10 511212 421 2521i;
9 21217121551 1510 571:12 522 521 9
3812181235211551} 114145132 4544
9 1.1161315 4.10 2 i 5 i1 3121s 7:: 2:222
9 111172016 1. 1.13 11511 121717 1124 4327 s
9 22182116 5 214 9 S 11 1111211 925 25211 9
9 26.192217 6 4 510 s 11 2019l81026 12910
9 301202318 6 45 511 S 11 2320l9l026 411,111
9 541212119 7 25 012 S 11 2721201127 22 012
9 38222519 11 5 715 11 3122211228 1119
2 41|2sss2o s 41 814 S 11 2+2:11221s2s 40 214
s “121221: 222121 1: 22:21:12 2211:
11 5119621122110 481017 8 11 45222115 0159 517
9 57'27292511 2911111 8 11 4927251.. 1 19 5111
10 “22.22212 912'19 S 11 532112516 2 2 619
10 52912512 5012,20 5 11 66292017 2 .99 720
10 8‘30 220'13 59111|2o s 12 08027117 3 10 321
t S
. i
460 59231115195 76
A TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude qf 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
According to PtoLqu.
Q in e. 2 Q mm.
Time 2 Time
1011 When. 9 3 [0
from ~ w from
noon gem- : WW": noon-rrl
5 .
H M.g1gr gr gr Ingrgr S H. M.g1
12 0 02111 3 15 s21 13 5| 0
12 412616 a 59 922 13 551
12 .1 22912 4 491024 Is 59 2
12 11311120 5 201125214 5 5
121541206 21226 14 14
121651216 451921§ 14115
12 22 6 222 1 24142218 1415 6
12 26 1 325 a 51529 14 19 1
12 29 8 42s a 46l6)( 14 22‘s
12 as 9 52-1 9 2817 2 14 26 91
12 5110 626101016 5 s 14 52101
12 401162510 5219 4 14 24112
12 4412 12611 5520 5 2 14 8812 2
12 4812 62112 18216 14 4216 a
12 5114 92612 59i221 5 14 4614 4
12 5515102612 4523 9 s 14 5015 5
12 5916112914 26'2410 s 14 5116 6
13 8l7l1116 1012511 U 5517 '1“
15 61612115 54.2612 5 15 216 5
1s 10l913116 5912116 s 15 619 9
15 142014 211 222015 15 1020 9
16 162115 318 812916 2 15 1421102115
13 212216 416 54:11 15 11122112616
13 252216 419 :19 116 S 15 22211122911
15 292411 520 26 220 g 15 9624181019'
19 5325111 621 14 421 s 15 612-111 120
13 362619 122 1 522 15 352615 221
15 402120 122 49 62s 5 15‘ 2912116 522
15 44 21 62s 31 125 s 15 4521111 4124
111 462921 924 20111126 5 15 412916 525
19 5230 1025 15‘1021 -s 15 5150 1a 621
. S "
PRIMUM 110311.12. 46!
A TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude Qf|51 Degrees 32 ,Minutea,
According to P'roumr.
. S .
O In 1‘. s (9111 1y.
, 101112.116”. 2 s S 10111 Ascen. 2
’noon.1‘ld' b“ xv: anomwld“ iv. an
H. M.gt g1 gr gr. 111 pp H. M gr gr gr gr. Ill-g1 gr
1:; 61018 621 1026 6 1s Eﬁ'o 61—15
15 66119 798 2128 1 18 2011 2 371918
16 o 22 a oxoqp 9 is 2116 6 192014
16 4 321 9 1 37110 ls 2211 1' 562916
16 a 42210 5 11 511 111 231910 292s16
16 12 52311 4 48 612 18 242015 926W
:6 11]; 6941: 6 27 7:4 8 is 262215 3796l8
6 2 1251 a 5 18 2612516 72819
16 25 82614 9 S 18 272520 552920
16 29 9211611 5 18 29212.1 01121
16 851028 1112 s is $2825 22 122
l6 9811291816 l8 1X28 43 223
:2 12121131; 2 1: a: 2:;
a _ 6
l6 5114 22121 \19 4 5 4 27 626
16 6615 52223 s 19 6 1 6 as 1127
16 5916 42495 19 7 98 as 928
11 411 52521 .19 11 431029
11 am also :8 ghglis 42115
17 1119 727 2x1 101114 4012 1
171690 a s 4 19 121616 3115 2
17 2021 x: 7 IQ 131818 2014 s
11 252210 1 9 19 1411920 616 4
11 502511 511 \- 19 162121 6211 6
11 542412 414 5‘19, 1611323 3311; 6
11 3626115 516 ' 19 162526 1319 7
11 43261 119 z 12 ‘l92726 49.0 s
11 472116 822 19 202626 2221 9
17 6128161024 5120 elves 652210
17 6629171121-20161 ~ 20 2s 1 111239311
18 0301813210 0111 2 20 21 2 2 602112
462 .1PPENDIX TO 2111111111 110111111.
_ A TABLE OF HOUSES,
For the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
According to P2011112.
. S .
9 In A". z 9 1n x.
10‘111211mn. 2 s 2 10'1112 Amen. 2 a
mama-[xv H HE’S noon.xtr8 5 2531
H Mgrgrgvgr 111ng s H Mgrgrgrgr mpg:
20 902442 502112 5 22 505204 45208
20 15 125 5 41415115221211215 25;; s
20 11 221 1 5 57211.: 22 11 2 52 e 25
20 21 322 9 51522214 8 22 20 A 124 1 12 1
20 25 4'29113 112515 5 22 21 1525 a 02 11
20 29 2X13 9 32-19111 3 22 21.121 8 4.24112
20 31 5; 21410 4921517 8 22 51 511022 9 352515
20 33 1.11512 31l8 22 351 910 22514
20 42 a 41812 14 212 2 22 32 1111111 1261
20 41, 9 51111124220 22 42 2 411152211
20 5010 7211.5 22 521 s 22 451015 212 372816
20 511182.216 40 421 s 22 501117 513 222911
20 5812 92411 15 522 2251 1218 414 72918
21 215112018 55 623 S 22 511319 51-1 545119
21 614122819 55 7.14 5 2») 11420 515 35119
21 10151.42120 5a 1325 5 2g 51$: ,3115 1']! 230
2114615322 0 26 2 9 ~ 11 21
21 131115 223 01021 523121724 911 44 522
21 221217 422 521022 2 2; 1518221013 28 42s
21 25 .19 524 581128 20 11 52
21 202020 "125 551229 5 23 2520211219 52 52
21 242122 825 511351 8 23 2121221220 22 625
91 3892231021 4714 1 23 31991: 1421 14 796
21 41l2524112a 4115 2 S 2a 342:: 11521 55 112:
21 4524251529 3615 s 5 25 88% 21022 91 828
21 49252014 01152915 4 S 23 492. 51793 15 9198
21 53962815 1 2217 4 25 4526 2182s 59 9'29
21 57352915 2 1418 5 2 g; 42:; 0192;- 29101
221 as 4195 5a 5202 1111
22 5291319 5 5619 7 5 ‘13 5522 82l26 212 2
22 250 520 4 4595 a s 21 030 92226 421- s
f f7
211 5
Speedin will be published,
A New Traxislation of PTOLEMY’s QUADRQARIH‘E,
with Notes and Observations, by the Editor of ﬁns Edmou of
Placidus de Titus.
D4vis and Dickson, Prmlers,
5!. Manin’s-le-Gnud. London.
