{"name":"Travels Of Cyrus 9799","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1814__ramsay___travels_of_cyrus.pdf","mytitle":"Travels Of Cyrus","mylang":"de"}
THE
TRAVELS OF CYRUS
TO WHICH IS AKKEXEB.
A DISCOURSE
UPON THE
THEOLOGY AND MYTHOLOGY
OF THE
PAGANS,
BY THE
CHEVALIER RAMSAY.
ALBANY :
PRINTED AND SOLD BY PRATT & DOUBLEDAY,
No. 1, Washington-Street.
1814.
-J
r
PREFACE.
. EVER since the first edition of the Travels of Cy-
iy rus, the author has listened with respect and deference
to the judgement ofthe public ; and as several specious
objections have been made to the work, and many real
faults discovered in it, his design in this Preface is to give
the best answer he can to the one, and to acquaint the
reader with what he has done to correct the other.
The most general defect in the former editions, is the
inaction ofXijms, who through the whole course of his
travels has too much of the indolent philosopher, and
too little of the hero, who was one day to be the con
queror ofAsia. The nature of this work not requiring
the action of an epic poem, this fault might have been
excused ; the author has nevertheless submitted to the
judgment of the public, and has made Cyrus act in the
several countries through which he passes ; and this
without departing from the character of a young hero
upon his travels, or shocking the reader with tales and
fictions that have no foundation in antiquity. Besides
this general defect, there are others peculiar to each
book.
In the first, the narration is too hasty and concise.
The reader feels a tender concern for Cassandana, loves
her and fears to lose her ; nevertheless she disapears op
a sudden, and this episode concludes too abruptly. It
has heen likewise observed, that there is no relation be
tween the virtuous love of Cyrus for Cassandana, and
the criminal passion ofStryangeus for Zarina. Nor is
2
vi Preface.
this all ; Cambyses and Mandane consent to their son's
marriage, contrary to all the rules ofgood policy. The
author hopes he has corrected these faults by the addi
tions made to the first book, where he gives a vidw of
the political state of Asia in Cyrus's time.
In the second book the author had not assigned a
proper motive for Cyrus's journey to see Zoroaster ;
the occasion ofit at present is this : the Prince ofPersia
begins to entertain a contempt for religion, and in order
to guard him against this danger, Hystaspes his gov
ernor engages him to make a visit to the Magi. This
representation which Zoroaster makes of the wonders
ofnature, and the amiable ideas he gives him ofthe Di
vinity, satisfy his doubts and settle his mind ; and
while he is thus instructed by philosophical reasoning,
which could not be supposed very agreeable to a young
princess accustomed to the gaieties and diversions ofthe
court of Ecbatana, the author, to amuse Cassandana,
has introduced the wives of the Magi celebrating the
festival of the goddess Mythra ; this description relax
es the mind, serves for an introduction to the theology
ofthe Persians, and makes a proper division of Zoroas
ter's discourse upon natural philosophy and religion.
The third book was all narration, there was no ac
tion ; the episode of Amenophiswas thought interesting
enough, but Cyrus seemed to be forgotten, and was re
membered only by reflection. The author has found
means to make this prince present at the revolutions of
Egypt, without becoming a prisoner with Apries, or
countenancing the usurpation ofAmasis, displaying oc
casionally his military virtues and heroic sentiments.
In the fourth and fifth books the Spartans and Athe
nians were put to a great expense ofmen and ships on
Preface. vii
ly to amuse Cyrus. Virgil kills and maims some of
the Athletae in the games, in order to give a lustre to
his heroes, but the author had exceeded the liberty tak
en by the Latin poet. To correct this fault, he has re
late! in his fourth book the war between the Lacede
monians and Tegeans, mentioned by Herodotus, and
which happened precisely at the time when Cyrus is
supposed to be at Sparta. This episode has given the
author occasion to unfold, in a more extensive manner,
the political state of Sparta, and the different opinions
of Polybius and Plutarch concerning the designs of
Lycurgus in his laws and institutions of government.
In the fifth book a sea-fight is supposed between Meg-
acles and Pisistratus, when the Persian prince went in
to Attica.
In the sixth book Pythagoras shewed clearly that
thought could not be a property of matter ; but it was
necessary some pages should be added, to evince that
we have no reason to believe that extension and thought
are properties, of the same substance ; and that the
system of Spinoza (who is meant by Anaximander) is a
series of loose suppositions without any demonstration.
The author has made a considerable addition to the
seventh book with regard to the religion ofthe Tyrians
and the death ofAdonis. He thought he might take
advantage ofthis beautiful part ofmythology to explain
the ancient tradition common to almost all nations con
cerning a middle god, who was to expiate and destroy
moral evil by his own great sufferings. As the Pheni-
cians lived near Judea, they might possibly have clear
er ideas of religion than other nations, and this bare
possibility may perhaps justify that new episode.—
However, it would be unreasonable to expect that
vifi Preface.
what is put in the mouth of each philosopher relating
tothe religion of his own country, should be found
word for word in the ancients. The author of Cyrus
has only wrought into a connectedsystem the mostbeau
tiful hints ofantiquity, in order to unfold the great prin
ciples of religion, and shew that all ntfions had from
the beginning some idea of those principles more or less
confused.
In the last book, several important reflections are ad
ded to give mora accuracy to the reasonings of Eleazar,
and more strength to the discourse of Daniel -; the lat
ter proves the supernatural establishment of religion by
the only proper method for it, that is to say, by a rela
tion of facts ; but this discourse at present contains
several corroborative hints, to shew that these facts are
incontestible. And lastly, he refers Cyrus to the ac
complishment of the prophecies in his own person, as an
invincible proof ofall the truths he has told him.
The author has made several additions to his Dis
course on the ancient mythology, in order to shew,
that as all the fictions of the Pagans suppose the reali
ty of the three states of the world, so all the Pagan di
vinities may be reduced to one supreme god, the prin
ciple of all beings, a goddess hiswife, sister, or daughter,
and a middle god, who is his son, his representative or
vicegerent. Besides these additions, which are the
most important, there are many others less considera
ble, which the author.thought necessary, to render the
transitions more easy and natural, the narration more
connected, the principles more palpable, and the rea
sonings more conclusive. This is what the author has
done, to correct the real faults in the former editions of
his work. The objections, to which he thinks he can
Preface. ix
give a solid answer, without changing any thing in his
plan, are as follow.
I. To begin with the least important of them, it has
been objected, that the author is a plagiary, and that
hefls in several places transcribed whole pages from
the bishop of Mfaux's universal history, M. de Tour-
reil's historical preface, Dr. Cudworth's intellectual
system, and the life of Hay-Ebn-Yokdan, translated
from the Arabic.
These pretended thefts imposed at first upon those
who were not in a condition to consult the originals ;
but upon a strict examination, the injustice and igno
rance of the critics appeared. The third book, which
treats of ancient Egypt, contains several remarks, of
which there is not the least trace in the bishop of
Meaux's universal history. The author has indeed in
some places followed the translation made by that
prelate of certain passages in Diodorus Siculus, Hero
dotus, and Strabo. But is a man a plagiary, because
in his citations from the ancients he chooses rather to
follow a good translation than a bad one ? So in com
paring M. de Tourreil's preface with the fourth and
fifth books of his work, the reader will find nothing
common to them, except some passages purely histor
ical. The life of Hay-Ebn-Yokdan, translated from
the Arabic into Latin by Dr. Pocock, has no resem
blance with the author's history of Hermes the second,
unless it be the general idea of a savage brought up in
a desert ; there is not the least likeness either in the
matter or in the method ofthe reasoning. The Arabi
an philosopher begins with very refined disquisitions in
anatomy, passes thence to metaphysical discussions,
and concludes with the dreams of Mahometan contem
x Preface.
platives. All the author's reasonings are, on the con
trary, so managed, that they do not exceed the capaci
ty of a common good understanding, who has no other
instructor than nature. He has endeavored so to intro
duce his ideas, as not to transgress the bounds ofprob
ability, to range each truth in its prom- place, to mix
speculation with sentiment, and to raise the soul by ea
sy and natural gradations to the knowledge and love of
the first Being. Lastly, as to Dr. Cudworth, notwith
standing his mistakes and want of method, he had
penetrated farther into the mysteries of antiquity than
the- most part ofcritics ; nevertheless this learned man
says nothing of the three states of the world, which are
the foundation ofall that Cyrus advances upon religion.
Far from being a plagiary, he had not consulted
enough the Doctor's excellent remarks concerning the
three forms ofthe Divinity ; he has made more use of
them in this edition, but has always quoted him or the
original.
II. It is thought that the episodes, in which the auth
or speaks of love, ar related with too much rapidity, so
that the reader has not time enough to be touched,
moved, and transported.
To this it may be answered, that those stories are re
lated by persons who ought not to launch out into love
speeches, tender sentiments, and sprightly images. The
ancients are very sparing in words when the situation
and circumstances speak sufficiently themselves.—
When Homer is to paint the charms of Helen, he does
it by a single stroke ; she goes into the council of the
old men, they fix their eyes upon her, are discomposed,
and suspend their deliberations. When Virgil makes
Dido speak, her words are few but each word is a sen
Preface. xi
timent. The tender passions lose their force and their
delicacy when they become too eloquent. Besides, all
the author's fictions, where love is the object, are in the
two first books, and tend to preserve Cyrus from the fol
lies of youth, by shewing him, not so much the sweets
of love, as the bitter effects of it. As soon as he attains
to a riper age, Cassandana dies, and the hero be
gins his travels. This history simply relates facts as
they happen, without endeavoring after the intrigues,
speeches, and surprising adventures of romance.
HI. Some object that the Travels of Cyrus are not
well imagined, and that any other hero would have suit
ed better with the author's project than the conqueror
of Asia.
Conquerors have generally no other view in extend
ing their dominion, than to satisfy their unbounded am
bition. Cyrus, on the contrary, made use of his victo
ries to procure the happiness of the conquered nations.
The author's intention in making choice of such a prince
was to shew, that courage, great exploits, and military
talents, may indeed excite our admiration, but do not
form the character of a true hero, without the addition
of wisdom, virtue, and noble sentiments. In order to
form such a hero, it was thought allowable to make
him travel; and the silence of Xenophen, who says
nothing in his Cyropaedia of what happened to Cyrus
from his sixteenth to his fortieth year, leaves the author
at liberty to imagine this fiction. The relation of the
prince's travels furnishes an occasion to describe the re
ligion, manners and politics of the several countries
through which he passes. These travels cannot surely
appear unnatural ; a prudent prince like Cambyses, a
father who is supposed to be informed of the oracles
xii Preface.
concerning the fixture greatness of his son, a tributary
king, who knows the danger of sending the young prince
a second time to the court of Ecbatana, ought to be sen
sible that Cyrus, at twenty-five years of age, could not
better employ his time during the interval of a profound
peace, than by travelling into Egypt and Greece. It
was necessary to prepare a prince who was to be one
day the founder and the lawgiver of a mighty empire,
to accomplish his high destiny, by acquiring in each
country some knowledge worthy of his great genius. Is
there any thing strained in all this ? No other hero could
answer the author's intention ; had he made any other
prince travel, he would have lost all advantages he has
drawn from the choice of Cyrus, as the deliverer of the
people of God, as contemporary with the great men
with whom he consults, and as living in an age, the
learning, manners and events, of which could alone be.
suitable to the design of this work.
IV. Those who make no distinction between the plan
of Telemachus and that of Cyrus, continually cry out,
that there is no unity of action in the latter.
Nothing is more unreasonable than to compare two
works of such different natures ; instruction is indeed
the aim of both, but they are not formed upon the same
originals. The author of Telemachus writes a contin
uation of an epic poem. The author of Cyrus fills up
the chasm in a philosophical history ; the one has imiT
tated Homer with success, the other has taken Xeno-
phon for his model. M. de Cambray strews every
where the richest flowers of poesy ; he paints nature in
all her variety, and the objects themselves become visi
ble; he describes all the motions of the heart of man,
and makes us feel them successively ; he renders the
* Preface. - xiii
most sublime truths palpable, and never fatigues the
mind with abstracted ideas ; he passes from beautiful
images to noble sentiments, and finds a shorter way to
the heart than by reasoning ; he walks, he flies, he sighs,
he thunders, he mourns, he rejoices, he assumes all
forms by turns, and never fails to transform us with him.
The author's utmost ambition was to unfold the prin
ciples of his master, without, daring to attempt an imi
tation of his graces ; he chose a subject more propor
tioned to his capacity, a work in which he was to com
pare the philosophical ideas of others, rather than exert
a poetic invention ; he did not pretend to write an epic .
poem. In this kind of fiction the hero should never dis
appear ; it is he whom we listen to, it is he only whom
we love ; the poet grows tiresome when he personates
too much the philosopher : he is to instruct only by
hints, and 'not by long and elaborate discussions.—
The observation of these rules was incompatible with
the author's views ; his design was to shew the gradu
al progress of the mind in the search of truth, to com
pare the religions, governments and laws of different
nations, and to form the legislator, rather than the
conqueror : unity af action is by no means necessary
in a work of this 'nature ; it is sufficient if there be
unity of design. All the author's episodes tend to in
struction, and the instructions arc, as he apprehends,
proportioned to the age of Cyrus. In his youth he is
in danger of being corrupted by vanity, love and irreli-
gion ; Mandane, Hystaspes, and Zoroaster preserve
him from these snares. The history of Apries lays
open to him all the artifices of a perfidious courtier ;
that of the kings of Sparta, the dangers of an excessive
confidence in favorites, or of an unjust diffidence of
3
xiv Preface.
ministers; that of Periander, the fatal mischiefs which
attend despotic power and the dispensing with ancient
laws; that of Pisistratus, the punishment of a base,
false, and crafty policy, and that of Nabuchodonosor,
the dreadful consequences of relapsing into impiety, at-
ter due light and admonition. The prince is at first
instructed by fables, to preserve him from the passions
ofyouth ; he afterwards instructs himself by his own
reflections, by the examples he sees, and by all the ad
ventures he meets with in his travels ; he goes from
country to country, collecting all the treasures of wis
dom, conversing with the great men he finds there, and
performing heroic exploits as occasion presents.
V. Some persons, to discredit the author's work,
have insinuated, that far from doing homage to reli
gion, he degrades it.
He should think himself very unhappy to have pro-
produced a work so contrary to his intentions. All
that he advances upon religion may be reduced to two
principal points. The first is to prove against the A-
theists the existence ofa supreme Deity, who produced
the world by his power and governs it by his wisdom.
To this end Zoroaster unveils to us all the wonders of
nature. Hermes consults the native and genuine ten
dency of the heart, and Pythagoras ascends to first
principles. And thus the author endeavors to unite the
strength of all that sense, natural sentiments, and] rea
son can afford us for the proofofthe first and most im
portant of all truths. Tradition strikes in with philo
sophy. The author has endeavored to shew that the
earliest opinions ofthe most knowing and civilized na
tions come nearer the truth than those of latter ages ;
that the theology of the Orientals is more pure than
Preface. xv
that of the Egyptians, that of the Egyptians less cor
rupted than that of the Greeks, and that of the Greeks
more exalted than that of the Romans ; that the prim
itive system of the world was that of one supreme Dei
ty ; that in order to adapt this idea to the capacity of
the vulgar, the divine attributes were represented by
allegories and hieroglyphics ; that mankind sinking
into matter, quickly forgot the meaning of those sacred
symbols, and fell into idolatry ; that idolatry brought
forth irreligion ; that rash and inconsiderate minds, not
being able to distinguish between principles and the
'abuses ofthem, ran from one excess to another. Such
have been the variations of the human mind, with re
gard to the Deity, in almost all times and all countries.
The author's intention throughout his whole system,
was to shew the wild extravagance of those who main
tain that the doctrines of religion are only the effects of
the ignorance and stupidity of the infant world ; that
the first men, not knowing the phyisical causes, had
recourse to invisible powers to explain the phenomena
ofnature ; and lastly, that politicians refined and im
proved these indigested ideas in order to compose a
system of religion useful and necessary to society.
The second point is to shew, in opposition to the
Deists, that the principal doctrines ofrevealed religion,
concerning the states of innocence, corruption and ren
ovation, are as ancient as the world ; that they were
the foundations of Noah's religion ; that he trans
mitted them to his children ; that these traditions were
thus spread throughout all nations ; that the Pagans
disfigured, degraded, and obscured them by their ab
surd fictions ; and lastly, that these pVimitive truths
have been no where preserved in their purity, except
xvi Preface.
in the true religion. When we see divers nations agree
concerning the beginning, the decline and the re-es
tablishment of a monarchy, the birth, exploits and vir
tues ofthe hero who is the restorer of it, is not this a
sufficient proof of these principal facts, though the cir
cumstances should be related differently, and be even
fabulous ? The author, in unfolding the ancient tradi
tions, has distinguished between fable and truth, philo
sophical hypotheses and doctrines of faith, essence and
form, the spirit and the letter, which ought never to be
separated, but which cannot be confounded without
disguising and dishonoring Chistianity. He hoped
thereby to have given a plan of religion, equally amia
ble and reasonable, and to have shewn that its princi
ples are beautiful, its consequence natural, and its ori
ginal ancient : that it enlightens the mind, comforts
the heart, and establishes the welfare ofsociety.
VI. Those who degrade the wisdom and goodness of
God, under pretence of extolling his power and jus
tice, have thought that Eleazar's discourse too plainly
favored the opinions of Origen concerning the pre-ex-
istence of souls and the restitution of all spirits. One
may venture to say, that whoever makes this objection,
does not understand the plan of the work. Each phi
losopher speaks to Cyrus the language of his own reli
gion and country. The Orientals, Egyptians, Greeks
and Tyrians, all agree in the original purity, present
corruption, and future restoration of mankind ; but
they wrap up these truths in different fables, each ac
cording to the genius of their nation. Eleazar clears
their system from the pagan fictions, but retains in his
own the opinions of his sect. The errors which prevail
at this day resemble those of former times. The mind
Preface. xvii
of man sees but a small number of ideas, reviews them
continually, and thinks them new, only because it ex
presses them differently in different ages. The Magi
in Cyrus's time were fallen into a kind ofatheism, like
that of Spinoza ; Zoroaster, Hermes and Pythagoras
adored one sole Deity, but they were deists ; Eleazar
resembled the Socinians, who were for subjecting reli
gion to philosophy ; Daniel represents a perfect. Chris
tian, and the hero ofthis book a young prince, who be
gan to be corrupted by the maxims of irreligion. In
order to set him right, the different philosophers with
whom he converses successively unfold to him new
truths mixt with errors. Zoroaster confutes the mis
takes of the Magi ; Pythagoras those of Zoroaster ;
Eleazar those of Pythagoras ; Daniel rejects those of
all the others, and his doctrine is the only one which
the author adopts. The order of these conversations
shews the progress of the mind, the matter being so dis
posed, that the Atheist becomes Deist, the Deist Socini-
an, and the Socinian Christian, by a plain and natural
chain of ideas. The great art in instructing is to lead
the mind gradually on, and to take advantage even of
its errors to make it relish truth. That Cyrus might
thus be conducted step by step, it was necessary to in
troduce a person of the religion of the Hebrews, who
should confute by reason all the objections drawn from
reason. Daniel could not act this part. It would not
have become him to solve difficulties by uncertain con
jectures ; the philosopher might prepare the prince,
by bare hypotheses, to submit and to distrust his under
standing ; but it was necessary that the prophet should
disengage Cyrus from all bold speculations, how refin
ed and bright soever they might appear, and lead him
xviii Preface.
to the beliefofa supernatural religion, not by a philo
sophical demonstration of its doctrines, but by proving
them to be divinely revealed. In a word, he should fix
the mind of the young Hero by indisputable facts,
which strike much more forcibly than abstract ideas.
And it is for this reason that the author introduces in
his last book two persons ofvery different characters, a
philosopher and a prophet ; the one employs the pow
ers of reason against incredulity, the other imposes si
lence on all reasonings by a supernatural authority.
This is the only use which the author would make of
the opinions of Origen ; they answered the objections
of the incredulous concerning the beginning and dura
tion of evil ; they shew, that since the weak reason of
the philosophers can find a plausible solution of those
great difficulties, we may well conclude that the infi
nite Wisdom will be able one day to justify his ways,
which are now impenetrable. So long as it is allowa
ble to philosophise, the author exposes the most proba
ble systems and hypotheses ; but when the question is
of faith, he reasons only upon palpable facts, in order
to discover whether God has spoken to his creatures or
not. The moment we are convinced of this, all doubt
ful opinions are lost and absorbed in the depths of the
divine incomprehensibility.
VII. Those who thought the sketches of natural
philosophy in this work misplaced, pretending that the
ancients are represented more knowing than they real
ly were, will be much move shocked to see those philo
sophical descriptions augmented in the present edition.
It is not suprising to hear this objection made by emp
ty, superficial minds, who laugh at the Mosaic history,
while they adopt the Greek fables concerning the ori
Preface. xix
gin ofmankind ; but it is astonishing to hear the same
cavils from those who reverence revealed religion, who
do not believe that man was created originally wild and
savage, that he wandered in the woods and deserts
without knowledge, religion or law, and who have phi
losophy enough to discern that that world could not
come out of the hands of a wise, good and powerful
Creator in its present ignorance, disorder and corrup
tion. These persons might easily be persuaded that
the first men had knowledge of God and nature, which
are lost in these latter ages ; that the sacred writers did
not talk at random when they extolled the profound
learning of the Orientals and Egyptians, even in the
time of Moses ; and lastly that Josephus was not a
visionary, when he said that the Pagans of his time had
an ancient tradition, that Abraham, who was famious in
Asia, communicated many sublime discoveries in natu
ral philosophy to the Chaldeans and Egyptians. The
author, however, has no need of these pretexts to jus
tify the philosophical descriptions in this work. His
aim being to set before the eyes ofa young prince those
elements of science which might help to form his un
derstanding and his heart, he thought those physical
pictures more proper than poetical paintings to give
his pupil a general idea of nature, inspire him with a
taste for philosophy, and awaken his desire of knowl
edge. In pursuing this design, he has taken the lib
erty to depart from strict truth, content himself with
probability, and make anacronisms in natural as well
as civil history.
VIII. Some pretend that the author has but lightly
touched a great many subjects, without going to the
bottom of every one ; that this book is rather a summa
x* Preface.
ry than a work ; that he steps too quiek from one sub>-
ject to another ; and that his style is every where too
laconic, sometimes too metaphysical and abstruse, and
often too void of ornament.
To this it may be answered, that profound reasoning
does not consist in a multiplicity of words : it is per
haps easier to write a great volume than a little one ;
the labor is not the less real, because it is not conceal
ed. It was intended that each intelligent reader
should have the pleasure of drawing the consequences
from the principles, unfolding those first seeds of truth,
cultivating; them, and gathering thence a harvest of
knowledge, of which the author had perhaps no idea.
The author's design was to habituate the mind of a
young prince to judge by principles, discover the con
nexion of essential truths, and unite them under one
view. He says to him upon each subject what is ne
cessary to shew, that all nations had originally the
same fundamental principles, that the duties of reli
gion, morality and good policy flow from the same
source, coospire to the same end, and mutually support
and fortify each other ; and in a word, that all the evil
and human virtues, the laws ofnature and nations, so to
speak, are but consequences of the love of order, which
is the eternal and universal law ofall intelligences. The
author is sensible that he is for from having executed
this vast design, but in the attempt he has made to-
wards it, he has been obliged to avoid all foreign em-
bellisfcfnents, labored connexions, and the ambitious
ornaments of the Greek and Latin poesy.
To speak more clearly : poesy has had the same
fate with philosophy. The Orientals, the Chaldeans,
and above all the Hebrews, painted nature without
Preface. xxi
disguising it, and gave life to every thing without deify
ing it. According to them every thing proceeds
from God, and ought to flow back to him again. All
the visible wonders of nature are faint images of his
greatness, and the innumerable orders of spirits ema
nations from his wisdom. Mankind are all but one
family of that immense republic of intelligences, of
which God is the common Father. Each man is a ray
of light separated from its source, strayed into a corner
of disordered nature, tossed about by the tumultuous
wind of passion, transported from climate to climate
by restless desires, purified by all the misfortunes it
meets with, till it becomes like a subtle vapor reascend-
ing to the superior regions from whence it fell. We
have here a fruitful source of luminous ideas, beautiful
images and sublime expressions, such as we find in the
holy scriptures, and in Milton, who has copied them.
The Egyptians corporalized too much these ideas by
their sensible symbols ; but the Greek poets, and their
imitators, the Roman poets, entirely mangled and de
graded them. By this means a dark veil is drawn
over the whole universe, the source of noble ideas is
dried up, and reason becomes a barren field. The im
agination, destitute of principles, seeks to aupply its
indigence, by creating a new world ; it transforms all
objects, in order to embellish them ; it exalts men in
to gods, and gods into men ; it gives body to spirits,
and spirits to bodies ; its descriptions are florid, but
false, and its marvelous degrades the divine nature ;
the agreeable and the gay take the place of the true
sublime, and of that diviner poetry, which first leads
man into his own heart, and then raises him above him
self. Such is the Greek poesy, always poor in the
i
xxii Preface.
midst of its seeming abundance. Had the author
been able to imitate it, it is what he ought to have
avoided, as improper in a book of principles.
It is not pretended by all that has been said, that
this work, as now given to the public, is free from
faults ; there will no doubt always remain a great
number ; nor would the author have troubled the rea
der with these reflections, but to justify his main de
sign, and explain more fully the plan of his book.
THE
TRAVELS OF CYRUS.
FIRST BOOK.
**********
THE Assyrian empire having been for many ages
extended over all Asia, was at length dismembered,
upon the death of Sardanapalus.* Arbaces governor
of Media entered into a league with Belesis governor
of Babylon, to dethrone that effeminate monarch :
they besieged him in his capital, where the unforunate
emperor, to avoid being made a prisoner, and to hin
der his enemies from becoming masters of his immense
riches, set fire to his palace, threw himself into the
flames, and perished with all his treasures. Ninus,
the true heir, succeeded him in the throne, and reign
ed at Nineveh ; but Arbaces took possession of Media,
with all its dependencies, and Belesis of Chaldea, with
the neighboring territories.*!* And thus was the an
cient empire of the Assiriarits divided into three monar
chies, the capitals of which were Ecbatana, Babylon
and Nineveh. It was not long before the last became
* Diod. Sic. lib. 2. Athen. lib. 12. Herod, lib. 1. Just. lib.
1. c. 3.
t This happened many years before the foundation of Rome, and
the institution of the Olympiads. It was in the time of Ariphon,
9th perpetual Archon of Athens, and almost 900 years before the
Christian era.
24 The Travels of Cyrus.
a prey to the ambitious successors of Belesis ; nor did
those of Arbaces fail to push their conquests : they
brought several ofthe neighboring nations under trib
ute, and particularly Persia ; so that the kings of Me
dia and Babylon became the two great potentates of
the east. Such was the state of Asia when Cyrus was
born : His father Cambyses was king of Persia ; Man-
dane his mother was daughter of Astyages, king of the
Medes.
He was educated from his tender years after the
manner ofancient Persia, where the youth were inured
to hardship and fatigue ; hunting and war were their
only exercises ; but confiding too much in their natur
al courage, they neglected military discipline. The
Persians were hitherto rough, but virtuous. They
were not versed in those arts and sciences which pol
ish the mind and manners : but they were great mas
ters in the sublime science of being content with sim
ple nature, despising death for the love oftheir country,
and flying all pleasures which emasculate the mind,
and enervate the body. Being persuaded that sobrie
ty and exercise prevent almost every disease, they ha
bituate themselves to a rigorous abstinence and per
petual labor.* The lightest indispositions proceeding
from intemperance were thought shameful. The youth
were educated in the public schools, where they were
early instructed in the knowledge of the laws, and ac
customed to hear causes, pass sentence, and mutually
to do one another the most exact justice ; and hereby
they discovered their dispositions, penetration, and ca-
* Xen. Cyr. p. 18. Ed. Oxon. Turpe enim apud Persas
habetur expuere, nasum emungere, &c.
Tlie Travels of Cyrus. 25
pacity for employment in a riper age. The virtues,
which tbeir masters were principally careful to inspire
into them, were the love of truth, humanity, sobriety
and obedience : The two former make us resemble
the gods ; the two latter are necessary to the preser
vation of order. The chief aim of the laws in ancient
Persia was to prevent the corruption of the heart :
and for this reason the Persians punished ingratitude ;+
a vice against which there is no provision made by the
laws of other nations. Whoever was capable of for
getting a benefit, was looked upon as an enemy to so
ciety.
Cyrus had been educated according to these wise
maxims ; and though it was impossible to conceal
from him his rank and birth, yet he was treated with
the same severity as if he had not been heir to a throne ;
he was taught to practise an exact obedience, that he
might afterwards know how to command. When he
arrived at the age of fourteen, Astyages desired to see
him. Mandane could not avoid complying with her
father's orders, but the thought of carrying her son to
the court of Ecbatana exceedingly grieved her.
For the space of three hundred years the kings of
Media had by their bravery extended their conquests ;
and conquests had begot luxury, which is aiways the
forerunner of the fall of empires. Valor, conquests,
luxury, anarchy, this is the fatal circle, and these are
the different periods of the politic life, in almost all
States. The court of Ecbatana was then in its splen
dor ; but this splendor had nothing in it of solidity.
The days were spent in effeminacy, or in flattery ; the
t Cyrop. Xen. p. 10.
26 The Travels of Cyrus.
love ofglory, strict probity, severe honor, were no long
er in esteem ; the pursuit of solid knowledge was
thought to argue a want of taste; agreeable trifling,
fine-spun thoughts, and lively sallies of imagination,
were the only kinds of wit admired there. No sort of
writings pleased, but amusing fictions, where there was
a perpetual succession of events, which surprised by
their variety, without improving the understanding, or
ennobling the heart. Love was without delicacy ;
blind pleasure was its only attractive charm. The wo
men thought themselves despised, when no attempts
were made to ensnare them. That which contributed
to increase this corruption of mind, manners, and senti
ments, was the new doctrine spread every where by the
ancient Magi, that pleasure is the only moving spring
of a man's heart. For as each man placed his pleasure
in what he liked best, this maxim authorised virtue or
vice, according to every one's taste, humor, or com
plexion. This depravity, however, was not then so
universal as it became afterwards. Corruption takes
its rise in courts, and extends itself gradually through
all the parts of a state. Military discipline was yet in
its vigor in Media ; and there were in the provinces
many brave soldiers, who not being infected by the
contagious air of Ecbatana, preserved in themselves all
the virtues, which flourished in the reigns of Dejoces
and Phraotes.
Mandane was thoroughly sensible of all the dangers
to which she should expose young Cyrus, by carrying
him to a court, the manners of which were so different
from those ofthe Persians ; butthewill of Cambyses,and
the orders ofAstyages, obliged her, whether she would
or not, to undertake the journey. She set out, attend-
^v
The Travels of Cyrus. 2TI
ed by a body of the young nobility of Persia, under
the command of Hystaspes, to whom the education of
Cyrus had been committed. The young prince was
seated in a chariot with her, and it was the first time
that he had seen himself distinguished from his com
panions. Mandane was a princess of uncommon vir
tue, a well-cultivated understanding, and a superior
genius. She made it her business, during the jour
ney, to inspire Cyrus with the love of virtue, by enter
taining him with fables according to the eastern man
ner. The minds of young persons are not touched by
abstracted ideas ; they have need of agreeable and fa
miliar images ; they cannot reason, they can only feel
the charms of truth ; and to make it lovely to them, it
must be presented under sensible and beautiful forms.
Mandane had observed that Cyrus was often too
full of himself, and he discovered some tokens of a ri
sing vanity, which might one day obscure his great
qualities. She endeavored to make him sensible of the
deformity of his vice, by relating to him the fable ofSo-
zares, a prince of the ancient empire of Assyria. It
resembles the story ofthe Grecian Narcissus, who per
ished by the foolish love of himself. For thus it is that
the gods punish ; they only give us over to our own
passions, and we immediately commence unhappy.—
She then painted forth the beauty of those noble virtues
which lead to heroism, by the generous forgetting of
one's self, and related to him the fable of the first Her
mes. This was a divine youth, who had wit and beauty
without knowing it, and was unacquainted with hisown
virtue, because he knew not that there were any vices.
The gods, to reward this happy ignorance, endowed
him with such sublime wisdom as made him the oracle
28 The Travels of Cyrus.
of all Egypt. It was thus that Mandane instructed
her son during the journey : one fable gave rise to an
other. The questions of the prince furnished the
queen with new matter to entertain him, and with op
portunities of teaching him the hidden meaning of the
Egyptian fables, the taste for which had prevailed very
much in the east, since the conquests for Sesostris.
As they passed one day by a mountain, consecrated
to the great Oromazes,* Mandane stopped her chari
ot, alighted, and drew near to the sacred place. It
was the day ofa solemn festival, and the high-priest
was already preparing the victim, crowned with flow
ers ; he was ofa sudden seized with the divine spirit,
and interrupting the silence and solemnity of the sac
rifice, cried out in a transport, " I see a young laurel
rising ; it will soon spread its branches over all the
east, the nations will come in crouds to assemble to
gether under its shadow."f Mandane made deep re
flections upon this oracle ; and when she was got up
again into her chariot, said to her son, " The gods
give sometimes these happy presages to animate hero
ic souls : but the event of such predictions, as far as
they are personal, depends upon our virtue : The de
signs of the great Oramazes never fail of their accom-
plishment; but he changes the instrument of them,
when those whom he had chosen render themselves
unworthy of his choice."
As soon as they arrived upon the frontiers of Media,
Astyages with all his court came out to meet them.
He was a prince of great beneficence and humanity,
*The great god of the Persians. Sec the discourse.
t Isaiah's prophecy may be supposed to have been spread abroad
in the east.
The Travels of Cyrus. 29
but his natural goodness made him often too easy, and
his propensity to pleasure had brought the Medes into
the taste of luxury and effeminacy. Cyrus, soon after
his arrival at the court of Ecbatan a, gave proofs of a
wit and judgment far beyond his age. Astyages put
divers questions to him concerning the manners ofthe
Persians, their laws, and their method of educating
youth. He was struck with astonishment at the
sprightly and noble answers of his grandson. Young
Cyrus was the admiration of the whole court, insomuch
that he began to be intoxicated with praise ; a secret
presumption stole into his heart ; he talked a little too
much, and did not hearken enough to others ; he deci
ded with an air of self-sufficiency, and seemed too
fond of it. Mandanc, to remedy this fault, contrived
to set before him his own picture by certain passages of
history ; for she proceeded in his education upon the
same plan of which she had begun it. She related to
him the story of Logis and Sygeus.
" My son, said she, it was formerly the custom at
Thebes in Bceotia to raise to the throne, after the death
of the king, him of all his children who had the best
understanding. When a prince has fine parts, he can
choose able ministers, make proper use of their talents,
and govern those who govern under him ; this is the
great secret of the art of reigning;. Among the kind's
sons there were two who seemed of a superior genius.
The elder, named Logis, loved talking ; the younger,
who was called Sygeus, was a man of few words.—
The first made himself admired by the charms of his
wit ; the second made himself loved by the goodness
of his heart. Logis shewed plainly, even while he en
deavored to conceal it, that he spoke only to shine ; Sy
5
30 The Travels of Cyrus.
geus hearkened readily to others, and looked upon
conversation as a sort of commerce, where each person
ought to furnish something of his own. The one made
the most thorny and perplexed affairs agreeable by the
lively and shining strokes ofwit he intermixed in all he
said ; the other threw light upon the obscurest points,
by reducing every thing to simple principles. Logis
affected mystery without being secret, and his politics
were full of stratagems and artifice ; Sygeus, impene
trable without being false, surmounted all obstacles by
his prudence and courage. The one never displayed
his talents, but to serve his ambition ; the other fre
quently concealed his virtues, that he might taste the
secret pleasure of doing good for its own sake.
" After the king's death, all the people got together
in haste to choose a successor to the throne. Twelve
old men presided at the assembly to correct the judg
ment of the multitude, who seldom fail to be carried
away by prejudice, appearances, or passion. The el
oquent prince made a long, but fine harangue, where
in he set forth all the duties of a king, in order to in
sinuate, that one who was so well acquainted with
them would undoubtedly fulfil them. Prince Sy
geus, in a few words, represented to the assembly the
great hazards in the exercise of sovreign authority, and
confessed an unwillingness to expose himself to them.
It is not, added he, that I would shun any difficulties
or dangers to serve my country, but I am afraid of be
ing found unequal to the task of governing. The old
men decided in favor of Sygeus ; but the young people,
and those of superfficial uuderstandings, took the part
of the elder brother, and raised by degrees a rebellion,
under pretext that injustice had been done to Logis.
The Travels of Cyrus. 31
Troops were levied on both sides ; Sygeus proposed to
yield his right to his brother, in order to hinder the ef
fusion ofthe blood of his countrymen, but his army
would not consent to it.
" The chief men of both parties, seeing the miseries
with which the state was ready to be overwhelmed,
proposed the expedient of letting both the brothers
reign, each a year, by turns. This form ofgovernment
has many inconveniences, but it was preferred before
a civil war, the greatest of all calamities. The two
brothers applauded the proposal for peace, and Logis
ascended the throne. He changed in a little time all
the ancient laws ofthe kingdom ; he was always listen
ing to new projects ; and to have a lively imagination
was sufficient to raise a man to the highest employ
ments. That which seemed excellent in speculation,
could not be executed without difficulty and confusion ;
his ministers, who had no experience, knew not that
precipitate changes, how useful soever they may ap
pear, are always dangerous. The neighboring nations
took advantage from this weak administration to invade
the country ; and had it not been for the prudence and
bravery of Sygeus, all had been lost, and the people
must have submitted to a foreign yoke. His brother's
year being expired, he ascended the throne, gained the
confidence and love of his people, re-established the
ancient laws, and by his wise conduct, even more than
by his victories, drove the enemy out of the country.
From that time Sygeus reigned alone, and it was deci
ded in the supreme council of the old men, that the
king to be chosen for the future should not be the per
son who gave proofs of the quickest parts, but the
.soundest judgement. They were of opinion, that to
32 The Travels of Cyrus.
talk eloquently, or to be fruitful in expedients and strat
agems, were not talents so essential to a good governor,
as a just discernment in choosing, and a steadiness and
courage in pursuing the best and wisest counsels."
Cyrus usually confessed his faults without seeking to
excuse them. He listened to this story with attention,
perceived the design of Mandane in telling it, and re
solved to correct himself.
Soon after this, he gave a notable proof of his gen
ius and courage. He was scarce sixteen years of age
when Merodac, son of Nabuchodonosor, king of Assyria,
assembled some troops, and under pretence of a great
hunting, made a sudden irruption into Media. He
inarched in person with twelve thousand men towards
the first strong place belonging to the Medes, encamped
near them, and from thence sent out detachments eve
ry day to scour and ravage the country. Astyages had
notice of it, and having given the necessary orders for
assembling- his armv. he set out with his son Cvaxares
and young Cyrus, followed only by some troops levied
in haste, to the number of eight thousand men. When
he was come neat the borders of his own country, he
encamped upon a rising ground, from whence he could
discover the plain which the detachments of Merodac
were laying waste. Astyages ordered two of the gen
eral olficers to go and observe the enemy ; Cyrus de
sired leave to accompany them, in order to inform
himself of the situation of the country, the advantageous
posts, and the strength of the Assyrian army. Having
made his observations, he came back, and gave an ex
act account of all he had seen.
The next day Merodac left his camp, and advanced
towards the Modes ; whereupon Astyages assembled
The Travels of Cyrus. 33
a council of war to deliberate upon the motions he
should make. The general officers, fearing* the num
bers ofthe enemy, thought it most advisable to retire,
or at least to suspend all action till the arrival of fresh
troops. Cyrus, who was impatient to engage, heard
their opinions with uneasiness, but observed a pro
found silence, out of respect to the .emperor, and so
many experienced commanders ; at length Astyages
orderedhim to speak. Hethenroseupinthemidstofthe
assembly, and with a noble and modest air, said, " Me-
rodac is now in full march, but he cannot come up
with us without passing between a wood to his right,
and a morass to his left. Let the army advance to at
tack him in that place, where he will not be able to ex
tend his troops and surround us. In the mean time,
I will convey myself, with five hundred young Medes,
through this deep narrow valley, and line the wood.
I have just caused it to be viewed, and find that the
enemy have neglected this post."
He said no more, blushed, and feared to have spo
ken too much. All admired his genius for war at such
tender years ; and Astyages, surprised at his ready
thought and judgment, immediately commanded that
his counsel should be followed. Cyaxares marched
straight to meet the enemy, while Cyrus, accompanied
by Hystaspes, filed off with a body of volunteers, and
without being discovered, seized an angle of the wood.
The prince of the Medes attacked the Assyrians in the
narrowest part of the pass, and while Astyages advan
ced to sustain him, Cyrus sallied out ofthe wood, fell up
on the enemy in Hank, and with his voice animated the
Medes, who all followed him with ardor ; he covered
himself with his shield, pierced into the thickest of the
34 The Travels of Cyrus.
battalions, and spread terror and slaughter wherever
he came. The Assyrians seeing themselves thus at
tacked on all sides, lost courage and fled in disorder.
As soon as the battle was over, generosity and human
ity resumed their empire in the breast of Cyrus. He
was sensibly touched with seeing the field covered with
dead bodies. He took the same care of the wounded
Assyrians as of the Medes, and gave necessary orders
for their cure. They are men, said he, as well as we,
and are no longer enemies when once they are van
quished. The emperor> having taken his precautions
to prevent such irruptions for the future, returned to
Ecbatana.
Mandane, being soon after obliged to leave Media
and return to Cambyses, would have taken her son with
her, but Astyages opposed it. " Why, said he, will
you deprive me of the pleasure of seeing Cyrus? He
will here learn military discipline, which is not yet
known in Persia. I conjure you, by the tenderness
which I have always shewn you, not to refuse me this
consolation." Mandane could not yield her consent
but with great reluctance. She dreaded leaving
her son in the midst of a court which was the seat of
voluptuousness. Being alone with Cyrus, " My son,
said she, Astyages desires that you should cotinue
here with him ; yet I cannot without concern resolve
to leave you. I fear lest the purity of your manners
should be stained, and you should be intoxicated with
foolish passions. The first steps to vice will seem to
be only innocent amusements, a well-bred compliance
with received customs, and a liberty which you must
allow yourself in order to please. Virtue may come
by degrees to be thought too severe an enemy to pleas-
The Travels of Cyrus. 35
ure and society, and even contrary tp nature, because
it opposes inclination ; in a word, you will perhaps
look upon it as a matter ofmere decency, a politic phan
tom, a popular prejudice, from which men ought to get
free, when they can indulge their passions in secret.
Thus you may go from one step to another, till your
understanding be infatuated, your heart led astray, and
you run into all sorts of crimes."
" Leave Hystaspes with me, replied Cyrus ; he will
teach me to avoid all these dangers. Friendship has
long accustomed me to open my heart to him, and he is
not only my counsellor, but the confidant of my weak
ness." Hystaspes was an experienced commander,
who had served many years under Astyages, in his
wars against the Scythians and the king of Lydia, and
had all the virtues of the ancient Persians, together
with the politeness of the Medes. Being a great poli
tician and a great philosopher, a man equally able and
disinterested, he had risen to the first employments of
the State without ambition, and possessed them with
modesty. Mandane being persuaded ofthe virtue and
capacity of Hystaspes, as well as of the advantages her
son might findby living in a court that was no less brave
and knowing in the art of war than polite, obeyed As
tyages with the less regret. She began her journey
soon after, and Cyrus accompanied her some leagues
from Ecbatana. At parting she embraced him with
tenderness. " My son, said she, remember that your
virtue alone can make me happy." The young prince
melted into tears, and could make no answer ; this was
his first separation from her. He followed her with
his eyes, till she was out of sight, and then, returned to
Ecbatana.
36 The Travels of Cyrus.
Cyrus continued at the court of Astyages without be
ing infected by it. This however was not owing to the
precautions of Mandane, the counsels of Hystaspes, or
his own natural virtue, but to love. There was then at
Ecbatana a young princess named Cassandana, related
to Cyrus, and daughter of Pharnaspes, who was of
the race of the Achemenides. Her mother dying,
her father, who was one of the principal Satrapes of
Persia, had sent her to the court of Astyages, to be
there educated under the eye of Ariana queen of the
Medes. Cassandana had all the politeness of that
court without any of its faults ; her wit was equal to
her beauty, and her modesty heightened the charms of
both ; her imagination was lively, but directed by her
judgment ; a justness of thought was as natural to her
as a gracefulness of expression and manner ; • the deli
cate strokes of wit, with which her easy and cheerful
conversation abounded, were unstudied and unaffect
ed ; nor were the acquired accomplishments of her
mind inferior to her natural graces and virtues ; but
she concealed her talents with so much care, or dis
covered thorn with so much reserve, that every thing in
her seemed the work of pure nature. She had enter
tained a particular regard for Cyrus from the first mo
ment she had seen him, but had so carefully hid her
sentiments as not to be suspected.
Proximity of blood gave Cyrus frequent opportuni
ties of seeing her and discoursing with her. Her con
versation polished the manners of the young prince,
who insensibly acquired by it a delicacy, with which,
till then, he had been unacquainted. The beauties and
virtues of the princess produced by degrees in his soul
all the motions of that noble passion, which softens the
The Travels of Cyrus. 37
hearts of heroes without lessening their courage, and
which places the principal charms oflove in the pleas
ure of loving. Precepts, maxims and severe lessons,
do not always preserve the mind from the poisoned
arrows of sensuality. Virtue does not render the heart
insensible, but it often happens that a well-placed
love is the only security from dangerous and criminal
passions.
Cyrus enjoyed, in the conversation of Cassandana,
all the pleasures of the purest friendship, without dar
ing to declare his love ; his youth and his modesty
made him timorous. Nor was it long before he felt all
the pains, disquiets and alarms, which ever attend
upon such passions, even when they are most innocent.
Cassandana's beauty created him a rival ; Cyaxares
felt the power of her charms ; he was much about
the same age with Cyrus, but of a very different
character ; he had wit and courage, but was ofan im
petuous, haughty disposition, and shewed already but
too great a propensity to all the vices common to young
princes. Cassandana could love nothing but virtue,
and her heart had made its choice. She dreaded more
than death a marriage which should naturally have
flattered her ambition. Cyaxares was unacquainted
with the delicacy of love. His high rank augmented
his natural haughtiness, and the manners ofthe Medes
authorised his presumption ; so that he used little pre
caution or cerimony in letting the princess know his
passion for her. He immediately perceived her indif
ference, sought for the cause of it, and was not long
in making the discovery. In all public diversions she
appeared gay and free with him, but was more re
served with Cyrus. The guard she kept upon her-
6
38 The Travels of Cyrus.
self gave her an air of constraint, which was not nat
ural to her. She answered to all the civilities of Cy-
axares with ready and lively strokes of wit ; but when
Cyrus spoke to her, she could hardly conceal her per
plexity.
The prince of Persia, being little skilled in the se
crets of love, did not interpret the conduct of Cassan-
dana in the same manner with his rival. He imagin
ed that she was pleased with the passion of Cyaxares,
and that her eyes were dazzled with the lustre of that
prince's crown. He experienced alternately the un
certainty and hope, the pains and pleasures of a lively
passion. His trouble was too great to be long con
cealed ; Hystaspes perceived it, and said to him : For
some time past I have observed that you are thought
ful and absent ; I believe I see into the cause of it ;
you are in love, Cyrus ; there is no way to vanquish
love, but to crush it in its birth. You are ignorant of
its wiles, and the dangers into which it leads ; at first
it enchants with its sweetness, but in the end it poisons.
It passes in the beginning for nothing more than a
homage paid to merit, and a sentiment worthy of a
tender and generous heart , by little and little the soul
loses its vigor, the understanding is bewildered, and
the intoxication augments ; that which seemed in its
birth an innocent inclination and a lovely passion, be
comes on a sudden all fury and madness. Cyrus,
touched to the quick by these words, hearkened to
them with great uneasiness ; he frequently changed
color, but durst not make any answer. Hystaspes,
knowing that examples make a deeper impression than
reasoning, related to him the history of Zarina and
Stryangeus ; in which we have an instance of the fatal
The Travels of Cyrus. 39
consequences of a violent passion ; and at the same
time of the possibility of surmounting it.
* " In the reign of Cyaxares, son of Phraotcs, said
he, a bloody war was kindled between the Sacae and
the Medes. The troops of Cyaxares were command
ed by his son-in-law Stryangeus, the bravest and most
accomplished prince of all the East. He had married
Rhetea, the emperor's daughter, who had both wit and
beauty, and was of a most amiable temper. Nothing
had hitherto either lessened or disturbed their natural
passion. Zarina, queen of the Sacae, put herself at
the head of her own troops ; for she was not only
adorned with all the charms of her sex, but was mis
tress of the most heroic virtues. Having been educa
ted at the court of Media, she had there contracted an
intimate friendship with Rhetea from her childhood.
For two whole years the war was carried on with equal
advantages on both sides. Truces were often made in
order to treat ofpeace ; and during these cessations of
arms, Zarina and Stryangeus had frequent interviews.
The great qualities which he discovered in this prin
cess, immediately produced esteem ; and under the
cover of that esteem, love soon insinuated itself into
his heart. He no longer endeavored to put an end to
the war, for fear of being separated from Zarina ;
but he made frequent truces, in which love had a great
er share than policy.
" The emperor at length sent express orders to give
.a decisive battle. In the heat of the engagement the
two commanders met each other ; Stryangeus would
have avoided Zarina ; but she, whose heart was yet
* This story has its foundation in antiquity, and is taken front
Nicholus of Dam. Ctesias and Diod. Sic.
40 The Travels of Cyrus.
free from any thing which should restrain her, attacked
him, and obliged him to defend himself. Let us spare,
cried she, the blood of our subjects : it belongs to us
filone to put an end to the war. Love and glory by
turns animated the young hero ; he was equally afraid
of conquering and of being conquered. He frequently
exposed his own life by sparing Zarina's, but at length
found means to gain the victory ; he threw his javelin
with a skilful hand, yet scarce had he let it fly, when
he repented, and would have recalled it : the queen's
horse was wounded ; the horse fell ; and the queen
with him. Stryangeus flew instantly to her relief, and
would have no other fruit of victory, than the pleasures
of saving what he loved. He offered her peace with
all sorts of advantages, preserved her dominions to her,
and, in the name of the emperor, swore a perpetual al
liance with her, at the head of the two armies. After
this he begged permission to wait on her to her capital,
and she consented to it ; but their motives were very
different. Zarina's thoughts were wholly taken up
with the care of testifying her gratitude, while Stryan
geus sought only an opportunity of discovering his
love ; he accompanied the princess in her chariot, and
they were conducted with pomp to Roxanacia. Stry
angeus easily found means to prolong his stay there.
It was necessary that the emperor should ratify by a
treaty the engagements into which his general had enter
ed ; and the prince, by his address, caused several diffi
culties to be started which might make his presence re
quisite at the court of Zarina. He artfully made ad
vantage of these negotiations to let the queen see how
much he had her interest at heart ; he at first conceal
ed his designs, that he might secure her friendship.—
The Travels of Cyrus. 41
Virtuous souls do not easily entertain ditrust; their
very innocence helps to betray them, when they are ig
norant ofthe wiles of love. Zafina was all gratitude,
and her esteem for Stryangeus began by little and lit
tle to grow into affection, without her perceiving it.
She often suffered her sentiments to break forth in the
most conspicuous manner, because she knew not as yet
the source of them ; she tasted the secret sweets of a
young and growing passion, and was unwilling to ex
amine into the motions ofher own heart ; but at length
she discovered that love had too great a share in them ;
she blushed at her weakness, and resolved to get the
better of it ; she pressed the departure of Stryangeus,
but the young Mede could not leave Roxanacia. He
was no longer mindful of glory, he forgot all his affec
tion for Rhetea, he yielded himself up entirely to a
blind passion, sighed, complained, and being no longer
master of himself, declared his love to Zarina in the
strongest and most passionate terms.
" The queen did not like to hide the situation ofher
mind, but shunning all affected evasions and mystery,
answered with a noble frankness, I am indebted to you
for my life and for my crown ; my love is equal to my
gratitude, and my heart is no less touched than your's ;
but I will sooner die than betray my virtue, or suffer
that your glory should receive the least blemish. Con
sider, dear Stryangeus, that you are the husband of
Rhetea, whom I love ; honor and friendship oblige me
equally to sacrifice a passion which would prove my
shame and her misfortune. As she ended these words,
she retired. Stryangeus remained confounded, and in
despair. He shut himself up in his apartment, and
felt by turns all the contrary emotions of an heroic soul
42 Tke Travels of Cyrus.
that is combated, conquered, and insulted by a violent
and tyranical passion. One while he is jealous ofZa-
rina's glory, and resolves to imitate her ; the next mo
ment cruel love sports with his resolutions, and even
with his virtue. In this tempest of passion his under
standing is clouded, his reason forsakes him, and he
resolves to kill himself ; but he first writes these words
to Zarina : " I saved your life, and you take away
mine ; I fall the victim of my love and of your virtue,
being unable to conquer the one or to imitate the other.
Death alone can put an end to my crime, and to my
torment. Farewel forever." He sent this letter to
the queen, who instantly flew to the apartment of the
young Mede ; but he had already plunged the dagger
into his breast ; she saw him weltering in his blood,
fell into a swoon, came again to herself, and by her
tears called back his soul that was ready to take its
flight. He sighed, opened his eyes, beheld the grief of
Zarina, and consented to have his wound taken care
of, which for many days was thought mortal.
" Rhetea, being informed of this tragical adventure,
soon arrived at Roxanacia. Zarina related to her all
that had happened, without concealing either her
weakness or her resistance. Such noble simplicity can
not be understood or relished but by great souls.-—.
Though the war between the Sacae and the Medes had
interrupted the correspondence of these two princess
es, it had not in the least diminished their friendship ;
they knew and esteemed each other too well to be
susceptible of distrust or jealousy. Rhetea always be
held Stryangeus with the eyes of a lover. She la
mented and compassionated his weakness, because
she saw it was involuntary. His wound was at length
The Travels of Cyrus. 43
healed, but he was not cured of his love. Zarina in
vain pressed his departure, but he was not able to tear
himself away from that fatal place ; his passion and
his torments were renewed. Rhetea perceived it, and
fell into a deep sadness ; she suffered all the most cruel
agitations of soul. Grief for being no longer loved by
a man whom alone she loved ; commiseration for a
husband given up to despair ; esteem for a rival whom
she could not hate. She saw herself every day be
tween a lover hurried away by his passion, and a vir
tuous friend whom she admired ; and that her life was
the misfortune of both. How cruel a situation for a
generous and tender heart ! The more she concealed
her pain, the more she was oppressed by it. She sunk
at last under the weight, and fell dangerously sick.
One day when she was alone with Zarina and Stryan-
geus, she dropt these words ; " I am dying, but I die
content, since my death will make you happy."
" Zarina melted into tears at these words, and with
drew. These words pierced the heart of Stryangeus.
He looked upon Rhetea, and beheld her pale, languish
ing, and ready to expire with grief and love. The
princess' eyes were fixed and immoveably fastened
upon the prince ; his own at length were opened. He
was like a man who awakes from a profound sleep, or
comes out of a delirium, where nothing had appeared
in its natural shape. He had seen Rhetea every day,
without perceiving the cruel condition to which he had
reduced her ; he saw her at present with other eyes ;
it awakened all his virtue, and kindled again all his
former tenderness. He acknowledged his error, threw
himself at her feet, and, embracing her, repeated of
ten these words, interrupted by tears and sighs:
44 The Travels of Cyrus.
" Live, my dear Rhetea, live to give me the pleasure
of repairing my fault ; I am now acquainted with all
the value of your heart." These words brought her
again to life ; her beauty returned by degrees with
her strength. She departed soon after with Stryan-
geus for Ecbatana, and from that time nothing ever
disturbed their union.
" You see by this, continued Hystaspes, to what ex
tremities love may reduce the greatest heroes : you see
likewise the power of resolution and courage in con
quering the most violent passions, when we have a
sincere desire to get the victory. I should fear nothing
for you, if there were at this court such persons as Za-
rina ; but heroic virtue like her's would now be
thought romantic, or rather a savage insensibility.—
The manners of the Medes are very much changed.
Cassandana, continued he with design, is the only
person I see here who is worthy of your affection."—
He was going on, when Cyrus interrupting him cried
out, "You have named the dear object of my heart ;
Cassandana has rendered me insensible to every thing
that could have seduced my virtue ; I love her, but I
am not loved." The prince stopped here, fearing to
have said too much ; he looked upon Hystaspes to see
whether he approved of his love.
Hystaspes, overjoyed to have discovered the prince's
passion by this innocent artifice, resolved istantly to
employ all his endeavors to cure him of it, but yet to
manage him with delicacy and tenderness ; he dissem
bled his concern, and, embracing the young prince,
with a serene countenance said to him, " Cassandana's
beauty is the least of her charms, her heart is as pure
as her understanding is bright. I cannot however ap
The Travels of Cyrus. 45
prove of your passion ; you know that Cambyses has
other views for you. He designs you for the daughter
of Croesus, one of the most potent monarchs ofthe East.
It is by this marriage that you must begin to verify
the oracles ; Persia is a tributary province, too incon
siderable to be the center of a vast empire, and the
scene of those great exploits to which the gods have
destined you ; do not oppose their decrees. You can
not without a crime give your heart to any other but
her whom Cambyses has chosen for you ; remember
the story of Stryangeus, and the excesses to which that
hero was hurried by his love." This discourse threw
Cyrus back into his former sadness ; but out of friend
ship for Hystaspes, he concealed his pains without dis
guising his sentiments. " If the great Oromazes, said
he with a submissive tone of voice, decrees me for the
daughter of the king of Lydia, he will doubtless give
me the strength to get the mastery of my passion. But,
alas ! can you compare my love for Cassandana with
that of Stryangeus for Zarina?" That prince's love,
answered Hystaspes, was criminal, but yours cannot
be innocent, ifit be not approved of by Cambyses. He
durst not say any more, well knowing that opposition
for the most part serves only to irritate the minds of
young persons. He contented himself with observing
for some days all the prince's motions, and at length
concluded that the only means to cure him of his pas
sion was to separate him from the object of it. He
informed Cambyses of Cyrus's affection for Cassanda
na, an d as the king of Persia had other views for his
son, which suited better with his politics, he recalled
him into Persia.
The young prince received his father's orders with
a concern that was suitable to the violence of his love.
7
46 The Travels of Cyrus.
Cassandana, on the other hand, could not support the
thought of a separation, which left her wholly exposed
to the importunities of Cyaxares, and she gave herself
up to grief ; even love itself obliged her to fly what
she loved ; she was afraid of contributing to the mis
fortunes of Cyrus, by approving of his passion. But
while she carefully avoided him, he sought for her
with eagerness ; and decency at length required she
should see him to receive his last adieu. The prince
was no longer able to hide his sentiments ; he discov
ered at the same time both the violence of his passion
and the excess of his affection. Some tears dropped
from the princess' eyes, and in spite of her reserved-
ness, these words escaped her : " Ah, gods, why have
you given me a heart capable of tenderness, if you for
bid me to love V She blushed as she uttered these
words, and retired. Cyrus durst not follow her ; the
joy offinding that he was loved by Cassandana, and
the fear of loosing her, excited such a tempest of con
trary motions in his soul, as exceedingly distressed
him. After along struggle and violent agitations of
mind, he at length flattered himself, that when he ar
rived at the court of Persia, he might be able to move
Cambyses, by the help of Mandane, and this hope hin
dered him from sinking under the weight of so cruel a
separation.
The young nobility would accompany him to the
frontiers of Media. As he went from Ecbatana, he of
ten stopped to look back upon the place where he had
left Cassandana ; at length he lost sight of that stately
city, and continued his way. When he came to the
frontiers where the young Medes were to leave him, he
made them all rich presents, but with admirable dis
The Travels of Cyrus. 47
ti notion, preferring merit and service to birth and rank.
During the rest of the journey the hope of engaging
Mandane in the interest ofhis love seemed entirely to
calm his mind, and diffused an air of contentment up
on his face which he had not before. His return into
Persia was celebrated by public feastings and rejoic
ings ; and when these were over, he left his father's
palace, and retired to the place allotted for the educa
tion of the young Persian nobility, where he continued
till he was eighteen.
The young Satrapes, seeing Cyrus returned, said
one to another : He has been living delicately at the
court of Media, he will never be able to accustom
himself to our simple and laborious manner of life.—
But when they saw that he was content with their or
dinary diet, that he was more temperate and abstem
ious than they themselves, and that he shewed more
skill and courage in all his exercises, they were struck
with admiration, and confessed, that he had yet a j list
er title to the throne by his merit than by his birth.
Some days after his return, Cambyses sent for him,
and seeming ignorant of his passion for Cassandana,
imparted to him the design he had of speedily marrying
him to Candaules, daughter ofthe kingof Lydia. Cyrus
made no answer, but by a deep sigh and a respectful
silence ; but the moment he left the king he ran to the
queen's apartment to disclose to her the secret' of his
heart. " I have followed your counsels, said he, at the
court of Ecbatana ; I have lived insensible to all the
most enticing charms of voluptuousness ; but I owe
nothing to myself on this account; I owe all to the
daughter of Pharnaspes ; I love her, and this love has
preserved me from all the errors and extravagancies of
48 The Travels of Cyrus.
youth. Do not think that my attachment to her is on
ly a transient liking, which may soon be over ; I have
never loved any other than Cassandana, and I feel
that I never can love but her alone. Will you suffer
the happiness of my life to be made a sacrifice to po
litical views ? It is pretended that my marriage with
the daughter of Croesus is the first step I must take
to enlarge my empire.; but surely the gods can make
a conqueror without making me miserable." Man-
dane perceived that her son's passion was yet too
strong to suffer any remonstrances against it, and hop
ing that time and absence would insensibly weaken
it, she in the mean time soothed and encouraged
him.
Cassandana lived still at the court of Ecbatana, but
she always received Cyaxarcs with great coldness.—
He owed all the complaisance she had shewn him to
Cyrus's presence. The pleasure of seeing Cyrus, of
loving him, and being loved by him, filled her soul
with a secret joy that diffused itself through all her
actions. But after the departure of the young prince,
her conversation, which had before been so sprightly
and cheerful, was changed into a mournful silence.—
She languished, her lively wit seemed to be extinguish
ed, and all her natural charms to disappear. In the
mean while Pharnaspes fell dangerously ill at the
court of Persia, and desired to see his daughter ; upon
this news she left Ecbatana in haste, to pay the last
duties to her father. Several ladies of the court re
gretted her, but the greater part rejoiced at the ab
sence of a princess, whose manners were too perfect a
model of discreet conduct. Cyaxares saw the depar
ture of Cassandana with inexpressible dissatisfaction.
The Travels of Cyrus. 49
Spite, jealousy, hatred to his rival, all the passions
which arise from slighted love, tyrannized over his
heart. He gave orders to young Araspes, the son of
Harpagus, to go privately through by-ways, and stop
Cassandana, and to conduct her to a solitary place on
the borders of the Caspian Sea.
Araspes, though he had been educated amidst all
the pleasures of a voluptuous court, had nevertheless
preserved noble and generous sentiments, and sincere
ly abhorred every thing that was dishonorable.—
Whatever faults he had, proceeded rather from easi
ness and complaisance, than viciousness ; he was of
an amiable temper and a sound understanding ; and
being born for arms, as well as formed for a court, was
qualified for any employment, civil or military. He
communicated the orders given him by Cyaxares to
his father Harpagus, who loved Cyrus. Harpagus,
having long signalized his courage in war, lived at the
court of Ecbatana, without being corrupted by it. He
beheld with concern the manners of the age, but said
little, choosing rather to condemn them by his conduct,
than by his discourse. " I foresee, said he to Araspes,
all the misfortunes which virtue will bring upon us ;
but beware of gaining the prince's favor by a crime.—
Go, my son, and instead ofoppressing innocence, make
haste to its succor." Araspes departed with expedition,
overtook the princess near Aspadana, told her the or
ders of Cyaxares, and offered to conduct her to Persia.
She wept for joy to see the generosity of the young
Mede, and made haste to gain the frontiers of her own
country. Pharnaspes died before his daughter could
reach the court of Cambyses. When the princess had
mourned for the death of her father as nature and de
60 The Travels of Cyrus.
cency required, she at length saw Cyrus, and informed
him of the generous proceeding of Araspes. The
prince from that moment conceived a tender friendship
for him, which lasted to the end of their lives. But
Cyaxares resolved to avenge himself of Araspes, and
this in so cruel a manner as was a dishonor to human
nature. He caused Harpagus's second son to be mur
dered, and his mangled limbs to be served up before-
the unhappy father at a feast. The report of so horri
ble a cruelty stirred up the indignation ofall the Medos.
But Astyages, being blinded by paternal affection,
would not see nor punish his son's crime. And thus a
prince, who was naturally beneficent, countenanced
vice by a shameful weekness. He knew not the val
ue of virtue, and was only good by complexion. Har-
pagus being utterly disconsolate, retired from the court
of Ecbatana, and went privately into Persia, where
Cambyses granted him all the advantages and hon
ors he could offer him, to compensate his losses in
Media.
Cassandana, being not without hopes that Camby
ses would be prevailed on to alter his designs, lived at
the court of Persia in great tranquility. By her virtue,
wit, and good sense, she had gained the heart of Man-
danc, whose sentiments in relation to her son's mar
riage were altered by the death of Pharnaspes. Cas-
sandana's mother was daughter of the king of Arme
nia, and the young princess might one day be heiress of
that crown ; an alliance with Croesus would probably
excite the jealousy of the eastern princes against Cyrus,
and Lydia was at too great a distance to have speedy
succors from thence ; even the oracles themselves
seemed to be against this alliance, seeing they foretold
The Travels of Cyrus. 51
that Lydia was to be Cyrus's first conquest. All these
reasonsjoined together, determined Mandane to oppose
no longer her sons inclination ; however, she durst not
for the present discover her thoughts to Cambyses, be
cause he was still eagerly bent upon an alliance with
the king of Lydia.
Croesus had long formed the design of extending his
dominions in Asia. His numerous troops, and his pro
digious wealth had inspired him with these ambitious
thoughts. He had drawn into his service, or into his
alliance, the Egyptians, the Thracians, the Greeks, and
divers nations that were settled in Asia Minor ; he be
held with a jealous eye the conquests ofNabuchodono-
sor, and was seeking all means to stop the progress of
them ; he knew that Cyrus would be heir to the crown
of Media, in case Cyaxares died without children : the
Persians had acquired the reputation of a warlike peo
ple, and their country was conveniently situated for
making incursions into the territories ofthe king ofBa
bylon, if ever that prince should begin a war with Ly
dia. These considerations made Croesus very desirous
of informing himself by his own eyes of the respective
forces of the kings of Media and Babylon, and of the
advantages of an alliance with the one and with the
other : And having more artifice and ambition than
skill and prudence, he rashly resolved to leave his do
minions, which were not then very distant from Media,
and convey himself, with all his court, into the very
heart of Asia. In order to conceal his real views, he
raised several difficulties concerning the marriage of
his daughter with Cyrus, which could not be well ad
justed by embassies, and he proposed a conference with
Cambyses on the confines of Persia. Suza being a
52 TJie Travels of Cyrus.
neutral city, was chosen for the congress ; it was at
this time under the government of Phraotes, a tributa
ry prince to the Babylonians, and father of Abradates,
who was afterwards so remarkable for his devotion to
Cyrus. Croesus carried the queen of Lydia and his
daughter with him, under pretence of letting- them see
Cyrus before the conclusion of the marriage. He sent
notice to the court of Persia of his departure for Suza,
upon which Cambyses prepared likewise for his jour
ney thither. But this news threw the young prince of
Persia into the utmost despair, and Cassandana into a
terrible consternation. She had no distrust of Cyrus's
constancy, but she dreaded the ambition of Cambyses.
Mandane, who was steady in her views, desired that
Cassandana might go with the court to Suza. Camby
ses at first opposed it ; but fearing to heighten his son's
passion for that princess by a forced separation, he at
length yielded to the dexterous insinuations ofthe queen;
he flattered himself with the hope of changing his son's
inclination by the new object he should present him
with, and which indeed would have been capable of
stealing away the heart of Cyrus, had he been of that
fickle humor so natural to young princes.
The two courts being met at Suza, the first days
were spent in feasting and rejoicings. Croesus, who
was naturally vain, affected a pompous shew of mag
nificence. Cambyses, like a wise prince, placed all
his glory in the genius and military virtues of his sub
jects. The extraordinary concourse of men of two na
tions, so different in their manners, created a wonder
ful diversity in all the public shows and entertainments,
and a perfect contrast of courtiers and warriors. The
Lydians, though not grown quite effeminate, made a
T7te Travels of Cyrus. 53
shining figure by the magnificence of their dress, the
delicacy of their manners, and the sprightliness of their
conversation. But the Persians, who were rough
without ferocity, humane without politeness, and
haughty notwithstanding their simplicity, carried all
the prizes in the games by their superior address
and strength of body. The negociations were soon
begun ; and while the two kings employed all the arts
of policy to promote their designs, attentive love set all
his engines at work to disconcert them, and render
them fruitless.
The daughter of Croesus no sooner appeared at Su-
za, but all eyes were dazzled with her charms, and the
Persians universally cried out, that she alone was wor
thy of Cyrus, and the only princess who could make
him happy. She had a manner and a turn of mind
which were perfectly agreeable to the taste and genius
of that people ; her noble and sprightly air was tem
pered with a majestic sweetness ; she loved hunting,
and other masculine exercises, and never shewed any
token of the weaknesses natural to her sex ; the more
she was seen, the more she discovered of rare accom
plishments. Her superior graces and wit eclipsed
those of all the Lydian, Suzan and Persian ladies.
Cassandana's beauty maintained its prerogative no
where but in the heart of Cyrus. One bashful, tender,
modest look from that princess, was sufficient to render
him insensible to all the charms of Candaules. He be
haved himself, however, with so much discretion in
public, that the fair Lydian did not perceive his indif
ference ; but he was no sooner alone with her than he
became pensive, and seemed quite absent ; she was
far from guessing the cause of it, and made him some
8
54 The Travels of Cyrus.
times call home his thoughts by delicate strokes of rail
lery, to which he seldom gave her any answer ; when
he did, he seemed always embarrassed, and at a loss ;
the princess imputed this to a want of sense ratherthan
of sensibility, and she began to repent of her journey.
The negociations went on, but Cyrus sought all means
to retard them : neither the anger of Cambyses, nor
the counsels of Hystaspes, made any impressions on his
mind. Nevertheless, he inwardly condemned himself
for his rebellion against his father's will ; he begged
time to vanquish his passion, and promised to use his
utmost efforts to get the mastery of it ; nay, he thought
himself sincere in the promises he made, but he saw
Cassandana, and all resolutions vanished. He pressed,
importuned, made his tears plead with Mandane, and
used all his arguments with Cambyses ; he justified
his passion to himself by the oracles, and would needs
believe, that the gods, by calling him to the conquest of
Lydia, were secretly averse from his father's designs ;
he left no pretext unemployed to keep off the marriage,
and love favored his endeavors.
The Lydian princess had known Cassaudana at the
court of Ecbatana, and loved her with true affection.
She never once imagined herself to be her rival. Cas
sandana on the other hand felt no regret nor jealousy
to see the hemage that was paid to her friend's beauty,
but she could not consent to lose the heart of Cyrus ,
she never saw the young Lydian without uneasiness ;
she would not deceive her, and she durst not speak to
her ; she was afraid of dropping the least word which
might either be unworthy of her love, or impose upon
her friend : her trouble and her alarms were daily aug
mented, the amusements of the court became insipid to
_
The Travels of Cyrus. 5b
her, she scarce appeared any more in public ; she re
tired at length to a solitary place upon the frontiers of
Persia, where the princes of her family used ordinarily
to reside. It was about twenty furlongs from Suza, in
a pleasant vale, watered by three rivers, whose copious
streams being multiplied by the industrious inhabitants,
and distributed into several canals, fertilized the mea
dows, and kept them in a perpetual verdure. On one
side the little hills, which rose one above another, were
covered with olive, pomegranate and orange trees ; na
ture shewed herself there in her richest and gayest
dress. The lofty mountains, which appeared at a
great distance all around, and with their craggy tops
seemed to touch the sky, served as a barrier against the
winds. Through the middle of a garden, less beautifi
ed by art than nature, ran a crystal stream, which, fal
ling on a bed of pebbles, formed a cascade, whose a-
greeable murmur soothed the soul to sweet musing.
Not far from hence a wild vine interweavingits branch
es with many odoriferous shrubs, afforded all the day
long a cool and refreshing shade. Pharnaspes had
brought from Babylon the statues of Pyramus and
Thisbe, on the pedestals of which was represented, in
bas-relief, the history of their misfortunes, which had
made that city famous before it beeame so by its con
quest. -He had placed these statues in a bower, and
they were almost the only ornament with which art had
beautified this peaceful abode.
Candaules being informed of her friend's retreat,
went in all haste to make her a visit. Cassandana
was retired into the bower of Pyramus and Thisbe.
The princess of Lydia, intending to surprise her, stole
softly along behind the trees,, and beheld her prostrate
56 The Travels of Cyrus.
before the statues ; she drew near unseen, and listen
ing to what she said, heard her thus deplore her mis
fortunes. " O ve manes of chaste lovers ! if ye ever
come into these places, hear my complaints, be witness
of my passion, and soften the god of love in favor of
two the most unhappy of his votaries, whose fortune
resembles yours ; let him either perfect our union or
put an end to my life, which serves only to be an ob
stacle to the happiness of Candaules and the grandeur of
Cyrus." The princess of Lydia could refrain no lon
ger, but entered the bower ; the two friends embraced
each other, and remained a long time without words or
motion. Candaules was capable of strong and gene
rous friendship. She had never felt the power oflove ;
she had seen Cyrus with other eyes than Cassandana,
andcontinued at the court ofSuza, more out ofobedience
than inclination, so that her heart had no sacrifice to
make. She at length broke silence with these words :
" Ah Cassandana ! why did you conceal from me your
sentiments and your affliction 1 Banish your fears ; Cy
rus has made no impression on my heart ; I will soon
put an end to your misfortunes, without giving offence
either to Croesus or Cambyses." After this they passed
several hours together, made a mutual vow of eternal
friendship, and then Candaules returned to Suza.
Cyrus was informed of what had passed, and being
now no longer in any fear of injuring his love, began to
contract a very strict friendship with the Lydian prin
cess. She very soon perceived the wrong judgment
she had made of his understanding, and became fully
sensible of the superiority of his genius. They jointly
concerted measures to disturb the negociations, and he
resumed his easy, frank and cheerful air. Cambyses
The Travels of Cyrus. 57
was rejoiced at this change, imputed it to another
cause, and pressed the conclusion ofthe marriage ; but
then Croesus began to dissemble. He had discovered
that it would be much more advantageous for him to
have an alliance with the king of Babylon, than with
the king of Persia ; and while he was privately sound
ing the dispositions of Nabuchodonoser, raised several
difficulties which it was impossible for Cainbyses to
have foreseen. Candaules had seen Merodac, the As
syrian prince, at the court of Lydia, and though she
was not susceptible of the soft passion of love, she was
much better pleased with this match than with the
other ; her ambition struck in with her friendship for
Cassandana, and she used all her endeavors to engage
her father in this design. Mandane having learnt
how Candaules stood inclined, the more easily persua
ded herself, that the oracles were against the intended
marriage, and endeavored to make Cambyses indif
ferent about the success of the negociations. Cyrus,
who knew how every one was disposed, drew thence
all possible advantage to break off the treaty. Thus
religion, love, and policy, madeeach act a different part -r
the conferences were spun out to a great length, and -
nothing was determined. But now Croesus, receiving
intelligence that the king of Babylon was not averse
from an alliance with him, left Suza on a sudden, with
out declaring the reasons of his conduct. Cambyses
was piqued at this proceeding, but like a wise prince
dissembled his resentment, and went back to his capital.
Cassandana returned soon after to the court of Per
sia, and Cyrus pressed Mandane to speak to his father.
Cambyses, who did not easily forsake his first opinions,
was for renewing the negociations with Croesus ; but
58 'Hie Travels of Cyrus.
the queen represented to him that Cassandana, by her
mother's side, was grand-daughter to the king of Ar
menia, who was far advanced in years, and had but one
son ; that in case this prince should die she Would be
heiress of that crown ; that the oracles seemed to dis
countenance her son's marriage with the daughter of
Croesus, having foretold that Cyrus should begin his
eonquests by that of Lydia. Let us leave to the gods,
said she, the care of accomplishing their own decrees,
without prescribing to them the means they shall em
ploy ; they often fulfd their designs by such methods as
to us would seem calculated to disappoint them. Two
considerable events wrought that effect upon the king's '
mind, which the queen's solicitations would never have
done. Advice came that the daughter of Croesus was
promised to the son of the king of Babylon, and that
these two princes hadentered into astrictalliance. This
news disconcerted his schemes. But what determined
him at length to comply with his son's wishes, was the
death of the prince of Armenia, by which Cassandana
became presumtive heiress ofthat crown.
The nuptials were celebrated according to the man
ner ofthe age and of the country. Cyrus and Cassan
dana were conducted to the top ofa high mountain con
secrated to the great Oromazes ; a fire of odoriferous
wood was lighted ; the high-priest bound together the
flowing robes of the two lovers as a symbol of their un
ion ; then holding each other by the hand, and sur
rounded by the Estals,* they danced about the sacred
fire, singing, according to the religion of the ancient
• TVa is a Chaidee word which signifies Fire; the Romans, add
V to it, and make it Vesta,
The Travels of Cyrus. 59
v
Persians, the love of Oromazes for his daughter My-
thra before the beginning of time ; the picture which
she presented him, containing the ideas of all things:
the production of innumerable worlds resembling those
ideas ; the birth of the pure genii, appointed to inhabit
these worlds ; the revolt of Arimanius against the god
Mythras ; the origin of the chaos, and how it was re
duced to order ; the fall of spirits into mortal bodies ;
the labors of Mythras to raise them again to the Em-
pyreum ; and lastly, the total destruction of the evil
principle, who diffuses every where hatred, discord,
and the hellish passions.
The young prince's happiness increased daily. The
more he was acquainted with the mind and heart of
Cassandana, the more he discovered there of th»se ever
new and ever blooming charms which are not to be
found in beauty alone. Neither marriage, winch often
weakens the strongest passions, nor that almost invin
cible fondness for novelty, so universal in mankind, di
minished in the least the mutual affection ofthese hap
py lovers.
SECOND BOOK.
THE prince of Persia was so enamored with Cas- -
sandana, and his thoughts were so entirely employed
in furnishing amusements for her, that there was great
reason to fear he would give himself up to an indolent
life. He was daily inventing new shows and entertain
ments unknown before in Persia, and introduced all
the diversions in vogue at the court of Ecbatana. He
gave no attention to business, and even neglected mili
tary exercises. This kind of life exposed him continu
ally to be seduced by the discourses of the young Sa-
trapes who were about him. The Gymnosophists were
beginning at this time to spread abroad in Persia their
pernicious doctrine concerning thetwo principles, which
make men virtuous without merit, or vicious without
fault, by the force of an invincible fatality. All the
younger sort readily adopted this opinion, because it
favored their passions. The deadly poison was stealing
by degrees into the heart of Cyrus, and even Araspes
helped to cherish in his breast these rising prejudices
against religion.
On the borders of the Persian gulph there had been
lately settled a famious school of Magi, whose doctrine
was entirely opposite to these fatal errors. Cyrus had
a taste and a genius which led him to the study of the
sublimest sciences ; and Hystaspes, without letting the
prince perceive his views, laid hold of this advantage to
raise a desire in him of conversing with these sages. As
they never left their solitude, shunning the courts of
Tlie Travels of Cyrus. 61
princes, and had little intercourse with other men, Cy
rus resolved to go and see them in their retreat.
He undertook this journey with Cassandana, ac
companied by Hystaspes, Araspes, and several of the
Persian nobles. They crossed the plain of Passagar-
da, travelled through the country of the Mardi, and ar
rived upon the banks of the Arosis. They entered by
a narrow pass into a large valley, encompassed with
high mountains, the tops of which were covered with
oaks, fir-trees, and lofty cedars ; below were rich pas
tures, in which all sorts of cattle were feeding ; the
plain looked like a garden watered with many rivulets*
which came from the rocks all around, and emptied
themselves into the Arosis. This river lost itself be
tween two little hills, which, as they opened, present
ed to the view successive scenes ofnew objects, and dis
covered at distances fruitful fields, vast forests, and the
Persian gulf, which bounded the horizon. Cyrus and
Cassandana as they advanced in the valley, were in
vited into a neighboring grove by the sound of har
monious music. There they beheld, by the side of a
clear fountain, a great number of men of all ages, and
over against them a company ofwomen, who formed a
concert. They understood that it was the school ofthe
Magi, and were surprised to see, instead of austere,
melancholy and thoughtful men, an agreeable and po
lite people.
These philosophers looked upon music as something
heavenly, and proper to calm the passions, for which
reason they always began and finished the day by con
certs. After they had given some little time in the
morning to this exercise, they led their disciples through
delightful walks to the sacred mountain, observing all
9
62 The Travels of Cyrus.
the way a profound silence ; there they offered their
homages to the gods, rather by the voice of the heart
than of the lips. Thus, by music, pleasant walks and
prayer, they prepared themselves for the contemplation
of the truth, and put the soul into a serenity proper for
meditation; the rest of the day was spent in study
Their only repast was a little before sun-set, at which
time they eat nothing but bread, fruits, and some por
tion of what had been offered to the gods, concluding
all with concerts of music. Other men begin not the
education of their children till after they are born, but
the Magi seemed to do it before. While their wives
were with child, they took care to keep them always in
tranquility, and a perpetual cheerfulness, by sweet and
innocent amusements, to the end that from the moth
er's womb the fruit might receive no impressions, but
what were pleasing, peaceful, and agreeable to order.
Each sage had his province in the empire of philoso
phy. Some studied the virtues of plants, others the
metamorphoses of insects ; some again the conforma
tion of animals, and others the course of the stars.
But the aim of all their researches was to come to the
knowledge of the gods and of themselves. They said,
that the sciences were no farther valuable than they
served as steps to ascend to the great Oromazes, and
from thence to descend to man. Though the love of
truth was the only bond of society among these philoso
phers, yet they were not without a head ; they called
him the Archimagus. He, who then possessed that
honor, was named Zardust or Zoroaster ; he surpas
sed the rest more in wisdom than in age, for he was
scarce fifty years old ; nevertheless he was a consum
mate master in all the sciences of the Chaldeans and,
ML
The Travels of Cyrus. 63
Egyptians, and had even some knowledge of the re
ligion of the Jews, whom he had seen at Babylon.
Having observed the corruption which had crept in
among the Magi, he had applied himselfto reform their
manners and their doctrine.
When Cyrus and Cassandana entered into the grove,
the assembly rose up, and worshipped them, bowing
themselves to the earth, according to the custom of the
East ; and then retiring, left them alone with Zoroas
ter. This philosopher led them to a bower of myrtle,
in the midst of which was the statue of a woman,
which he had carved with his own hands. They all
three sat down in this place upon a seat of verdant turf,
and Zoroaster entertained the prince and princess with
the discourse of his life, manners and virtues of the Ma
gi. While he was speaking he frequently cast a look
uponthe statue, and as he beheld it his eyes were bathed
in tears. Cyrus and Cassandana observed his sorrow at
first with a respectful silence, but afterwards the prin
cess could not forbear asking him the reason of it.
That statue, answered he, is the statue of Selima, who
heretofore loved me, as you now love Cyrus. It is here
that I come to spend my sweetest and my bitterest mo
ments. In spite of wisdom, which submits me to the
will of the gods ; in spite of the pleasures I taste in
philosophy ; in spite of the insensibility I am in, with
regard to all human grandeur ; the remembrance of
Selima often renews my regrets and my tears. True
virtue, though it regulates the passion*? does not ex
tinguish tender sentiments. These words gave Cyrus
and Cassandana a curiosity to know the history of Se
lima. The philosopher would have excused himself,
but he had already betrayed his secret by the sensibil-
64 The Travels of Cyrus.
ity he had shewn, and could not go back without fail
ing in due respect to persons of such high rank ; hav
ing thereforewiped away his tears, he thus began his
narration. " I am not afraid of letting you know my
weakness ; but I should avoid the recital I am going
to make, if I did not foresee that you may reap some
useful instruction from it. I was born a prince ; my
father was sovereign of a little territory in the Indies,
which is called the country of the Sophites. Having
lost my way one day when I was hunting, I chanced to
see in the thick part of the wood a young maid, who
was there reposing herself. Her surprising beauty
immediately struck me ; I became immoveable, and
durst not advance ; I imagined she was one of those
aerial spirits, who descend sometimes from the throne
of Oromazcs, to conduct souls back to the Empyreum.
Seeing herself alone with a man, she fled and took re
fuge in a temple that was near the forest. I durst not
follow her ; but I learnt that her name was Selima,
that she was daughter of an old Brahman, who dwelt
in that temple, and that she was consecrated to the
worship of the fire. The Estal may quit celibacy and
marry ; but while they continue priestesses of the fire,
the laws are so severe among the Indians, that a father
thinks it an act of religion to throw his daughter alive
into the flames, should she ever fall from that purity of
manners which she has sworn to preserve.
" My father was yet living, and I was not in a condi
tion to force Selimafrom that asylum ; nayy had I been-
king, princes have no right in that country over per
sons consecrated to religion. However, all these dif
ficulties did but increase my passion ; and the violence
of it quickened my ingenuity. I left my father's pal
The Travels of Cyrus. 65
ace ; I was young, a prince, and did not consult rea
son. I disguised myself in the habit of a girl, and
went to the temple where the old Brahman lived. I
deceived him by a feigned story, and became one of the
Estals under the name of Amana. The king my fa
ther, who was disconsolate for my sudden leaving him,
ordered search to be made for me every where, but to
no purpose. Selima, not knowing my sex, conceived
a particular liking and friendship for me. I never left
her ; we passed our lives together in working, reading,
walking, and serving at the altars. I often told her fa
bles and affecting stories, in order to paint forth the
wonderful effects of friendship and of love. My de
sign was to prepare her by degrees for the final dis
covery of my intentions. I sometimes forgot myself
while I was speaking, and was so carried away by
my vivacity, that she often interrupted me, and said,
" One would think, Amana, to hear you speak, that
you feel in this moment all that you describe." I lived
in this manner several months with her, and it was not
possible for her to discover either my disguise or my
passion. As my heart was not corrupted, I had no
criminal view ; I imagined, that if I could engage her
to love me, she would forsake her state of life to share
my crown with me : I was continually waiting for a
favorable moment, to reveal to her my sentiments ; but
alas ! that moment never came.
" It was a custom among the Estals, to go divers
times in a year upon a high mountain, there to kindle
the sacred fire, and to offer sacrifices. We all went
up thither one day, accompanied only by the old Brah
man. Scarce was the sacrifice begun, when we were
surrounded by a body of men armed with bows and ar
66 The Travels of Cyrus.
rows, who carried away Selima and her father. They
were all on horseback : I followed them some time, but
they entered into a wood, and I saw them no more.
I did not return to the temple, but stole away from the
Estals, changed my dress, took another disguise, and
forsook the Indies. I forgot my father, my country, and
all my obligations ; I wandered over all Asia in search
of Selima. What cannot love do in a young heart
given up to its passion ? One day, as I was crossing
the country of the Lycians, I stopt in a great forest to
shelter myself from the excessive heat. I presently
saw a company of hunters pass by, and a little after
several women, among whom I thought I discovered
Selima. She was in a hunting dress, mounted upon a
proud courser, and distinguished from all the rest by a
coronet of flowers. She passed by me so swiftly, that
I could not be sure whether my conjectures were well
founded ; but I went strait to the capital.
" The Lycians were at that time governed by women,
which form of government was established among
them upon the following occasion. Some years ago
the men became so effeminate during a long peace,
that their thoughts were wholly taken up about their
dress. They affected the discourse, manners, maxims,
and all the imperfections of women, without having
either their sweetness or their delicacy ; and while they
gave themselves up to infamous laziness, the most a-
bominable vices took the place of lovely passions ; they
despised the Lycian women, and treated them like
slaves, A foreign war came upon them ; the men
being grown cowardly and effeminate, were not able
to defend their country ; they fled and hid themselves
in caves and caverns ;. the women being accustomed to
The Travels of Cyrus. 67
fatigue, by the slavery they had undergone, took arms,
drove away the enemy, became mistresses of the coun
try, and established themselves in authority by an im
mutable law. From that time the Lycians habituated
themselves to this form ofgovernment, and found it the
mildest and most convenient. Their queens had a
council of senators, who assisted them with their ad
vice. The men proposed good laws, but the executive
power was in the women. The sweetness and softness
of the sex prevented all the mischiefs oftyranny ; and
the counsel of the wise senators qualified that incon
stancy with which women are reproached.
" I understood that the mother of Selima, having
been dethroned by the ambition of a kinswoman, her
first minister had fled to the Indies with the young prin-
eess ; that he had lived there several years as a Brah
man, and she as an Estal ; that this old man having
always maintained a correspondence with the friends
of the royal family, the young queen had been restored
to the throne after the death of the usurper : that she
governedwith the wisdom ofa personwho hadexperien
ced misfortunes ; andlastly,thatshehad always express
ed an invincible dislike to marriage. This news gave
me an inexpressible joy ; I thanked the gods for hav
ing conducted me by such wonderful ways near the ob
ject of my heart ; I implored their help, and promised
neverto love but once, if they would favor my passion.
" I then considered by what method I should intro
duce myself to the queen ; and finding that war was
the most proper, I entered into the service. There I
distinguished myself very soon ; for I refused no fa
tigue, I avoided no danger, I sought the most hazard
ous enterprises. Upon a day of battle, on the success
68 The Travels of Cyrus.
of which the liberty of Lycia depended, the Carians put
our troops into disorder. It was in a large plain, out
of which there was but one narrow pass for the fugi
tives to escape. I gained this pass, and threatened to
pierce with ray javelin whoever should attempt to force
it. In this manner I rallied our troops, and returned
to charge the enemy ; I routed them, and obtained
a complete victory. This action drew the attention of
all the army upon me. Nothing was spoken of but my
courage ; and all the soldiers called me the deliverer
of their country. I was conducted to the queen's pre
sence, who could not recollect me ; for we had been
separated six years, and grief and fatigue had altered
my features. She asked me my name, my country, my
family, and seemed to examine my face with a more
than common curiosity. I thought I discovered by her
eyes an inward emotion, which she endeavored to
hide. Strange capriciousness of love ! Heretofore I
had thought her an Estal of mean birth ; yet I had re
solved to share my crown with her. This moment I
conceived a design ofengaging her to love me as I had
loved her ; I concealed my country and my birth, and
told her, I was born in a village of Bactria, of a Ttery
obscure family ; upon this she suddenly withdrew
without answering me.
" Not long after, she gave me, by the advice of her
senators, the command of the army; by which I had
free access to her person. She used frequently to send
for me, under pretence of business, when she had noth
ing to say ; she took a pleasure in discoursing with me.
I often painted forth my own sentiments to her under
borrowed names ; the Greek and Egyptian mythology
which I had learned in. my travels, furnished me with
The Travels of Cyru3. G9
abundant arguments to prove, that the gods were here
tofore enamored with morals, and that love makes all
conditions equal. I remember, that one day while I
was relating to her a story of this kind, she left me in
a great emotion ; I discovered by that her hidden senti
ments ; and it gave me an inexpressible pleasure to
find that she then loved me as I had loved her.
I had frequent conversations with her, by which
ker confidence in me daily increased. I sometimes
made her call to mind the misfortunes of her ear
ly youth ; and she then gave me an account of her living
among the Estals, her friendship for A inana and their
mutual affection . Scarce was I able to contain myself
when I heard her speak ; I was just ready to throw off
my disguise ; but my false delicacy required yet far
ther, that Selima should do for me what I would have
done for her. I was quickly satisfied ; an extraordina
ry event made me experience all the extent and power
of her love.
" By the laws of Lycia the person who governs is not
permitted to marry a stranger. Selima sent for me one
day, and said to me, My subjects desire that I would
marry ; go* tell them from me, that I will consent upon
condition that they leave me free in my choice. She
spoke these words with a majestic air, and almost with
out looking upon me. At first I trembled, then flatter
ed myself, then fell into doubt ; for I knew the Lycians
to be strongly attached to their laws. I went, never
theless to execute the commands I had received. When
the council wasassembled, I laid before them the queen's
pleasure, and, after much dispute, it was agreed, that
she should be left free to choose herself a husband. I
carried Selima the result of their deliberation. She
10
TO The Travels of Cyrus.
then directed me to assemble the troops in the same
plain where I had obtained the victory over the Carians,
and to hold myself ready to obey her farther orders.
She likewise commanded all the principal men of the
nation to repair to the same place. A magnificent
throne being there erected, the queen appeared upon it
encircled by her courtiers, and spoke to the assembly in
the following manner : " People of Lycia, ever since I
began my reign, I have strictly observed your laws ; I
have appeared at the head of your armies, and have
obtained several victories. My only study has been to
make you free and happy. Is it just, that she who has
been the preserver of your liberty should be herself a
slave ? Is it equitable, that she who continually seeks
your happiness should be herself miserable 1 There is
no unhappiness equal to that of doing violence to one's
own heart. When the heart is uuder a constraint,
grendeur and royalty serve only to give us a quicker
sense of our slavery. I demand, therefore, to be free
in my choice."
" This discourse was applauded by the whole as
sembly, who immediately cried out, You are free, you
are dispensed from the law. The queen sent me or
ders to advance at the head of the troops. As soon as
I was come near the throne, she rose up, and pointing
to me with her hand, " There, said she, is my husband ;
he is a stranger, but his services make him the father
of the country. ; he is not a prince ; but his merit puts
him upon a level with kings. She then ordered me to
come up to her. I prostrated myself at her feet, and
took all the usual oaths. I promised to renounce my
country forever, to look upon the Lycians as my child
ren, and above all, never to love any other than the.
The Travels of Cyrus. 71
queen. After this she stepped down from the throne,
and we were conducted back to the capital with pomp,
amidst the acclamations of the people. As soon as we
were alone, "Ah Selima ! said I, have you then for
got 'Amana?" It is impossible to express the queen's
surprise, or the transport of affection and joy which
these words gave her. She knew me, and conjectur
ed all the rest ; I had no need to speak, and we were
both a long time silent. At length I told her my fam
ily, my adventures, and all the effects that love had
produced. She very soon assembled her council, and
acquainted them with my birth ; ambassadors were
sent to the Indies ; I renounced my crown and country
forever, and my brother was confirmed in the posses
sion ofmy throne.
u This was an easy sacrifice; I was in possession of
Selima, and my happiness was complete. But alas !
this happiness was of short continuance. In giving
myself up to my passion, I had renounced my country,
I had forsaken my father whose only consolation I was ;
I had forgot all my duty. My love, which seemed so
delicate, so generous, and was the admiration of men,
was not approved of by the gods ; accordingly they
punished me for it by the greatest of all misfortunes ;
they took Selima from me ; she died within a few days
after our marriage. I gave myself up to the most ex
cessive sorrow ; but the gods did not abandon me. I
entered deeply into myself ; wisdom descended into my
heart ; she opened the eyes of my understanding, and
I then comprehended the admirable mystery ofthe con
duct of Oromazes. Virtue is often unhappy, and this
shocks the reason of short-sighted men ; but they are
ignorant that the transient sufferings of this life are de
72 The Travels of Cyrus.
signed by the gods to expiate the secret faults of those
who appear the most virtuous. These reflections de
termined me to consecrate the rest of my days to the
study of wisdom. Selima was dead, my bonds were
broken, I was no longer tied to any thing in nature ;
the whole earth appeared to me a desart ; I could not
reign in Lycia after the death of Selima, and I would
not remain in a country where every thing continually
renewed the remembrance of my loss. I returned to
the Indies, and went to live among the Brahmans,
where I formed a new plan of happiness. Being
freed from the slavery which always accompanies
grandeur, I established within myself an empire over
my passions and desires, more glorious and satisfacto
ry than the false lustre of royalty. But now, notwith
standing my retreat, and the distance I was at, my
brother conceived a jealousy of me, as if I had been
ambitious of ascending the throne, and I was obliged
once more to leave the Indies. My exile proved a new
source of happiness to me ; it depends upon ourselves
to reap advantage from misfortunes. I visited the
wise men of Asia, and conversed with the philosophers
of different countries. I learned their laws and their
religion, and was charmed to find, that the great men
of all times, and of all places, had the same ideas of the
Divinity and of morality. At last I came hither upon
the banks of the Arosis, where the Magi have chosen
me for their head."
Here Zoroaster ended ; Cyrus and Cassandana
were too much affected to be able to speak. After
some moments of silence, the philosopher discoursed
to them of the happiness which faithful lovers enjoy in
the Empyreum, when they meet again there ; he then
The Travels of Cyrus. 78
concluded with these wishes : " May you long feel the
happiness of mutual and undivided love ! May thexgods
preserve you from that depravity of heart, which makes
pleasures lose their relish when once they become law
ful ! May you, after the transports of a lively and pure
passion in your younger years, experience, in a more
advanced age, all the charms of that union which di
minishes the pains of life, and augments its pleasures
by sharing them ! May a long and agreeable old age
let you see your distant posterity multiplying the race
of heroes upon earth! May at last one and the same
day unite the ashes of both, to exempt you from the
misfortune of bewailing, like me, the loss of what you
love ! My only comfort is, the hope of seeing Selima
again in the sphere of fire, the pure element of love.
Souls make acquaintance only here below ; it is above
that their union is consummated. O Selima ! Selima !
we shall one day meet again, and our flame will be
eternal ; I know, that in these superior regions your
happiness will not be complete till I shall share it with
you ; those who have loved each other purely, will love
so forever ; true love is immortal."
The history which Zoroaster had given of his own
life made a strong impression upon the prince and prin
cess ; it confirmed them in their mutual tenderness,
and in their love of virtue ; they spent some time with
the sage in his solitude before they returned to the court
of Cambyses. It was during this retreat that Zoroas
ter initiated Cyrus into all the misteries of the Eastern
wisdom. The Chaldeans, the Egyptians, and the
Gymnosophists had a wonderful knowledge of nature,
but they wrapped it up in allegorical fables. And this
doubtless is the reason that venerable antiquity has been
74 Vie Travels of Cyrus.
reproached with ignorance in natural philosophy. Zo
roaster laid open to Cyrus the secrets of nature, not
merely to gratify his curiosity, but to make him ob
serve the marks ofan infinite Wisdom diffused through
out the universe, and thereby to guard his mind against
irreligion.
One while he mad» him admire the structure of the
human body, the springs of which it is composed, and
the liquors that flow in it ; the canals, the pumps and
the basons which are formed by the mere interweaving
of the fibres, in order to separate, purify, conduct and
reconduct the liquids into all the extremities of the bo
dy ; then the levers and the cords, formed by the bones
and muscles, in order to the various motions of the
members. It is thus, said the philosopher, that our
body is a surprising contexture of tubes, branched out
into endless divisions and subdivisions, which have a
communication with one another, while different and
suitable liquors are insinuated into them, and are there
prepared according to the rules of the most exact me
chanism. An infinity of small imperceptible springs,
the construction and motions of which we are ignorant
of, are continually playing in our bodies ; and it is
therefore evident, that nothing but a sovereign Inteli-
gence could produce, adjust and preserve so compound
ed, so delicate and so admirable a machine. The life
of this machine depends on the freedom and amenity
with which the liquids flow in the various canals ; all
our diseases on the other hand proceed from the thick
ness of the liquids, which, stopping in those impercep
tible vessels, choak them up, swell and relax them ;
or from the acromony of the juices, which prick, disjoin
and tear those delicate fibres. Indolence occasions the
The Travels of Cyrus. 75
first, and intemperance the second ; for which reason
the Persian laws have wisely enjoined sobriety and ex
ercise, as necessary to prevent the enfeebling both of
the political and natural body.
At another time he explained to him the configura
tion ofplants, and the transformation of insects. They
had not our optic glasses to magnify objects and bring
them near ; but the penetrating spirit of Zoroaster saw
farther than the eyecan reach by their help ; because he
was acquainted not only with all the experimentsof the
ancients and theirtraditions, but also with the occultsci-
ences revealed by the genii to the first men. Each
seed, said he, contains within it a plant of its own spe
cies ; this plant, another seed ; and this seed another
plant ; and so on without end. These organic moulds
cannot be formed by the simple laws of motion. They
are the first production of the great Oromazes, who
originally inclosed within each seed all the bodies to be
derived from it. None but he alone could thus conceal
innumerable wonders in a single imperceptible atom.
The growth of vegetables is but the unfolding of the fi
bres, membranes and branches, by the moisture of the
earth, which in an admirable manner insinuates itself
into them. Every plant has two sorts of pipes ; the
one filled with air are like lungs to it, the other filled
with sap may be compared to arteries. In the day time
the heat of the sun rarefies, swells and dilates the air
contained in the first sort, so that they compress the
other, and thereby break the particles of the sap, refine
it and make it rise, in order to the production of leaves,
flowers and fruits. The same air growing cool during
the night, is condensed and contracted, and no longer
presses upon the alimentary tubes ; so that these being
76 The Travels of Cyrus.
opened and dilated, receive the moisture of the earth,
pregnant with salts, sulphurs and minerals, which the
pressure of the atmosphere forces in through the roots.
It is thus that the plants feed in the night, and digest in
the day ; the nutritive sap being distributed through
all the branches, at length perspires, and, spouting out
of their small delicate pipes with incredible force, forms
an infinite number ofjets d'eau. These spouts meet,
mix, cross one another, and perhaps serve* for an en
tertainment of the aerial genii, before whom the won
ders of nature lie all unveiled. One blade of grass
presents more various and amazing objects to their
view, than all the water-works in the enchanted gar
dens of the king of Babylon. If poets were philoso
phers, the bare description of nature would furnish
them with more agreeable pictures than all their alle
gorical paintings ; the poor resource of a hoodwinked
imagination, when reason does not lend it eyes to dis
cern the beauty ofthe works of Oromazes. Zoroaster
then shewed the prince the trees, plants and roots, the
gums, bitters and aromatics which help to dissolve, at
tenuate and liquify our juices, when they grow too
thick ; to pound, blunt, and absorb the humors when
too sharp ; to fortify, repair and give a new tension to
the fibres when weakened, torn or relaxed. Heroes
were in former times philosophers, and conquerors
were fond of knowing themselves how to repair in part
the mischiefs occasioned by their battles and victories.
After this, the philosopher gave Cyrus a view of the
wonderful art discoverable in the formation of insects.
Their eggs, said he, scattered in the air, upon the earth,
and in the waters, meet in each with proper recepta
cles, and wait only for a favorable ray of the sun to
The Travels of Cyrus. 77
hatch them. Sometimes they are worms crawling up
on the earth ; then fishes swimming in liquors ; and at
last they get wings and rise into the air. These almost
invisible machines have in each of them numberless
springs at work, which furnish and prepare liquors
suited to their wants. What mechanism, what art,
what fresh and endless proofs have we here of an infi
nite Wisdom which produces all !
At another time, the sage carried the thoughts of
Cyrus up into the higher regions, to contemplate the
various phenomena which happen in the air. He ex
plained to him the wonderful qualities of this subtle
and invisible fluid which encompasses the earth, in or
der to compress all the parts of it, keep each of them in
its proper place, and hinder them from disuniting ; how
necessary it is to the life of animals, the growth of
plants, the flying of birds, the forming of sounds, and
numberless other useful and important effects. This
fluid, said he, being agitated, heated, cooled again,
compressed, dilated, one while by the rays of the sun.
or the subterraneous fires ; sometimes by the salts and
sulphurs which float in it ; at other times by nitres
which fix and congeal it ; sometimes by clouds which
compress it, and often by other causes which destroy
the equilibrium of its parts, produces all sorts of winds,
the most impetuous of which serve to dispel the nox
ious vapors, and the softer breezes to temper the ex
cessive heats. At other times the rays of the sun, in
sinuating themselves into the little drops of dew which
water the surface of the earth, rarefy them, and there
by make them lighter than the air ; so that they as
cend into it, form vapors, and float there at different
heights, according as they are more or less heavy. The
11
78 The Travels of Cyrus.
sun having drawn up these vapors loaded with sul
phur, minerals, and different kinds of salts, they kindle
in the air, put it into a commotion, and cause thunder
and lightning. Other vapors that are lighter, gather
into clouds and float in the air ; but when they become
too heavy, they fall in dews, showers of rain, snow and
hail, according as the air is more or less heated.
Those vapors which are daily drawn from the
sea, and carried in the air by the winds to the
tops of mountains, fall there, soak into them, and
meet in their inward cavities, where they increase
and swell, till they find a vent, or force a pas
sage, and so become plenteous springs of refreshing
water. By these are formed rivulets, of which the
smaller rivers are composed ; and these latter, again
form the great rivers, which return into the sea to re
pair the loss it had suffered by the ardent rays of the
sun. Thus it is, that all the irregularities and intern*
perature ofthe elements which seem to destroy nature
in one season, serve to revive it in another. The im
moderate heats of summer, and the excessive cold in
winter, prepare the beauties of the spring, and the rich
fruits of autumn. All these vicissitudes,- which seem
to superficial minds the effects of a fortuitous concourse
of irregular causes, are regulated according to weight
and measure, by that sovereign Wisdom who weighs
the earth as a grain of sand, and the sea as a drop of
water.
Then Zoroaster raised his thoughts to the stars, and
explained to Cyrus how they all float in an active, uni
form, and infinitely subtle fluid, which fills and per
vades all nature. This invisible matter, said he, does
not act by the necessary law of a blind mechanism. It
77*e Travels of Cyrus. ?9
is, as it were, the* body of the great Oromazes, whose
soul is truth. By the one he acts upon all bodies, and
by the other he enlightens all spirits. His vivifying
presence gives activity to this pure ether, which be
comes thereby the primary mechanical spring of all the
motions in the heavens and upon the earth. It causes
the fixed stars to turn upon their axis, while it makes
the planets circulate round those stars ; it transmits
with an incredible velocity the light of those heavenfy
bodies as the air does sounds ; and its vibrations, as
they are more or less quick, produce the agreeable va
riety of colors, as those ofthe air do the melodious notes
of music. Lastly, the fluidity of liquids, the cohesion
of solids, the gravitation, elasticity, attraction, and fer
mentation of bodies, the sensation of animals, and the
vegetation of plants, come all from the action of this
exceedingly subtlefspirit, which diffuses itselfthrough
* Those who are unacquainted with the style of antiquity, im
agine that Zoroaster and Pythagorus make the Deity corporeal by
this expression, and that it gave occasion to the error of the Stoics,
who believed the Divine Essence an ethereal matter ; but the con
trary is evident by the definitions which those two philosophers give
of the Divinity. (Disp. p. 276. and p. 284, 285.) It seems to me,
that by the body of God, they mean nothing more than what Sir
Isaac Newton expresses by these words : Dens ubinue praeens voi-
untate sua corpora omnia in infinite suo uniformi SE.WSORIO movet
adeoque cunctas mundi univcrsi partes ad arbilrium suum Jingit isf
repngit, muito magis auam anima nostra volv.nta.te sua ad corporis
nostri membra movenda vale!, Opt. p. 411.
t These are the very words of Sir Isaac Newton : Adjiccre jan-
liect nonnulla de SPIRITU guodam SUBTILISSIMO corpora eras-
*« pervadente, isf in iisdem latentc, cujus vi [Zfactionibus particuhr
corporum ad minima» distantias se mulo ATTRAHUNT, (St- contigute
facta:, COH.EREMT, is* corpora ELECTRICA agunt ad distantias
majores ; is? LUX emititur, rcftectitur, rcfringitur, infieetiiur, W cale-
facit; W SEXSATIO omnis exciMur, et MEMBRA ANIMAL
80 The Travels of Cyrus.
out all the immensity of space. The same simple
cause produces numberless and even contrary effects,
yet without any confusion in so infinite a variety of
motions.
We are struck with surprise, continued the philoso
pher, to see all the wonders of nature, which discover
themselves to our short and feeble sight ; but how
great would be our amazement, if we could transport
ourselves into those etherial spaces, and pass through
them with a rapid flight ? Each star would appear an
atom in comparison of the immensity with which it is
surrounded. 'What would our wonder be, if descend
ing afterwards upon earth, we could accommmodate
our eyes to the minuteness of objects, and pursue the
smallest grain of sand through its infinite divisibility ?
Each atom would appear a world, in which we should
doubtless discover new beauties. There is nothing
great, nothing little in itself; both the great and the
little disappear by turns, to present every where an
image of infinity through all the works of Oromazes.
What a folly is it then to go about to explain the *
original ofthings by the mere laws of matter and mo
tion ! The universe is the work of the great Oromazes ;
lUMpd voluniate moventur. He never denied a subtle matter in
this sense, and it is in this sense that I always understand it. See
Discourse,
* Philosophic naturalis id revera prtecijiuum est et officium etfinis,
,at ex phanomenis sinefictis hyflolhesibus arguamus, et ab cffectis ra-
tiorinalionepregrediumur ad causas, donee ad iftsum domumperveniam-
us eausamprimam, qux nine omni dubio mechaniea non est . . atquc his
quidem rite exjiedftis, exphxnomenis constabitfsse F.ntem incorporeum,
,vive!itc7ntintelligentcm, omnipnsentem, qui in spatio inftnito tanquam
Srnsorio suo res ipsas intime cernat, penittcs perspicial, totasque intra
6? prxsentcs complectator. Newt. Opt. p. 273.
The Travels of Cyrus. . 81
he preserves and governs it by general laws ; but these
laws are free, arbitrary, and even diversified in the
different regions of immensity, according to the effects
he would there produce, and the various relations he
would establish between bodies and spirits. It is from
him that every thing flows ; it is in him that every
thing exists ; it is by him that every thing lives ;
and to him alone should all things be referred.
Without him all nature is an inexplicable enig
ma ; with him the mind conceives every thing pos
sible, even at the same time that it is sensible of its own
ignorance and narrow limits.
Cyrus was charmed with this instruction ; new
worlds seemed to be unveiled before him ; Where have
I lived, said he, till now ? The simplest objects con
tain wonders which escape my sight. Every thing
bears the mark of an infinite wisdom and power.
The great Oromazes, ever present to his work, gives
to all bodies their forms and their motions, to all spirits
their reason and their virtues. He beholds them all
in his immensity ; he governs them, not by any neces
sary laws of mechanism ; he makes and he changes the
laws by which he rules them, as it best suits with the
designs of his justice and goodness.
While Cyrus was thus entertained with the conver
sation of Zoroaster, Cassandana assisted vyth the
wives ofthe magi in celebrating the festival of the god
dess Mythra. The ancient Persians adored but one
sole supreme Deity, but they considered the god My-
tbras and the goddess Mythra, sometimes as two em
anations from his substance, and at other times as the
firs" productions of his power. * Every day was sacred
to t' - great Oromairt?, because he was never to be for-
gc-X-,-a Eat the festival of the goddess Mythra was
82 The Travels of Cyrus.
observed only towards the end of the spring, and that
of Mythras about the beginning of autumn. During
the first, which lasted ten days, the women performed
all the priestly functions, and the men did not assist at
it ; as on the other hand the women were not admitted
to the celebration of the last. This separation of the
two sexes was thought necessary, in order to preserve
the soul from all imaginations which might profane its
joys in these solemn festivals.
The ancient Persians had neither temples nor altars ;
they sacrificed upon high mountains and eminences ;
nor did they use libations, or music, or hallowed bread.
Zoroaster had made no change in the old rites, except
by the introduction of music into divine worship. At
break of day all the wives of the magi being crowned
with myrtle, and clothed in long white robes, walked
two and two with a slow grave pace to the mount of
Mythra ; they were followed by their daughters clad
in fine linen, and leading the victims adorned with
wreaths of all colors. The summit of the hill was a
plain, covered with a sacred wood ; several vistas were
cut through it, and all centered in a great circus,"Which
had been turned into a delightful garden. In the mid
dle of this garden there sprang a fountain, whose com
pliant waters took all the forms which art was pleased
to give^them. After many windings and turnings,
these crystal streams crept on to the declivity ofthe hill,
and there falling down in a rapid torrent from rock to
rock, frothed and foamed, and atlength lostthemselves hi
a deep river which ran at the foot of the sacred mount.
When the procession arrived at the place of sacrifice,
two sheep, white as snow, were led to the brink of the
fountain ; and while the priestess offered the victims:
The Travels of Cyrus 83
the choir of women struck their lyres, and the young
virgins joined their voices, singing this sacred hymn ;
" Oromazes is the first of incorruptible natures, eternal,
unbegotten, self-sufficient, of allthat's excellent most ex
cellent, the wisest of all intelligences ; he beheld himself
*in the mirror of his own substance, and by that view pro
duced the goddess Mythra, Mythra the living image of
his beauty, the original mother and the immortal virgin ;
she presented him the ideas of all things, and he gave
them to the god Mythras to form a world resembling
those ideas. Let us celebrate the wisdom of Mythra ;
let us do her homage by our purity and our virtues,
rather than by our songs and praises." During this
act of adoration, three times the music paused, to de
note, by a profound silence, that the divine nature
transcends whatever our words can express. The
hymn being ended, the priestess lighted by the rays of
the sun a fire of odoriferous wood, and while she there
consumed the hearts of the sheep, sang alone with a
loud voice, " Mythra desires only the soul of the vic
tim." Then the remainder of the sacrifice was drest
for a public feast, of which they all eat, sitting on the
brink of the sacred fountain, where they quenched their
thirst. During the repast, twelve young virgins sang
the sweets offriendship, the charms ofvirtue, the peacep
innocence, and simplicity of a rural life. m
After this regale, the mothers and daughters all as-
sembledupon a large green plot, encompassed with lofty
trees, whose shady tops and leafy branches were a de
fence against the scorching heat of the sun, and the
blasts of the north wind. Here they diverted them
selves with dancing, running, and concerts of music.
Then they represented the exploits of heroes, the virtues
84 The Travels of Cyrus.
of heroines, and the pure pleasures of the primeval
state, before Arimanius invaded the empire of Oroma-
zes, and inspired mortals with deceitful hopes, false
joys, perfidious disgusts, credulous suspicions, and the
inhuman extravagancies ofprofane love. These sports
being over, they dispersed themselves about the gar
den, and, by way of refreshment, bathed themselves in
the waters. Towards sun-set they descended the hill,
and joined the Magi, who led them to the mountain of
Oromazes, there to perform the evening sacrifice ; the
victims which were offered served every family for sup
per, (for they had two repasts on festival days) and
they cheerfully passed the time till sleepiness called
them to rest.
It was in this manner that Cassandana amused her
self, while Zoroaster was discovering to Cyrns all the
beauties of the universe, and thereby preparing his
mind for matters of a more exalted nature, the doc
trines of religion. The philosopher at length conduct
ed the prince, with Hystaspes and Araspes, into a
gloomy and solitary forest, where perpetual silence
reigned, and where the attention could not be diverted
by any sensible object, and then said, " It is not to en
joy the pleasures of solitude that we thus forsake the
society of men ; to retire from the world in that view,
would be only to gratify a trifling indolence, unworthy
the character of wisdom. But the aim of the magi in
this retreat, is to disengage themselves from matter,
rise to the contemplation of celestial things, and com
mence an intercourse with the pure spirits, who dis
cover to them all the secrets of nature. When mortals
have gained a complete victory over all the passions,
they are thus favored by the great Oromazes. It if?
The Travels of Cyrus. 85
however but a very small number of the most purified
sages who have enjoyed this privilege. Impose silence
upon your senses, raise your mind above all visible ob
jects, and listen to what the gymnosophists have learn
ed by their commerce with the genii." Here he was
silent for sometime, seemed to collect himself inwardly,
and then continued.
" In the spaces of the empyreum a pure and divine
fire expands itself ; by means ofwhich, not only bodies,
but spirits become visible. In the midst of this im
mensity is the great Oromazes, first principle of all
things. He diffuses himself every where ; but it is
there that he is manifested in a more glorious manner.
Near him is seated the god Mythras, or the second
spirit, and under him Psyche, or the goddess Mythra ;
around their throne, in the first rank, are the Jyngas,
the most sublime intelligences ; in the lower spheres
are an endless number ofgenii ofall the different orders.
" Arimanrus, chief of the Jyngas, aspired to an
equality with the god Mythras, and by his eloquence
persuaded all the spirits of his order to disturb the uni
versal harmony, and the peace of the heavenly mon
archy. How exalted soever the genii are, they are al
ways finite, and consequently may be dazzled and de
ceived. . Now the love of one's own excellence is the
most delicate and imperceptible kind ofdelusion. To
prevent the other genii from falling into the like crime,
and to punish those audacious spirits, Oromazes only
withdrew his rays, and immediately the sphere of Ari-
manius became a chaos and a perpetual night, in which
discord, hatred, confusion, anarchy and force alone
prevail. These ethereal substances would have eter
nally tormented themselves, if Oromazes had not miti
12
86 The Travels of Cyrix.
gated their miseries ; he is never cruel in his punish
ments, nor act? from a motive of revenge, for it is un
worthy of 1jis nature ; he hod compassion on their con
dition, and lent Mythras his power to dissipate the
chaos. Immediately the mingled and jarring atoms
were separated, the elements disentangled and ranged
in order. In the midst of the abyss was amassed to
gether an ocean of fire, which we now call the sun ;
its brightness is but obscurity, when compared with
that pure ether which illuminates the empyreum.
Seven globes of an opaque substance roll about this
flaming centre, to borrow its light. The seven genii,
who were the chief ministers and companions of Ari-
manius, together with all the inferior spirits ofhis order,
became the inhabitants of these new worlds, which the
Greeks call Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury,
the Moon, and the Eaith. The slothful, gloomy and
malicious genii, who love solitude and darkness, hate
society, and forever pine in a fastidious discontent, re-
retirad into Saturn. From hence flow all black and
mischievous projects, perfidious treasons, and murder
ous devices. In Jupiter dwell the impious and learn
ed genii, who broach monstrous errors, and endeavor
to persuade men that the universe is not governed by
an eternal wisdom ; that the great Oromazes is not a
luminous principle, but a blind nature, which by a
continual agitation within itself, produces an eternal
revolution of forms. In Mars are the genii who are
enemies of peace, and blow up every where the fire of
discord,' inhuman vengeance, implacable anger, dis
tracted ambition, false heroism, insatiable of conquer
ing what it cannot govern, furious dispute which seeks
dominion over the understanding, would oppress where
The Travels of Cyrus. 87
it cannot convince, and is more cruel in its transports
than all the other vices. Venus is inhabited by the
impure genii, whose affected graces and unbridled ap
petites are without taste, friendship, noble or tender
sentiments, or any other views than the enjoyments of
pleasures which engender the most fatal calamities.
In Mercury are the weak minds, ever in uncertainty,
who believe without reason, and doubt without reason ;
the enthusiasts and the free-thinkers, whose credulity
and incredulity proceed equally from a disordered im
agination. It dazzles the sight of some, so that they
see that which is not ; and it blinds others in such a
manner, that they see not that which is. In the Moon
dwell the humorsome, fantastic and capricious genii,
who will and will not, who hate at one time what they
love excessively at another ; and who, by a false deli
cacy of self-love, are ever distrustful of themselves, and
of their best friends.
" All these genii regulate the influence of the stars.
They are subject to the magi, whose call they obey,
and discover to them all the secrets of nature. These
spirits had been voluntary accomplices of Arimanius's
crime. There yet remained a number of all the seve
ral kinds who had been carried away through weak
ness, inadvertency, levity, and (if I may venture so to
speak) friendship for their companions. Of all the
genii, these' were of the most limited capacities, and
consequently the least criminal. Oroinazes had com
passion on them, and made them descend into mortal
bodies ; they retain no remembrance of their former state,
or of their ancient happiness ; it is from this number of
genii that the earth is peopled, and it is hence thatwe see
jieremiuds ofall characters. The god Mvthnis is iuces
88 The Travels of Cyrus.
santly employed to cure, purify andexaltthem, thatthey
may be capable of their first felicity. Those who follow
virtue, fly away after death into the empyreum, where
they are reunited to their origin. Those who debase
themselvesby vice, sink deeper and deeper into matter,
fall successively into the bodies of the meanest animals,
and run through a perpetual circle of new forms, till
they are purged of their crimes by the pains they un
dergo. The evil principle will confound every thing
for nine thousand years ; but at length there will come
a time, fixed by destiny, when Arimanius will be to
tally destroyed and exterminated, the earth will
change its form, universal harmony will be restored,
and men will live happy without any bodily want.
Until that time Oromazes reposes himself, and Mythras
combats ; this interval seems long to mortals, but, to
God, it is only as a moment of sleep."
Cyrus was seized with astonishment at the hearing
of these sublime things, and turning to Araspes, said to
him, What we have been taught hitherto of Oromazes,
Mythras and Arimanius, of the contention between the
good and the evil principle, of the revolutions which
have happened in the higher spheres, and of souls pre
cipitated into mortal bodies, was mixed with so many
absurd fictions, and wrapped up in such impenetrable
obscurity, that we looked upon those doctrines as vul
gar and contemptible notions unworthy of the eternal
Beiujr. I see now that we confounded the abuses of
those principles with the principles themselves, and
that a contempt for religion can proceed only from ig
norance. All flows out from the Deity, and all must
be absorbed in him again. I am then- a ray of light
emitted from its principle, and I am to return to it. O
.
The Travels of Cyrus. 89
Zoroaster, you put within me a new and inexhausti
ble source of pleasure; adversities may hereafter dis
tress me, but they will never overwhelm me ; all the
misfortunes of life will appear to me as transient
dreams ; all human grandeur vanishes ; I see nothing
great but to imitate immortals, that I may enter again
after death into their society. O my father, tell me by
what way it is that heroes reascend to the empyreum.
How joyful am I, replied Zoroaster, to see you relish
these truths ; you will one day have need of them.
Princes are sometimes surrounded by impious and pro
fane men, who reject every thing that would be a re
straint Upon their passions ; they will endeavor to
make you doubt of eternal Providence, from the mise
ries and disorders which happen here below ; they
know not the whole earth is but a single wheel of the
great machine ; their view is confined to a small cir
cle of objects ; and they see nothing beyond it ; yet
they will dispute and pronounce upon every thing ;
they judge ofnature, and of its Author, like a man born
in a deep cavern, who has never seen the beauties of
the universe, nor even the objects that are about him,
but by the faint light of a dim taper. Yes, Cyrus, the
harmony of the universe will be one day restored, and
you are destined to that sublime state of immortality ;
but you can rise to it only by virtue : and the great vir
tue for a prince is to make other men happy.
These discourses of Zoroaster made a strong impres
sion on the mind of Cyrus ; he would have stayed much
longer with the magi in their solitude, if his duty had
not called him back to his father's court. Scarce was
he returned thither, when every body perceived a won
derful change in his discourse and behavior. His con
90 The Travels of Cyrus.
versation with the Archimagus had stifled his rising
prejudices against religion. He gradually removed
from about him all the young Satrapes who were fond
ofthe principles of impiety. Upon looking nearly into
their characters, he discovered not only that their hearts
were corrupt, void ofall noble and generous sentiments,
and incapable offriendship, but that they were men of
very superficial understandings, full of levity, and lit
tle qualified for business. He then applied himself
chiefly to the study of the laws and of politics ; the oth
er sciences were but little cultivated in Persia. A sad
misfortune obliged him at length to leave his country
and travel ; Cassandana died, though in the flower of
her age, after she had brought him two sons and two
daughters.
None but those who have experienced the force of
true love, founded upon virtue, can imagine the dis
consolate condition of Cyrus. In losing Cassandana,
he lost all. Taste, reason, pleasure and duty had all
united to augment his passion for her. In loving her,
he had experienced all the charms of love, without
knowing either its pains, or the disgusts with which it
is often attended ; he felt the greatness of his loss, and
refused all consolation. It is not the sudden revolutions
in States, nor the heaviest strokes of adverse fortune,
which oppress the minds of heroes ; noble and gene
rous souls are little moved by any misfortunes, but
what concern the object of their softer passions. Cy
rus at first gave himselfwholly up to gtief, not to be al
leviated by weeping or complaining ; this silent sorrow
was at length succeeded by a torrent of tears. Man-
dane and Araspcs, who never left him, endeavored to
comfort him no other way than by weeping with him.
The Travels of Cyrus. 91
Reasoning and persuasion famish no cure fot grief ;
nor can friendship yield relief in affliction, but by shar
ing it. After he had long continued in this dejection,
he returned to see Zoroaster, who had formerly suffer
ed a misfortune of the same kind. The conversation
ofthat great man contributed much to modify the an
guish of his mind ; but it was only by degrees that he
recovered himself, and not till he had travelled for
some years.
THIRD ROOK.
THE empire of the Medes was at this time in a
profound peace. Cambyses being sensible of the dan*
ger to which he must expose his son, should he send
him again to the court of Ecbatana, and thinking that
Cyrus could not better employ the present season of
tranquility than in travelling to learn the manners, laws
and i 'ligions of other nations, he sent for him one day,
and said to him, You are destined by the great Oroma-
mazes to stretch your conquests over all Asia ; you
ought to put yourself into a condition to make those na
tions happy by your wisdom, which you shall subdue
by your valor. I design, therefore, that you shall trav
el into Egypt, which is the mother of the sciences; pass
thence into Greece, where are many famous republics;
go afterwards into Crete, to study the laws of Minos,
ard return at last by Babylon, that so you may bring
back to your own country all the kinds of knowledge
necessary to polish the minds of your subjects, and to
make you capable of accomplishing your high destiny.
Your stay in this place serves only to nourish your grief;
every object here quickens the melancholy remem
brance of your loss. Go, my son, go see and study hu
man nature under all its different forms ; this little cor
ner of the earth, which we call our country, is too small
and imperfect a picture to form thereby a true and ad
equate judgment of mankind.
Cyrus obeyed his father's orders, and very soon left
Persia, accompanied by his friend Araspes. Two faith-
in
The Travels of Cyrus. 93
ftil slaves were all his attendants, for he desired to trav
el unknown. He went down the river Agradatus, em
barked upon the Persian gulph, and soon arrived at
the port of Gerra, upon the coast of Arabia Felix.
Thence he continued his way towards the city of Ma-
corabia.* The serenity of the sky, the mildness of the
climate, the perfumes which embalmed the air, the va
riety, fruitfulness and smiling appearance of nature in
every part, charmed all his senses. While Cyrus was
unweariedly admiring the beauties of the country, he
saw a man walking with a grave and slow pace, and
who seemed buried in some profound thought. He
was already come near the prince without having per
ceived him. Cyrus interrupted his meditation, to ask
him the waw to Badeo, where he was to embark for
Egypt.
Amenophis (for that was his name) saluted the trav
ellers with great civility, and having represented to
them that the day was too far spent to continue their
journey, hospitably invited them to his rural habitation.
He led them through a by-way to a little hill not far
off. where he had formed with his own hands several
rustic grottos. A spring, which rose in the side of the
hill, watered with its stream a little garden at some
distance, and formed a rivulet, whose sweet murmur
was the only noise that was heard in this, abode of
peace and tranquility. Amenophis sat before his
guests some dried fruits of all sorts, the clear water
of the spring serving them for drink, and he enter
tained them with agreeable, conversation during:
his repasj. An unaffected and serene joy dwelt
* The present Mecca, a place which has ever been esteemed h9-
!y by t he Arabians.
13
94 The Travels of Cijus.
upon his countenance ; his discourse was full frt
good sense, and of noble sentiments, and he had all
the politeness of a man educated at the courts of kings.
Cyrus observing this, was curious to know the cause
of his retirement ; and in order to engage Amenophis
to the greater freedom, he discovered to him who he
was, and the design of his travels ; he then intimated
to him his desire, but with that modest respect which
one ought to have for the secret of a stranger. Amen
ophis understanding that his guest was the prince of
Persia, immediately received hopes of improving this
acquaintance to the advantage of his master Apries,
king of Egypt ; he made no' delay therefore to satisfy
the prince's curiosity, and endeavored to move him by
the history of his life and misfortunes, which he related
in the following manner :
" Though the family from which I am descended be
-one of the mostancient in Egypt,nevertheless, bythe vi
cissitude of human things, our branch of it fell into great
poverty. My father lived near Diospolis, a city of Up
per-Egypt, and cultivated his little paternal farm with
his own hands ; he bred me up to relish true pleasures
in the simplicity of a country life, to place my happi
ness in the study of wisdom, and to make agriculture,
hunting, and the liberal arts my sweetest occupations.
It was the custom of Apries, from time to time, to make
a progress through the different provinces of his king
dom. One day as he passed through a forest near the
place where I Lived, he perceived me under the shade
of a palm-tree, where I was reading the sacred books
of Hermes. I was then but sixteen years of age ; my
youth, and something in my air, drew the king's atten
tion ; he came up to me. asked me my name, my con
The Travels of Cyrus. 95
dition, and what I was reading ; being pleased with
my answers, and having my father's consent, he ordered
me to be conducted to his court, where he neglected
nothing in my education. The liking which A pries
had for me, ehanged by degrees into a .confidence,
which seemed to augment, in proportion as I advanced
in years ; and my heart was full of affection and grati
tude. Being young, and without experience, I thought
that princes were capable of friendship ; and I did not
know that the eods had refused them that sweet con-
solation.
" After having attended him in his wars against the
Sidonians and Cyprians, I became his only favorite ;
he communicated to me the most important secrets of
the state, and honored me with the chief posts about
his person. I never lost the remembrance of that ob
scurity from whence the king had drawn me. I did
not forget that I had been poor, and I was afraid of be
ing rich. Thus I preserved my integrity in the midst
of grandeur, and I went from time to time to see my
father in Upper-Egypt, of which I was governor. I
visited with pleasure the grove where Apries had found
me. Blest solitude ! said I within myself, where I first
learned the maxims of true wisdom ! How unhappy
shall I be, if I forget the innocence and simplicity of
my first years, when I felt no mistaken desires, and
was unacquainted with the objects that excite them.
I was often tempted to quit the court, and stay in this
charming solitude ; it was doubtless a pre-sentiment of
what was to happen to me, for Apries soon after sus
pected my fidelity.
" Amasis, who owed to me his fortune, endeavored
to inspire him with this distrust ;. he was a man of
96 The Travels of Cyrus.
mean birth, frnt great bravery ; he had all sorts of ta
lents, both natural and acquired, but the hidden senti
ments of bis heart were corrupt. When a man has wit
and parts, and esteems nothing sacred, it is easy for him
to gain the the favor of princes. Suspicion was far
from my heart ; I had no distrust of a man whom I had
loaded with benefits : and the more easily to betray
me, he concealed himself under the veil of a profound
dissimulation. Though I could not relish gross flatte
ry, I was not insensible to delicate praise ; Amasis
soon perceived my weakness, and artfully made his ad
vantage of it ; he affected a candor, a nobleness of soul,
and a disinterestedness which charmed me ; 'in a word,
he gained my confidence to such a degree, that he was
to me the same that I was to the king. I presented
him to Apries, as a man very capable of serving him ;
and it was not long- before he was allowed a free ac-
cess to the prince.
" The king had great qualities, but he would govern
by his arbitrary will ; he had already freed himself
from all subjection to the laws, and hearkened n« lon
ger to the counsel of the thirty judges. My love for
truth would not always suffer me to follow the rules of
strict prudence, and my attachment to the king led me
often to speak to him in too strong terms, and with too
little management. I perceived by degrees his cold
ness to me, and the confidence he was beginning to
have in Ama&is. Far from being alarmed at it, I re
joiced at the rise of a man whom I thought not only my
friend, but zealous for the public good. Amasis often
said to me, with a seemingly sincere concern, I can
taste no pleasure in the prince's favor, since you are
The Travels of Cyrus. 97
deprived of it. No matter, answered I, who does the
good, provided it be done.
" About this time all the principal cities ofUpper-E
gypt addressed their complaints to me upon the extraor
dinary subsidies which the king exacted ; and I wrote
circular letters to pacify the people. Amasis caused
these letters to be intercepted ; and counterfeiting ex
actly my hand-writing, sent others in my name to the
inhabitants of Diospolis, my native city, in which he
told them, that if I could not gain the king by persua
sion, I would put myself at their head, and oblige him
to treat them with more humanity. These people were
naturally inclined to rebellion ; and believing that I
was the author of those letters, imagined they were in
a secret treaty with me. Amasis carried on this cor
respondence in my name for several months. At
length, thinking that he had sufficient proofs, he went
and threw himself at the prince's feet, laid open to him
the pretended conspiracy, and shewed him the forged
letters.
" I was immediately arrested, and put into a close
prison ; the day was fixed when 1 was to be executed
in a public manner. Amasis came to see me ; at first
he seemed doubtful and uncertain what he should think,
suspended in his judgment by the knowledge he had
of my virtue, yet shaken by the evidence of the proofs,
and much affected with my misfortune. After having
discoursed with him some time, he seemed convinced
of my innocence, promised me to speak to the prince,
and to endeavor to discover the authors of the treach
ery. The more effectually to accomplish his black de
signs, he went to the king, and by faintly endeavor
ing to engfige him to pardon me, made him believe
98 77/e Travels of Cyrus.
that he acted more from gratitude and compassion for
a man to whom he owed all, than from a conviction
of my innocence. Thus he artfully confirmed him in
the persuasion of my being criminal ; and the king- be
ing naturally suspicious, was inexorable.
" The report of my perfidiousness being spread
throughout all Egypt, the people of the different prov
inces flocked to Sais, to see the tragical spectacle
which was preparing ; but when the fatal day came,
several of my friends appeared at the head of a nume
rous crowd, and delivered me by force from the death
which was ordained me. The king's troops made
some resistance at first, but the multitude increased,
and declared for me. It was then in my power to have
caused the same revolution which Amasis has done
since ; nevertheless, I made no other use of this happy
conjuncture, than to justify myself to Apries. I sent
one of my deliverers to assure him, that his injustice
did not make me forget my duty, and that my only de
sign was to convince him ofmy innocence. He ordered
me to come to him at his palace ; winch I might safe
ly do, the people being under arms and surrounding it.
I found Amasis with him. This perfidious man, con
tinuing his dissimulation, ran to meet me with eager
ness, and, presenting me to the king, How joyful am I,
said he to him , to see that the conduct of Amenophis
leaves you no room to doubt of his fidelity ! I see very
well, answered Apries coldly, that he does not aspire
to the throne, and I forgive him his desire of bounding
my authority, in order to please his countrymen. I
answered the king, that I was innocent of the crime im
puted to me, and was ignorant of the author of it.
Amasis then endeavored to make the suspicion fall
The Travels of Cyras. 99
upon the king's best friends, and most faithful servants.
I perceived that the prince's mind was not cured of his
distrust, and therefore, to prevent any new accusa
tions, having first persuaded the people to disperse
themselves, I retired from court, and returned to my
former solitude, whither I carried nothing back but my
innocence and poverty. Apries sent troops to Dios-
polis, to prevent any insurrection there, and ordered
that my conduct should be observed. Doubtless he
imagined, that I should never be able to confine myself
to a quiet and retired life, after having been in the high
est employments. In the mean while Amasis gained
an absolute ascendant over the king's mind ; this fa
vorite made him suspect aud banish his best friends,
in order to remove from about the throne those who
might hinder the usurpation which he was projecting.
An occasion very soon offered to put his wicked de
signs in execution.
" The Cyrenians, a colony of Greeks who were set
tled in Africa, having taken from the Lybi ;ns a great
part of their lands, the latter submitted themselves to
Apries, in order to obtain his protection. The king of
Egypt sent a great army into Lybia, to make war a-
gainst the Cyrenians. This army, in which were many
of those malcontents whom Amasis was solicitous to
remove from court, being cut to peices, the Egyptians
imagined that the king had sent it thither only to be
destroyed, that he might reign the more despotically.
This thought provoked them, and a league was formed
in Lower Egypt, which rose up in arms-. The king sent
Amasis to them, to make them return to their duty ; and
then it was that the designs of this perfidious minister
broke out. Instead of pacifying them, he inceused
100 The Travels of Cyrus.
them more and more, put himself at their head, and
was proclaimed king. The revolt became universal ;
Apries was obliged to leave Sais, and make his escape
into Upper-Egypt. He retired to Diospolis, where I
prevailed upon the inhabitants to forget the injustice he
had done them, and to succor him in his misfortunes.
All the time that he continued there, I had free access
to his person ; but I carefully aveided saying any thing
which might recal to his mind the disgrace he had made
me undergo.
" Apries soon fell into a deep melancholy ; that
haughty spirit which had been so vain as to imagine it
was not in the power of the gods themselves to dethrone
him, could not support adversity ; that prince, so re
nowned for his bravery, had not true fortitude of soul ;
he had a thousand and a thousand times despised death,
but he could not contemn fortune. 1 endeavored to
calm and support his mind, and to remove from it those
melancholy ideas which overwhelmed him. I frequent
ly read to him the books of Hermes. He was particu
larly struck with that famous passage: " When the
great Osiris loves princes, he pours into the cup of fate
a mixture of good and ill, that they may not forget that
they are men." These reflections alleviated by degrees
his vexations ; and I felt an unspeakable pleasure in
seeing that he began to relish virtue, and it gave him
inw.trd peace in the midst of his misfortunes. He then
applied himself with vigor and courage, to get ont of
the unhappy situation into which he was fallen. He
got together all his faithful subjects who had followed
him in his exile ; and these, being joined with the in
habitants of the country, whom I enaaoed in his scr-
vice, formed an army of fifteen thousand men. We
The Travels of Cyrus. 101
marched against the usurper, and gave him battle near
Memphis; but being overpowered by the enemy's
numbers, we were entirely defeated. Apries escaped
to the mountains of Upper-Egypt, with the remains of
his shattered troops ; but as for me, I was taken with a
crowd of other prisoners, and without being known,
confined in a high tower at Memphis. When Amasis
had put garrisons in all the cities of Upper-Egypt, and
given directions to guard the passes into the mountains,
in order to shut up Apries there, and destroy him by
famine, he returned in triumph to Sais.
" The usurper, by the favor and protection of Nab-
uchodonosor king of Babylon, was soon after solemnly
crowned, but on condition that Egypt should be tribu
tary to that conqueror. Scarce were the people quiet
ed, when they gave way to that inconstancy which is
natural to the multitude ; they began to despise the
new king for his mean birth, and to murmur against
him. But this able politician successfully made use of
his address to pacify them, and prevent a revolt. The
kings of Egypt were wont to invite their courtiers to
solemn feasts, and on these occasions the guests wash
ed their hands with the king in a golden cistern kept al
ways for that use ; Amasis caused this cistern to be
made into a statue of Serapis, and exposed it to be wor
shipped. He was overjoyed to see with what eager
ness the people ran from all parts to pay their homage
to it ; and having assembled the Egyptians, harrang-
ued them in the following manner : " Hearken to me,
countrymen ; this statue, which you now worship,
served you heretofore for the meanest uses ; thus it is
that all depends upon your choice and opinion ; all au
thority resides originally in the people ; you are the ab
14
102 The Travels of Cyrus.
solute arbiters of religion and of royalty, and create
both your gods and your kings : I set you free from the
idle fears both of the one and of the other, by letting
you know your just rights : all men are born equal ; it
is your will alone which makes a distinction ; when
you are pleased to raise any one to the highest rank,
he ought not to continue in it, but because it is your
pleasure, and so long only as you think fit. I hold my
authority from you alone ; you may take it back and
give it to another who will make you more happy than
I : Shew me that man, and I shall immediately de
scend from the throne, and with pleasure mix among
the multitude."
" Amasis, by this impious harangue, which flatter
ed the people, solidly established his own authority ;
they conjured him to remain upon the throne, and he
seemed to consent to it, as doing them a favor. He
is adored by the Egyptians, whom he governs with
mildness and moderation ; good policy requires it, and
his ambition is satisfied. He lives at Sais in a splen
dor which dazzles those who approach him ; nothing
seems wanting to his happiness. But I am assured,
that inwardly he is far different from what he appears
outwardly ; he thinks that every man about him is like
himself, and would betray him as he betrayed his mas
ter ; these continual distrusts hinder him from enjoying
the fruit of his crime, and it is thus that the gods pun
ish him for his usurpation. Cruel remorses rend his
heart, and dark gloomy cares hang upon his brow ;
the anger of the great Osiris pursues him every where ;
the splendor of royalty cannot make him happy, be
cause he never tastes either peace of mind, or that gen
erous confidence in the friendship of men, which is the
sweetest charm of life."
The Travels of Cyrus, K>3
Amenophis was going on with his story, when Cy
rus interrupted it, to ask him how Amasis could get
such an ascendant over the mind of Apries? " The
king, replied Amenophis, wanted neither talents nor
virtues ; but he did not love to be contradicted ; even
when he ordered his ministers to tell him the truth, he
never forgave those who obeyed him ; he loved flattery
while he affected to hate it ; Amasis perceived this
weakness, and managed it with art. When Apries
made any difficulty ofgiving into the despotic maxims
which that perfidious minister would have inspired
him with, he insinuated to the king, that the multitude,
being incapable of reasoning, ought to be governed by
absolute authority ; and that princes, being the vice
gerents of the gods, may act like them, without giving
a reason for their conduct. He seasoned his counsels
with so many seeming principles of virtue, and such
delicate praise, that the prince being seduced, made
himselfhated by his subjects without perceiving it."
Here Cyrus, touched with this melancholy account
of an unfortunate king, could not forbear saying to
Amenophis, Methinks Apries is more to be pitied than
blamed. How should princes be able to discover
treachery, when it is concealed with so much art ?
The happiness of the people, answered Amenophis,
makes the happiness ofthe prince ; their true interests
are necessarily united, whatever pains are taken to
separate them. Whosoever attempts to inspire prin
ces with contrary maxims, ought to be looked upon as
anenemy ofthe state. Moreover, kings oughtalways to
be apprehensive of a man who never contradicts them,
and who tells them only such truths as are agreeable.
There needs no farther proof of the corruption of a
104 The Travels of Cyrus.
minister, than to see him prefer his master's favor to
his glory. In short, a prince should know how to make
advantages of his ministers' talents, but he ought never
to follow their counsels blindly ; he may lend himself,
but not yield himselfup absolutely to them.
Ah ! how unhappy, cried out Cyrus, is the condition
of kings! you say they must only lend themselves to
men, they must not give themselves up without reserve
to them ; they will never then be acquainted with the
charms of friendship. How much is my situation to
be lamented, if the splendor of royalty be incompati
ble with the greatest of all felicities ? When a prince,
replied Amenophis, whom nature has endowed with
amiable qualities, does not forget that he is a man, he
may find friends who will not forget that he is a king.
But even then, he ought never to be influenced by per
sonal inclination in affairs of state. As a private man,
he may enjoy the pleasures of a tender friendship ; but
as a prince, he must resemble the immortals who have
no passion.
After these reflections, Amenophis, at the request of
Cyrus, continued his story in the following manner :
" I was forgotten for some years in my prison at Mem
phis. My confinement was so close, that I had neither
the conversation, nor the sight of any person ; being
thus left in solitude, and without the least comfort I suf
fered the cruel torments of tiresome loneliness. Man
finds nothing within himself but a frightful void, which
renders him utterly disconsolate ; his happiness pro
ceeds only from those amusements which hinder him
from feeling his natural insufficiency. I ardently de
sired death, but I respected the gods, and durst not pro
cure it myself ; because I was persuaded that those
who gave me life had the sole right to take it away.
The Travels of Cyrus. 105
" One day, when I was overwhelmed with the most
melancholy reflections, I heard of a sudden, a noise, as
if somebody was breaking a way through the wall of
my prison. It was a man who endeavored to make
his escape ; and in a few days he had made the hole
wide enough to get into my chamber. This prisoner,
though a stranger, spoke the Egyptian tongue perfect
ly well : he informed me, that he was ofTyre, his name
Arobal ; that he had served in Apries's army, and had
been taken prisoner at the same time with me. I never
saw a man of a more easy, witty, and agreeable con
versation ; he delivered himself with sajut, delicacy
and gracefulness. When he repeated therome things,
there was always something new and charming in the
manner. We related to each other our adventures and
misfortunes. The pleasure which I found in the conver
sation of this stranger, made me forget the loss ofmy lib
erty, and I soon contracted an intimate friendship with
him. At length we were both brought out of prison, but
it was only to undergo new sufferings ; for we were con
demned to the mines. And now we had no longer any
hopes of freedom but in death. Friendship however
softened our miseries, and we preserved courage enough
to create ourselves amusements, even in the midst of
misfortunes, by observing the wonders hidden in the
bowels of the earth.
" The mines * are of a prodigious depth and extent,
and are inhabited by a kind of subterraneous republic,
whose members never see the day. They have never
theless their polity, laws, government, families, houses
* The present mines of Vilisca, five miles from Cracow, resem
ble those which are here described.
106 The Travels of Cyrus.
and highways, horses to assist them in their labors,
and cattle to feed them. There one may behold im
mense arches, supported by rocks of salt hewn into the
shape of pillars. The salts are white, blue, green, red,
and ofall colors, so that an infinite number of lamps,
hanging against these huge pillars, form a lustre which
dazzlesthe eyes, like thatofdiamonds, rubies, emeralds,
sapphires, and all precious stones. What seems in
credible, a rivulet of fresh water flows through these
salt mines, and furnishes drink to the inhabitants.
This water is distributed into canals, cascades, basons
and reservatepes, to adorn these places where the sun
never shinesyandto be made use ofin the works which
are here carried on.
" After some years hard and painful labor we were
appointed masters of the slaves. I had read the books
ofHermes, knew his whole doctrine about the mysteries
of nature, and had been instructed in the occult scien
ces. We applied ourselves to study those wonders by
experiments ; to descend from known effects to those
which are more hid, and to re-ascend from thence to
first causes. When we had examined, compounded
and decompounded bodies of all kinds that are found
in those subterraneous regions, we at last discovered,
that in the visible universe there were but two princi
ples, the one active, the other passive ; an elementary-
fire, uniform, universal, and infinitely subtile, and an
original virgin earth, which is hard, solid, and the sub
stance of all bodies.
" Before Typhon broke the egg of the world, and
introduced the evil principle there, the ethereal matter
penetrated all the parts of the virgin earth ; by com
pressing some of them, it gave compactness to solids,
The Travels of Cyrus. 107
and by making others of them float, produced liquids ;
the former were the canals through which the latter
flowed, in order to an universal and regular circulation
in all the parts of the universe ; the waters inclosed in
the centre of the earth, not only perspired through its
pores and supplied that moisture which is necessary to
vegetation, but sprang out in fountains, whose united
streams flowed in rivers, great and small, to beautify
the face of nature. The inward constitution of bodies
was then visible, because every thing was luminous or
transparent ; the earth receiving or reflecting the rays
of light, produced the agreeable variety of colors, and
there was nothing; dark or dazzling.
" After the fall of spirits, and the revolt of Typhon,
this beautiful order was destroyed. The active princi
ple, which bound together all the parts of our globe,
withdrawing itself, the waters burst forth from their
abyss, and overflowedthe face of the earth ; the common
mass was totallydissolved, itwasall a dark chaos, and an
universal confusion. The goddess Isis, beholding the
ruin of her work, resolved to repair it, yet without res
toring it to its first perfection. She laid the plan of a
new world, very different indeed from the former, but
such a one as was proper to be the habitation of de
graded spirits. She spake ; nature obeyed her voice,
and the shapeless chaos took, a form ; yet so, as that
art and seeming chance, light and darkness, order and
confusion, were mingled throughout. The earth was
now opaque, ugly and irregular, like the intelligences
that inhabit it. Diamonds, rubies, emeralds, and the
other precious stones, are but the ruins of the primitive
earth, which was all composed of such materials.
Some say that the chaos happened a long time before
108 T/ie Travels of Cyrus.
the deluge, that the first ensued upon the fall of the ge
nii, and that the other was the punishment of the orimes
of men. Be that as it will, we have every where con
vincing proofs of the universal dissolving* of the com
mon mass. We find in the inmost bowels of the earth,
in mines and upon the highest mountains, fishes, birds,
and all sorts of animals which floated in the water, and
are petrified since that inundation.
" At present all the fluids and solids result from the
irregular combination of the active and passive princi
ple, and it is the philosopher's province to discover the
laws of thjfoeneral combination. One may consider
the particles of the pure elementary fire as invisible
points, and those of the earth as lines, as surfaces, or as
grosser corpuscles ; when the etherial matter sticks to
those terrestrial particles that are long and pointed, it
produces spears, darts, and winged arrows, which are
the principles of salts ; when it brings together, unites
and compresses several surfaces, and penetrates them
without being absorbed in them, it engenders the prin
ciples of crystals ; when it is imprisoned in the cavities
of opaque corpuscles, it forms sponges of fire, or the
principles of sulphurs ; and hence result the first ele
ments of all solids. When the terrestrial particles
float in the ethereal matter, and wear themselves round
by rubbing against one another, these invisible spheres
become the principles of all fluids ; little balls of mer
cury when they are opaque and heavy, drops of water
when they are transparent and light, bubbles of air
when they are endued with elasticity, by the incessant
* Dr. Woodward's system is very ancient, and is to be found
^imong the Abyssinians. See Patrilio delta Hhetoricayfi. 7.
The Travels of Cyrus. 109
egress and regress ofthe ethereal matter through their
pores.
" From the combination of these three solids, and
three fluids, which are not themselves simple, but com
pounded, all other bodies are engendered. The mix
ture of sulphur without mercury, makes the basis of
metals, which are more or less pure, as there are more
or less of the terrestrial particles in their composition.
Precious stones are formed by the incorporating
of metals with crystal ; gold makes rubies, mer
cury diamonds, copper emeralds. The grosser
and more irregular particles of earth, |}rhen cement
ed by water, constitute the opaque and common
stones. Lastly, sulphurs, salts, mercury and earth,
blended together in one common mass, without rule or
proportion, produce minerals, halfmetals, and all kinds
of fossils ; while the more subtile and volatile parts be
ing diluted with water and air, turn into liquors and
vapor? of all sorts.
" We frequently amused ourselves with imitating
these operations of nature, dissolving solids, fixing li
quids, and then reducing them to their first forms ; with
mixing sulphurs, salts and minerals together, in order
to make them ferment, we thereby engendered exhala
tions, clouds, winds, thunder, and all sorts of meteors ;
with making transparent bodies opaque, and opaque
bodies transparent ; with suddenly changing colors in
to their opposites, by barely mixing with them certain
fluids that have no color. Being thus entertained with
the sports of nature and art, we were beginning to
make ourselves tolerably easy under our misfortunes,
when heaven restored us to liberty, by a stroke equally
terrible and unexpected.
16
110 The Travels of Cyrus.
" The subterraneous fires sometimes break their
prison with a violence that seems to shake nature even
to its foundation ; like the thunder which bursts the
clouds, vomiting out flames; and filling the air with its
roarings. We frequently felt those terrible convul
sions. One day the shocks redoubled, the earth seem
ed to groan, and we expected nothing but death, when
the impetuous fires opened a passage into a spacious
cavern, and that which seemed to threaten us with a
loss of life procured us liberty. We walked a long
time by the light of our lamps, before we saw the day ;
but at length jfee subterraneous passage ended at an
old temple, which we knew, by the bas-reliefs upon the
altar, to have been consecrated to Osiris. We pros
trated ourselves, and adored the divinity of the place ;
we had no victims to offer, nor any thing wherewith to
make libations ; but instead of all sacrifices, we made
a solemn vow, forever to love virtue.
" This temple was situated near the Arabian gulf.
We embarked in a vessel which was bound for Muza,
landed there, crossed a great part of Arabia Felix, and
at length arrived in this solitude. The gods seem to
have concealed the most beautiful places of the earth,
from those who know not how to prize a life of peace
and tranquillity. We found men in these woods and
forests, of sweet and humane dispositions, full of truth
and justice. We soon made ourselves famous amongst
them. Arobal taught them how to draw the bow, and
throw the javelin to destroy the wild beasts which rav
aged their flocks ; I instructed them in the laws of
Hermes, and cured their diseases by the help of sim
ples. They looked upon us as divine men ; and we
every day admired the motions of beautiful nature,
r -
The Travels of Cyrus. Ill
which we observed in them ; their unaffected joy, their
ingenuous simplicity, and their affectionate gratitude.
We then saw that great cities and magnificent courts
have only served too much to corrupt the manners and
sentiments of mankind ; and that by uniting a multi
tude of men in the same place they often do but unite
and multiply their passions. We thanked the gods for
our being undeceived with regard to those false plea
sures, and even false virtues, both political and military
which self love has introduced into numerous societies,
and which only serve to delude men, and to make them
slaves to their ambition. But, alas ! how inconstant
are human things ! how weak is the mind of man !
Arobal, that virtuous, affectionate, and generous friend
who had supported imprisonment with so much cour
age, and slavery with so much resolution, could not
content himself with a simple and uniform life. Hav
ing a genius for war, he sighed after great exploits ;
and being more a philosopher in speculation than in re
ality, confessed to me, that he could no longer bear the
calm of retirement ; he left me, and I have never seen
him since.
" I seem to myself a being left alone upon the earth.
Apries persecuted me, Amasis betrayed me, Arobal
forsakes me ; I find every where a frightful void. I
experience that friendship, the greatest of all felicities,
is hard to be met with ; passions, frailties, a thousand
contrarieties either cool it or disturb its harmony.
Men love themselves too mucli to love a friend well.
1 know them now, and I cannot esteem them ; how
ever, I do not hate men ; I have a sincere benevolence
for them, and would do them good without hope
of recompense. Whilst Amenophis was speaking,
1 12 Tlie Travels of Cyrus.
one might see upon the prince's countenance the
different sentiments and passions, which these va
rious events would naturally raise in a generous mind.
The Egyptian having finished the relation of his mis-
fbi tunes, Cyrus asked him, whether he knew what
was become ofApries ? Amenophis answered, lam in
formed that the king is yet alive, and that after having
wandered a long time in the mountains, he has at
length got together an army of Carians and Ionians,
who, during his reign, and by his permission, settled
in Upper-Egypt, and has made himself master of the
city of Diospglis.
Cyrus then said to the Egyptian, I admire the con
stancy and courage with which you have sustained the
shocks of fortune, but I cannot approve of your re
maining in this inaction. It is not lawful to enjoy re
pose, so long as we are in a condition to labor for the
good of our country. Man is not born for himself
alone, but for society ; Egypt has still need of your as
sistance, and the gods present you a new opportunity
ofbeing useful to her. Why do you continue a mo
ment in this solitude ? An ordinary virtue is disheart
ened by ill success and adverse fortune, but heroic vir
tue is never discouraged. Let us fly to the assistance
of Apries, and deliver him from the oppression of an
usurper. Amenophis, to increase the ardor of Cyrus,
seemed very unwilling at first to return to Egypt, and
suffered himself to be long entreated before he yielded
to the prince's solicitations.
Cyrus, before he left Arabia, dispatched couriers to
Nabuchodonosor king of Babylon, who had married
Amitis, the sister ofMandane, to solicit his uncle in fa
vor ofApries ; then, having concerted with Amenophis
The Travels of Cyrus. 1 13
all the necessary measures to make their designs suc
ceed, they set out together, crossed the country of the
Sabeans with great expedition, soon arrived upon the
shore of the Arabian gulf, and embarked for Egypt.
Cyrus was surprised to find here a new kind of beauty
which he had not seen in Arabia ; there, all was the
effect of simple nature, but here, every thing was im
proved by art.
It seldom rains in Egypt ; but the Nile, by its regu
lar overflowings, supplies it with the rains and melted
snows of other countries. This river, by the means of
an infinite number of canals, made a communication be
tween the cities, joined the great sea with the Red Sea,
and thus promoted both foreign and domestic com
merce. The cities of Egypt were numerous, large,
well peopled, full of magnificent temples and stately
palaces. They rose like islands in the midst of the wa
ters, and overlooked the plains, which appeared all
fruitful, gay and smiling. There one might see ham
lets neat and commodious, villages sweetly situated,
pyramids that served for the sepulchres of great men,
and obelisks which contained the history of their ex
ploits. Agriculture, the mechanic arts and commerce,
which are the three supports of a State, flourished ev
ery where, and procl imed a laborious and rich people,
as well as a prudent, steady, and mild govei nment.
The prince of Persia could take but a cursory view
of these things in the haste he was in to get to Diospo-
lis, where he joined the army of Apries. The king,
touched with the generosity of Cyrus, embraced bim
affectionately, and then said to him, looking at the same
time upon Amenophis, Prince let my example teach
you to know men, and to love those who have the hon
114 The Travels of Cyrus.
esty and courage to tell you truth when it is disagreea
ble. The presence ofthe young hero revived the hopes
ofApries, and that of Amenophis contributed much to
augment his army ; it soon increased to the number of
thirty thousand men. The two princes, accompanied
by Amenophis and Araspes, left Diospolis, marched
against the usurper, and came in sight of his army,
which was strongly encamped near Memphis.
Apries was a prince ofgreat experience in the art of
war, and was thoroughly acquainted with the country ;
he seized all the advantageous posts, and pitched his
camp over against that of Amasis. The usurper, not
imagining that the king of Egypt could haAre got to
gether such a numerous body of troops in so short a
time, had marched from Sais with only twenty thousand
men. When Apries had in person taken a view ofthe
enemy, and had discovered that they were much infe
rior in number, he resolved to attack them in their
camp. The next day Cyrus and Araspes, at the head
often thousand Carians, forced the advanced guards of
Amasis, and approached his lines ; and being soon af
ter joined by Apries and Amenophis, broke through
the intrenchments, and vigorously attacked the Egyp
tians ; the engagement was bloody, and the victory for
a long time doubtful. Cyrus, impatient to finish the
battle by some remarkable exploit, put himself at the
head of a choice body of cavalry, sought every where
for Amasis, and found him. The usurper being a
brave general, as well as an able politician, was flying
from rank to rank, encouraging some, and hindering
others from running away. Cyrus lanced his javelin
at him, crying out, Tyrant, it is time to put an end to
thy crimes and thy usurpation. The javelin pierced
The Travels of Cyrus. 115
the cuirass of Amasis, and entered his body ; a stream
of blood flowed from his wound ; furious as a wild
boar pierced by the hunter's spear, he came up to Cy
rus with his drawn sabre, and raising his arm, Rash
youth, he cried, receive the reward of thy audacious
ness : the prince of Persia avoided the blow ; but when
he would have taken his revenge, he found himself sur
rounded by a troop of young Egyptians, who came to
the relief of Amasis. Then Cyrus, like a young lion
just robbed of his prey, made himself a passage through
the enemy ; every blow he gave was mortal ; he de
fended himself a long time, but was at last ready to be
everpowered, when Amenophis came to his succor,
and then the battle was renewed. Amasis, notwith
standing his wound, did not quit the field, but raised
the drooping courage of his men, and made Cyrus ad
mire both his bravery and conduct. Night at length
put an end to the action ; Apries remained master of
the field, yet Amasis retired in good order with his
troops, repassed the Nile, and gained the neighboring
mountains ; the passes into these mountains were nar
row and difficult, and he resolved therefore to continue
in this secure post, till he was recovered of his wounds,
and had reinforced his army.
Apries took advantage of the enemy's inaction to
make himselfmaster of Memphis, which he carried by
assault in a few days. Upon this Amasis, without wait
ing till he was perfectly cured, got together, with in
credible expedition, an army of fifty thousand men,
and gave a second battle. As Apries' troops were
already much weakened, the usurper overpowered
them by numbers, and took the king of Egypt prisoner.
Cyrus, Araspes, and Amenophis, fearing to be sur
116 Vie Travels of Cyrus.
rounded, retired with the bravest of the Carian and
Ionian troops to the city of Memphis ; those who did
follow them, were either put to the sword, or made
prisoners of war.
Amasis understanding who the young hero was that
wounded him, was apprehensive of his credit at the
court ofBabylon, and dispatched couriers thither ; till
their return he contented himself with blocking up the
city, and retired with the greatest part of his army to
Sais, whither he likewise conducted the captive king.
Amasis paid him great honors for some days : and in
order to sound the inclinations of the people, proposed
to them the replacing him on the throne, but at the
same time secretly formed a design of taking away his
life. The Egyptians were all earnest to have the prince
put to death : Amasis yielded him to their pleasure ;
he was strangled in his own palace ; and the unfortu
nate remains of the royal family were massacred the
same d ly. Cyrus heard with grief the melancholy
news of the fate of Apries, and understood at the same
time by the return of the couriers the disposition of Na-
buchoilonosor. This conqueror sent Cyrus word to
abandon Apries to his fate, but commanded Amasis to
obey the orders of the prince of Persia. Cyrus sighed
within himself, and could not forbear saying, I fear that
the gods will one day severely punish Nabuchodonosov
for his insatiable thirst of dominion, and above all, re
venge upon him his protection of Amasis.
As soon as the usurper understood the king of Baby
lon's pleasure, he ordered his troops to retire from be
fore Memphis, and set out in person from Sais to wait
upon the prince ofPersia. He advanced towards Mem
phis with all his court, but Cyrus refused to see him;
The Travels of Cyrus. 117
and only wrote him this letter ; " The faults of Apries
are punished by the crimes of Arnasis ; it is thus that
the just gods sport with mortals, and seem to leave
crowns to the disposal of chance. Thy day will come ;
in the mean time I send Amenophis to declare to thee
my will and pleasure. Hadst thou any feeling of virtue,
the sight of him alone would overwhelm thee with re
proaches, that I disdain to make thee."
Amenophis, followed by some Carians, hastened to
meet Amasis, and found him not many furlongs from
Memphis. He was surrounded by all the chief men of
Egypt ; it was an assembly of old courtiers, who had
betrayed Apries through ambition, and of young men
corrupted by pleasure. Amenophis approached Ama
sis with a resolute, noble, and modest air, and deliver
ed him Cyrus's letter ; the usurper read it, and im
mediately a dark cloud overspread his face ; the re
membrance of his crimes confounded him, and struck
him dumb ; he endeavored to summon up all his con
fidence, but in vain ; he cast a look upon Amenophis,
yet without daring to fix his eyes upon him ; shame
and remorse were succeeded by rage and indignation,
but the dread of Cyrus forced him to dissemble ; la
boring under the conflict of so many different passions,
he turned pale and trembled ; he would have spoken,
but utterance failed him. It is thus that vice, even
when triumphant, cannot support the presence of vir
tue, though in adversity and disgrace. Amenophis
perceived his confusion and perplexity, and only said
to him, It is the will of Cyrus that all the prisoners of
war be set at liberty, and be suffered, together with the
troops that are in Memphis, to return to their former
habitations in Upper-Egypt, and to live there without
16
118 The Travels of Cyrus.
molestation. O Amasis ! I have nothing to demand of
thee for myself; the present dispositions of my soul
will not suffer me to put thee in mind of my former
affection, and thy ingratitude ! May'st thou one day
see the beauty of virtue, repent of having forsaken her,
and divert the anger of Heaven which threatens thee.
This said, he retired, and left Amasis covered with
shame and confusion ; he hastened back to Memphis,
and the usurper returned to Sais, after he had given
orders to put Cyrus's commands in execution. From
this time to his death, Amasis was always* plunged in
a gloomy sadness.
Cyrus seeing the war at an end, applied himself to
learn the history, polity and laws of- ancient Egypt.
He stayed some time at Memphis, and conversed every
day with the priests of this city, in presence of Ameno-
phis and Araspes. He found that the Egyptians had
composed their history of an almost unbounded suc
cession of ages ; but that the fictions with which they
had filled their annals about the reign of Ammon, Os
iris, Isis and Orus, were only allegories to express the
first state of souls before the great change which hap
pened upon the revolt of Typhon. They believed, that
after the origin of evil, their country was the least dis
figured and the soonest inhabited of any. Their first
king was named Menes ; and their history from his
reign is reduced to three ages ; the first, which reach
es to the time of the shepherd-kings, takes in eight
hundred years ; the second, from the shepherd-kings
to Sesostris, five hundred ; the third, from Sesostris to
Amasis, contains more than seven centuries.
During the first age, Egypt was divided into several
dynasties or governments, which had each its king.
The Travels of Cyrus. 1 19
She had then no foreign commerce, but confined her,
self to agriculture, and a pastoral life ; shepherds were
heroes, and kings philosophers. In those days lived
the first Hermes, who penetrated into all the secrets of
nature and divinity; it was the age of occult sciences:
The Greeks, say the Egyptians, imagine that the world
in its infancy was ignorant ; but they think so, only be
cause they themselves are always children : they knew
nothing of the origin of the world, its antiquity, and
the revolutions which have happened in it. The men
of Mercury's time had yet a remembrance of the reign
of Osiris, and had divers traditional lights which we
have lost. The arts ofimitation, poetry, music, paint
ing every thing within the province of the imagination,
are but sports of the mind, in comparison of the sub
lime sciences known by the first men. Nature was
then obedient to the voice of the sages ; they could put
all its hidden springs in motion ; they produced the
most amazing prodigies whenever they pleased ; the
serial genii were subject to them; they had frequent
intercourse with the ethereal spirits, and sometimes
with the pure intelligences that inhabit the empyreum.
We have lost, said the priests to Cyrus, this exalted
kind of knowledge. We have only remaining some
traces of it upon our ancient obelisks, which may be
called the registers of our divinity, mysteries, and tra
ditions relating to the Deity, and to nature, and in no
wise the annals of our civil history, as the ignorant im
agine.
The second age was that of the shepherd-kings, who
came from Arabia ; they overran Egypt with an army
of two hundred thousand men. The ignorance and
stupidity of these uncivilized Arabians occasioned the
120 The Travels of Cyrus.
sublime and occult sciences to be despised and for
gotten ; their imagination could receive nothing but
what was material and sensible. From their time the
genius of the Egyptians was entirely changed, and
turned to the study of architecture, war, and all those
vain arts and sciences which are useless and hurtful to
those who can content themselves with simple nature.
It was then that idolatry came into Egypt : Sculpture,
painting, and poetry, obscured all pure ideas, and trans
formed them into sensible images ; the vulgar stop
there, without seeing into the hidden meaning of the
allegories. Some little time after the invasion of the
Arabians, several Egyptians, who could not support
the yoke of foreigners, left their country, and settled
themselves in colonies in all parts of the world.
Hence those great men famous in other nations ; the
Belus of the Babylonians, the Cecrops of the Athen
ians, and the Cadmus of the Boeotians ; and hence it is,
that all the nations of the universe owe their laws, sci
ences, and religion to Egypt. In this manner spoke
the priests to Cyrus. In this age lived the second
Hermes, called Trismegistus ; he was the restorer of
the ancient religion ; he collected the laws and scien-
" ces of the first Mercury in forty-two volumes, which
were called the treasure of remedies for the soul,
because they cure the mind of its ignorance, the source
ofall evils.
The third age was that of conquests and luxury.
Arts were perfected more and more ; cities, edifices,
and pyramids multiplied. The father of Sesostris
caused all the children, who were born the same day
with his son, to be brought to court, and educated with
the same care as the young prince. Upon the death of
The Travels of Cyrus. 121
the king, Sesostris levied a formidable army, and ap
pointed the young men, who had been educated with
him, to be the officers to command it ; there were near
two thousand of them, who were able to inspire all the
troops with courage, military virtues, and attachment
to the prince, whom they considered both as their mas
ter and their brother. He formed a design of conquer
ing the whole world., and penetrated into the Indies
farther than either Bacchus or Hercules ; the Scythi
ans submitted to his empire ; Thrace and Asia Minor
are full of the monuments ofhis victories ; upon those
monuments are to be seen the proud inscriptions of Se
sostris, king of kings and lord of lords. Having ex
tended his conquests from the Ganges to the Danube,
and from the river Tanais to the extremities of Africa,
he returned, after nine years absence, loaded with the
spoils of all the conquered nations, and drawn in a
chariot by the kings whom he had subdued. His gov
ernment was altogether military and despotic ; he les
sened the authority of the pontiffs, and transferred their
power to the commanders of the army. After his
death dissensions arose among those chiefs, and con
tinued for three generations. Under Anisis the Blind,
Sabacan the Ethiopian took advantage of their dis
cords, and invaded Egypt. This religious prince re
established the power of the priests, reigned fifty years
in a profound peace, and returned into his own country,
in obedience to the oracles of his gods. The kingdom
thus forsaken, fell into the hands of Sethon, the high-
priest of Vulcan ; he entirely destroyed the art of war
among the Egyptians, and despised the military men.
The reign of superstition, which enervates the minds
of men. succeeded that of despotic power, which had
122 The Travels of Cyrus.
too much sunk their courage. From that time Egypt
was supported only by foreign troops, and it fell by de
grees into a kind of anarchy. Twelve monarchs, cho
sen by the people, shared the kingdom between them,
till one of them, named Psammeticus, made himself
master of all the rest : then Egypt recovered itself a
little, and continued pretty powerful for five or six
reigns ; but at length this ancient kingdom became
tributary to Nabuchodonosor, king of Babylon. The
conquests of Sesostris were the source of all these ca
lamities. Cyrus perceived by this, that princes who
are insatiable of conquering, are enemies to their pos
terity ; by seeking to extend their dominion too far,
they sap the foundation of their authority.
The ancient laws of Egypt lost much of their force
even in the reign of Sesostris ; in Cyrus's time nothing
remained but the remembrance of them. This prince
collected all he could learn of them from his conversa
tion with the great men and old sages who were then
living. These laws may be reduced to three, upon
which all the rest depend ; the first relates to kings,
the second to polity, and the third to civil justice.
The kingdom was hereditary, but the kings were
subject to the laws. The Egyptians esteemed it a
criminal usurpation upon the rights of the great Osiris,
and as a mad presumption in a man to give his will for
a law. As soon as the king rose in the morning,
which was at the break of day, when the understand
ing is clearest, and the soul most serene, all matters
upon which he was to decide that day, were plainly
and distinctly bid before him ; but before he pronounc
ed judgment, he went to the temple to invoke the gods,
and to offer sacrifice. Being there surrounded by all
The Travels of Cyrus. 123
his court, and the victims standing at the altar, he as
sisted at a prayer full of instruction, the form of which
was as follows : " Great Osiris ! eye of the world, and
light of spirits ! grant to the prince, your image, all
royal virtues ; that he may be religious towards the
gods, and benign towards men, moderate, just, mag
nanimous, generous, an enemy of falsehood, master of
his passions, punishing less than the crime deserves,
and rewarding beyond merit." After this the high-
priest represented to him the faults he had committed
against the laws ; but it was always supposed that he
fell into them by surprise, or through ignorance ; and
the ministers who had given him evil counsels, or had
disguised the truth, were loaded with imprecations.
After the prayer and the sacrifice, they read to him the
actions of the heroes and great kings, that the monarch
might imitate their example, and maintain the laws
which had rendered his predecessors illustrious, and
their people happy. What is there that might not be
hoped for from princes accustomed, as an essential
part of their religion, to hear daily the strongest and
most salutary truths ? Accordingly, the greatest num
ber of the ancient kings of Egypt were so dear to their
people, that each private man bewailed their death like
that of a father.
The second law related to polity, and the subordi
nation of ranks. The lands were divided into three
parts ; the first was the king's domain, the second be
longed to the chief priests, and the third to the military
men. The common people were divided into three
classes, husbandmen, shepherds and artizans. These
three sorts made great improvements, each in their
professions : they profited by the experience of their an
124 The Travels of Cyrus.
cestors ; each father transmitted his knowledge and
skill to his children ; no person was allowed to forsake
his hereditary profession : by this means arts were cul
tivated and brought to a great perfection ; and the dis
turbances occasioned by the ambition of those who seek
to rise above the rank in which they were born, were
prevented. To the end that no person might be
ashamed of the lowness of their state and degree, the
mechanical arts Were held in honor. In the body pol
itic, as in the natural, all the members contribute some
thing to the common life. In Egypt it was thought
madness to despise a man, because he serves his coun
try in a laborious employment. And thus was a due
subordination of ranks preserved, without exposing
the nobler to envy, or the meaner to contempt.
The third law regarded civil justice. Thirty judges,
drawn out of the principal cities, composed the supreme
council, which administered justice throughout the
kingdom ; the prince assigned them revenues sufficient
to free them from domestic cares, that they might give
their whole time to the composing of good laws, and
enforcing the observation of them ; they had no farther
profit of their labors, except the glory and pleasure of
serving their country. That the judges might not be
imposed upon, so as to pass unjust decrees, the plead
ers were forbidden that delusive eloquence which daz
zles the understanding and moves the passions ; they
exposed the matters of fact with a clear and nervous
brevity, stripped of the false ornaments of reasoning ;
the president of the senate wore a collar of gold and
precious stones, at which hung a small figure without
eyes, with was called truth ; he applied it to the fore
head and heart of him who gained his cause ; for that
was the manner of pronouncing sentence.
Vie Travels of Cyrus. 125
There was in Egypt a sort of justice unknown in
other nations. As soon as a man had yielded his last
breath, he was brought to a trial, and the public accu
ser was heard against him. In case it appeared that
the behavior of the deceased had been culpable, his
memory was branded, and he was refused burial ; if
he were not convicted ofany crime against the gods, or
his country, he was entombed with marks of honor,
and a panegyric made upon him, without mentioning
any thing of his birth and descent. Before he was car
ried to the sepulchre, his bowels were taken out and
put into an urn, which the pontiff held up towards the
sun, making this prayer in the name of the deceased.
Great Osiris! life ofall beings ! receive my manes, and
reunite them to the society of the immortals : whilst I
lived, I endeavored to imitate you by truth and good
ness ; I have never committed any crime contrary to
social duty ; I have respected the gods of my fathers,
and have honored my parents. If I have committed
any fault through human weakness, intemperance, or a
taste for pleasure, these base spoils ofmy mortal nature
have been the cause of it. As he pronounced these
last words, he threw the urn into the river, and the rest
of the body, when embalmed, was deposited in the pyr
amids. Such were the notions of the ancient Egyp
tians ; being full of the hopes of immortality, they im
agined that human frailties were expiated by our sep
aration from the mortal body ; and that nothing but
crimes committed against the gods and society hinder
ed the soul from being reunited to its origin.
All these things raised in Cyrus a great desire to in
struct himself thoroughly in the religion of ancient
Egypt ; and for this purpose ho wont to Thebes. Zo
17
120 The Travels ofCyrus.
roaster had directed him to Sonchis, the high-priest of
this city, to be instructed by him in all the religious
mysteries of his country. Sonchis conducted him into
a spacious hall, where were three hundred statues of
Egyptian high-priests. This long succession of pon
tiffs gave the prince a high notion of the antiquity of
the religion of Egypt, and a great curiosity to know the
principles ofit. To make you acquainted, said the pon
tiff, with the origin of our worship, symbols and mys
teries, I must give you the history of Hermes Trisme-
gistus, who was the founder of them.
" Siphoas, or Hermes, the second of the name, was
of the race of our first sovereigns. While his mother
was with child of him, she went by sea to Lybia, to of
fer a sacrifice to Jupiter Ammon. As she coasted
along Africa, a sudden storm arose, and the vessel
perished near a desert island. She escaped by a par
ticular protection of the gods, and was cast upon the
island alone ; there she lived a solitary life, until her
delivery, at which time she died. The infant remained
exposed to the inclemencies ofthe weather, and the fu
ry ofthe vvild beasts ; but Heaven, which designed him
for great purposes, preserved him in the midst of these
misfortunes. A young she-goat, hearing his cries,
came and suckled him, till he was past infancy. For
some years he fed upon the tender grass with his nurse,
but afterwards upon dates and wild fruits, which seem
ed to him a more proper food. He perceived, by the
first rays of reason which began to shine in him, that
he was not of the same make with the Other beasts ;
that he had more understanding, invention and address
than they ; and thence conjectured that he might be of
a different nature.
Tfte- Travels of Cyrus. 127
" The she goat which nourished him, died of old age.
He was much surprised at this new phenomenon, of
which he had never observed the like before ; he could
not comprehend why she continued so long cold, and
without motion ; he considered her for several days ;
he compared all he saw in her with what he felt in
himself, and perceived that he had a beating in his
breast, and a principle of motion in him, which was no
longer in her. The mind speaks to itself, without
knowing the arbitrary names which we have affixed to
our ideas. Hermes reasoned thus : The goat did not
give herself that principle of life, since she has lost it,
and cannot restore it to herself.
." As he was endowed by nature with a Wonderful
sagacity, he sought a long time for the cause of this
change ; he,observed that the plants and trees seemed
to die, and to revive every year, by the going away and
return of the sun ; he imagined that this star was the
principle of all things, and he exposed the carcass to its
rays, but life did not return ; on the contrary, he saw
it putrify, grow dry and fall to pieces ; nothing remain
ed but the bones. It is not the sun then, said he with
in himself, that gives life to animals. He examined
whether it might not be some other star ; but having
observed, that the stars which sinned in the night had
neither so much heat nor light as the sun, and that all
nature seemed to languish in the absence ofthe day, he
concluded that the stars were not the first principles of
life.
" As he advanced in age, his understanding ripened,
and his reflections became more profound. He had
remarked, that inanimate bodies could not move of
themselves 3 that animals did not restore metton to
128 The Travels of Cyrus.
themselves when they had lost it, and that the sun did
not revive dead bodies ; hence he inferred, that there
was in nature a First Mover more powerful than the
sun or the stars, and which gave activity and motion to
all bodies.
" Reflecting afterwards upon himself, he observed,
that there was something in him which felt, which
thought, and which compared his thoughts together.
Dissipated minds, wandering about in vain pursuits,
and lost in amusements, never enter into themselves ;
their nobler faculties are benumbed, stupified, and bu
ried in matter. Hermes, not being diverted by preju
dices and passions from listening to the still voice of
wisdom, which insessantly calls us into ourselves, obey
ed that divine whisper without knowing it ; he retired
more and more into his spiritual nature, and, by a sim
plicity of heart, attained to the discovery of truth. Af
ter having meditated whole years upon all these opera
tions of his mind, he concluded at length, that the First
Mover had understanding as well as force, and that his
wisdom was equal to his power.
" Man, in the midst of beings which can give him no
succor, is in a wretched situation. But when he dis
covers the idea of a being who is able to make him hap
py, there is nothing which can compare with his hopes
and his joy.
" The desire of happiness, inseparable from our na
ture, made Hermes wish to see that First Mover, to
know him, and to converse with him. If I could, said
he, make him understand my thoughts, and my desires,
doubtless he would render me more happy than I am.
His hopes and his joy were soon disturbed by great
doubts. Alas ! said he, if the First Mover be as good
The Travels of Cyrus. 129
and as beneficent as I imagine him, why do not I see
him ? Why has he not made himself known to me ?
And above all, why am I in this mournful solitude,
where I sec nothing like myself, nothing which seems
to reason as I do, nothing which can give mc any as
sistance ?
" In the midst of these perplexities, his weak reason
was silent, and could answer him nothing. His heart
spoke, and turning itself to the First Principle, said to
him, in that mute language which the gods understood
better than words: " Life of all beings ! shew thyself
to me ; make me know who thou art, and what I am ;
come and succor me in this my solitary and miserable
state." The great Osiris loves a pure heart, and always
hearkens to its desires. He ordered the first Hermes,
or Mercury, to take a human form, and to go and in
struct him.
One day, as young Trismegistus was sleeping at the
foot of a tree, Hermes came and sat down by him.
Trismegistus was surprised, when he awaked, to be
hold a figure like his own. He uttered some sounds,
but they were not articulate. He discovered all the
different motions of his soul, by the transports, earnest
ness, and ingenuous and artless signs, whereby nature
teaches men to express what they strongly feel.
Mercury in a little time taught the savage philoso
pher the Egyptian language. Afterwards «he inform
ed him what he was, and what he was to be, and in
structed him in all the sciences, which Trismegistus
since taught the Egyptians. He then began to discern
several marks, which lie had not observed before, of an
infinite wisdom and power, diffused throughout all na
ture. And thereby perceived the weakness of human
130 Tfie Travels of Cyrus.
reason, when left to itself, and without instruction.
He was astonished at his former ignorance, but his new
discoveries produced new perplexities.
One day, while Mercury was speaking to him of the
noble destiny of man, the dignity of his nature, and
the immortality which awaits iiim, he answered, " If
tie great Osiris ordains mortals to so perfect a felicity,
whence is it that they are born in such ignorance ?
Whence comes it that he does not shew himself to them,
to dispel their darkness ? Alas ! if you had not come
to enlighten me, I should have sought long without dis
covering the first principle of all things, such as you
have made known to me." Upon this, Mercury un
folded to him all the secrets of the Egyptian divinity,
in the following manner :
" The primitive state of man was very different from
what it is at present. Without, all the parts of the uni
verse were in a perfect harmony ; within, all was in
subjection to the immutable laws of reason ; every
one carried his rule within his own breast, and all the
nations of the earth were but one republic of sages.
Mankind lived then without discord, ambition or pomp,
in a perfect peace, equality and simplicity. Each man,
however, had his particular qualities and inclinations,
but all inclinations were subservient to the love of vir
tue, and all talents applied to the discovery of truth ;
the beauties of nature, and the perfections of its author,
were the entertainment and study of the first men.
The imagination presented nothing then but just and
pure ideas ; the passions, being in subjection to reason,
raised no tumult in the heart, and the love of pleasure
was always regulated by the love of order. The god
Osiris, the goddess Isis and their son Orus, came often
The Travels of Cyrus. 131
and conversed with men, and taught them all the mys
teries of wisdom. This terrestrial life, how happy so
ever, was nevertheless but the infancy of our beings, in
which souls were prepared for a successive unfolding
of intelligence and happiness. When they had lived a
certain time upon the earth, men changed their form
without dying, and flew away to the stars, where with
new faculties and new light they discovered new
truths, and enjoyed new pleasures ; from thence they
were raised to another world, thence to a third, and so
travelled through the immense spaces by endless meta
morphoses.
" A whole age, and, according to some, many ages
passed in this manner ; at length there happened a sad
change both in spirits and in bodies. Typhon, chiefof
the genii, and his^companions, had formerly inhabited
our happy dwelling ; but being intoxicated with pride,
and forgetting themselves so far as to attempt to scale
heaven, they were thrown down headlong, and buried
in the centre of the earth. They came out of their
abyss, broke through the egg of the world, diffused the
evil principle over it, and corrupted the minds, hearts
and manners of its inhabitants. The soul of the great
Osiris forsook his body, which is naturk, and it became
a carcass. Typhon tore it in pieces, dispersed its
members, and blasted all its beauties.
" From that time the body became subject to diseas
es and to death, the mind to error and to passions; the
imagination of man presents him now with nothing but
chimeras; his reason serves only to contradict his in
clinations, without being able to correct them ; the
greatest part of his pleasures are false and deceitful,
and all his pains, even his imaginary ones, are real evils;
132 TJte Travels of Cyrus.
his heart is an abundant source of restless desires, friv
olous fears, vain hopes, disorderly inclinations, which
successively torment him ; a crowd of wild thoughts
and turbulent passions cause an intestine war within
him, make him continually take arms against himself,
and render him at the same time both an idolater and
an enemy of his own nature. What each man feels in
himself is a lively image of what passes in human soci
ety. Three different empires are risen in the world, and
share among them all characters, the empire of opinion,
that of ambition, and that of sensuality : error presides
in the first, force has the dominion in the second, and
vanity reigns in the third. Such is the present state of
human nature. The goddess Isis goes over all the earth,
seeking the dispersed, deluded souls, to conduct them
back to the empyreum, while the god Orus continually
attacks the evil principle. It is said that he will at last
re-establish the reign of Osiris, and will banish forever
the monster Typhon ; until that time good princes may
alleviate the miseries of men, but they cannot entirely
cure them. You, continued Mercury, arc of the race
of the ancient kings of Egypt, and are destined by the
great Osiris to reform that kingdom by your wise laws.
He has preserved you only, that you may one day make
other people happy ; you will very soon see your own
country." lie said, and of a sudden rose into the air.
his body became transparent, and disappeared by de
grees like the morning, which flies at the approach of
Aurora. He had a crown upon his head, wings at his
feet, and held in his hand a caduceus ; upon his flow
ing robe all the hieroglyphics which Trismegistus after
wards made use of to express the mysteries of theology
and of nature.
The Travels of Cyrus. 183
" Meris the first, who then reigned in Egypt being
admonished by the gods, in a dream, of all that passed
in the desert island, sent thither for the savage philoso
pher, and perceiving the conformity between his story
and the divine dream, adopted him for his son. Tris-
megistus, after the death of that prince, ascended the
throne, and made Egypt for a long time happy by his
wise laws. He wrote several books, which contained
the divinity, philosophy and policy of the Egyptians.
The first Hermes had invented the ingenious art of ex
pressing all sorts of sounds by the different combina
tions of a few letters ; an invention most wonderful for
its simplicity, but not sufficiently admired, because it is
common. Besides this manner of writing, there was
another, which was consecrated to divine things, and
which few persons understood. Trismegistus expres
sed the virtues and the passions of the soul, the actions
and attributes ofthe gods, by the figures ofanimals, in
sects, plants, stars, and divers other symbolical char
acters. Hence it is that we see sphynxes, serpents,
birds and crocodiles in our ancient temples, and upon
our obelisks ; but they are not the objects of our wor
ship, as the Greeks foolishly imagine. Trismegistus
concealed the mysteries of religion under hieroglyphics
and allegories, and exposed nothing to the eyes of the
vulgar, but the beauties ofhis morality. This has been
the method of the sages in all times, and of the great
legislators in all countries. These divine men were
sensible that corrupted minds could have no relish for
heavenly truths till the heart was purified from its pas
sions ; for which reason they spread over religion a se
cret veil, which opens and vanishes when the eyes of the
understanding are able to support its brightness."
18
134 The Travels of Cyrus.
Cyrus perceived by this history of Hermes, that the
Osiris, Orus and Typhon of the Egyptians, were the
same with the Oromazes, Mythras and Arimanius of
the Persians ; and that the mythology of these two na
tions was founded upon the same principles. The no
tions of the Orientals were only more simple, clear, and
undisguised by sensible images ; those of the Egyptians
more allegorical, obscure, and wrapt up in fiction.
After Sonchis had discoursed with Cyrus in this man
ner, he conducted him to the temple, where he let him
into all the ceremonies and mysteries of the Egyptian
worship ; a privilege which had never been granted
before to any stranger, till he had gone through a se
vere probation. The temple was consecrated to the
goddess Isis, and built in an oval form, to represent the
egg of the world ; over the great gate was this inscrip
tion.* To THE GODDESS WHO IS ONE, AND WHO IS ALL.
The altar was a great obelisk of porphyry, on which
were engraven several hieroglyphics, containing the
secrets of the Egyptian religion. Towards the top ap
peared three dark clouds, which seemed to meet in a
point ; somewhat lower, a tree planted in a muddy
marsh, upon whose branches, which reached up to the
clouds, sat an hawk ; by the side of this tree was a
winged globe, with a serpent coming out of it ; at the
bottom of all, a crocodile, without a tongue, hid itselfin
the waters of an abyss, a sphynx at the same time
walking upon the surface. On one side of this altar
stood the statue of the goddess covered with a veil,
upon which were represented the figures ofthe celestial
* Inscription upon a temple of Isis. which is yet to be seen at
Capua.
The Travels of Cyrus. 135
and terrestrial bodies : on the other side was the statue
of Harpocrates, holding one hand upon his mouth, and
pointing to the goddess with the other.*
The high-priest, clothed in his pontifical robes, ex
plained to Cyrus the meaning of these symbols before
he began the sacrifice. We adore, said he, no other
but the great Arnmon, that is to say the unknown God ;
we consider him sometimes as he is in himself, and at
other times as manifested by nature. In the first sense
we call him Eicton, Emeph, Ptha, Life, Light, and
Love ; all whose operations, thoughts and affections
being concentrated in himself, he remains in bis solita
ry unity incomprehensible to mortals ; thus consider-
•ed/t' we adore him only by silence, or by the name of
Incomprehensible Darkness thrice repeated ; and we
represent him by the clouds which you see towards the
top of the obelisk.
Then we consider him, as he has manifested himself
in the multiplicity of nature, by a diffusive goodness
that communicates itself every where, by a sovereign
wisdom which forms within itself the ideas ofall things,
and by an infinite power that produces, animates, pre
serves and governs whatever has a being. We call
these three forms of the divinity, Osiris, Isis, Orus, and
we represent them by many different symbols : some
times by a hawk, which having of all birds the most
piercing eye, and the most rapid flight, serves to ex
press the divine intelligence and activity. The bird
* These hieroglyphics are all Egyptian, and ave to be found, with
the explications here given ofthem, in Plutarch, Jamblichus, Dam-
mascius and Horus Apollo, quoted by Kircher and Cudworth.
t This famous expression- ofthe Egyptian is preserved by Dam-
mascius.
136 The Travels of Cyrus.
sits upon the top of a tree, to signify that the Eternal
Nature is infinitely exalted above matter, which is as.
dirt, in comparison of the pure essence of the Deity.
The globe denotes the invisible Unity without begin
ning or end, the serpent the supreme Wisdom, and the
wings that active Spirit which animates and gives life
to all. The crocodile which appears under a deep wa
ter, and without a tongue, represents the great Osiris
hidden in the abyss of nature, and doing all in a pro
found silence ; but you see walking upon the surface of
this abyss, a sphynx, which, being half man and half
lion, signifies the wisdom and strength ofthe two other
principles. Lastly, the goddess Isis covered with a
veil, and having, as you see, this inscription on her
pedestal, / am all that is, has been, or shall be, and no
mortal can remove the veil that covers me, declares, that
universal nature is but a veil which covers the Divinity,
and that no one can behold the splendor of his pure
and naked essence. The posture of the god Harpo-
cratcs denotes, that we ought never to speak of the in
comprehensible essence of Isis, but only of her mani
festations. The Egyptians in all other places have
forgotten the original and sublime meaning of these sa
cred symbols ; they adore the animals whose repre
sentations you see here, and pay contributions for their
nourishment ; but the inhabitants of Thebes refuse to do
it ; they acknowledge no mortal gods, and adore but
one sole Deity uncreated and eternal.*
Cyrus no sooner understood the meaning of these hi
eroglyphics, but he was the more desirous of seeing the
Egyptian ceremonies ; and the sacrifice began. While
* See Plutarch in his Isis and Osiris.
The Travels of Cyrus. 137
the victims were offering, and their blood streaming at
the foot of the altar, there was heard the most delight
ful music : on a sudden the high-priest rising up, cried
with a loud voice, Let us adore the great Ammon, the
unknown God, the Incomprehensible Darkness ! thrice
he repeated these words, and thrice the people fell pros
trate ; the music stopped, an universal silence reigned,
every one was afraid to breathe, lest he should disturb
the stillness and tranquillity of the place ; then the
voices joining the instruments, began this sacred hymn :
" Let us celebrate the praises of the immortal Isis :
she is the mother of nature, the origin of all things, the
sum of all the divine virtues, the uniform face of the
gods and goddesses ; by one single look she enlightens
the stars ; at her commands soft zephyrs refresh the
earth ; she rules over the dismal and silent regions of
hell ; she cherishes mortals, and shews them the affec
tion of a mother in their affliction ; she calms the tem
pests of fortune ; she restrains the noxious influences
of the stars ; the celestial deities prostrate themselves
before her ; the infernal powers obey her ; all the uni
verse adores her under different names, and by differ
ent rites." The service ended, forty priests walked two
and two from the temple in procession, singing hymns
in honor of the gods : the high-priest came last with
Cyrus at his right hand, and Amenophis at his left,
encompassed by a vast throng of people, who attended
them in a respectful silence without tumult, and con
ducted the prince back to the palace of the pontiff.
Cyrusjstayed some days with Sonchis, and then pre
pared to pass into Greece. This country had filled all
the East with the fame of her excellent laws, brave
warriors, and wise philosophers. The prince would
138 The Travels of Cyrus.
gladly have engaged Amenophis to accompany him in
his travels ; and in order to prevail upon him, promised
that he would return by Babylon, and endeavor to per
suade Nabuchodonosor to alter his resolutions. O Cy- '
rus, replied Amenophis, you are a stranger to the poli
tics of that conqueror ; he resolves to have none but
tributary kings in Egypt, mere slaves to his will ; A-
masis is a man for his purpose ; Apries is dead, the
race of our ancient king is extinct, the usurper governs
with gentleness and moderation ; Egypt is in peace
and tranquillity, and there is no longer any pretence
for revolting. I am going back to my solitude, where
I shall find those pure pleasures, which are not to be
met with at the courts of kings, nor in the hurry of bus
iness. GO, prince ; go, render yourself worthy to ac
complish the oracles ; and never forget in the midst of
your successes, that you have seen a monarch, who
was heretofore triumphant and glorious, driven on a
sudden from his throne, and become the sport offortune.
They parted soon after. Amenophis returned to his
former solitude in Arabia, and Cyrus left Egypt with
out seeing Amasis, whose character and usurpation he
abhorred.
FOURTH BOOK.
CYRUS resolving to go the shortest way into
Greece, went down the Nilefrom Memphis tothe mouth
of that river, and embarked upon the Great Sea in a
Phenician vessel, that was bound for Argolis. Aras-
pes,duringthevoyage, was sometimes sad and thought
ful, which Cyrus perceiving, asked him the reason.
Araspes answered, You are a prince, I dare not speak
my heart to you. Let us forget the prince, said Cyrus,
and converse like friends. Well then, said, Araspesy
I obey. Every thing which Amenophis has said upon
the instability of the heart of man in friendship, terri
fies me. I often feel those contrarieties he has spoken
of; your manners, which are too averse to pleasure,
sometimes offend me ; and, without doubt, my imper
fections make you uneasy in their turn ; how unhappy
should I be, ifthis difference of character could alter or
diminish our friendship ! All men have their frailties,
replied Cyrus. Whoever looks for a friend without
imperfections, will never find what he seeks ; we are
not always equally content with ourselves ; how should
we be so with our friend ? We love ourselves neverthe
less with all our faults, antf we ought to love our friend
in like manner ; you have your failings, and I have
mine ; but our candor in mutually confessing our er
rors, and our indulgence in excusing each other, ought
to remove your fears of any breach in our friendship.
It is treating one's friend like another self, thus to shew
him our soul quite naked ; and this ingenuousness
140 The Travels of Cyrus.
makes all imperfections vanish. With other men it is
sufficient to be sincere, by never affecting to appear
what we are not ; but with a friend we must be simple,
so as to shew ourselves even such as we are.
Cyrus then changed the conversation, and discour
sed with his friend of all they had seen in Egypt. When
he had dwelt a good while upon the beauties of that
country, its revolutions, sciences, religion, and iorm of
government, he thus concluded : f admire the wisdom
of all the laws of ancient Egypt, except that which for
bids the Egyptians to quit their paternal p-ofessions ;
this law ought to have exceptions. We see in almost
all countries and all ages, that the greatest men have
not always had the advantage of an high birth. There
are in all States superior geniuses that would be render
ed useless, if confined to the sphere in which they were
born : in political establishments we should avoid eve
ry thing whereby nature may be constrained, and gen
ius cramped. The noblest prerogative ofa king, is to
be able to repair the injustice of fortune, by doing jus
tice to merit.
While a favorable wind filled the sails, Araspes, call
ing to mind the notions of Zoroaster and the magi, dis
coursed with Cyrus upon all the wonders which are
discoverable in the vast empire of the waters ; of the
conformation of its inhabitants, which is suited to their
element ; of the use of their fins, which they employ
sometimes as oars, to divide the water, and some
times as wings to stop themselves, by extending
them ; of the delicate membranes which they have in
their bodies, and which they distend or contract, to
make themselves more or less heavy, according as they
would go upwards or downwards in the water ; of the
The Travels of Cyrus. 141
admirable structure of their eyes, which are perfectly
round, to refract and unite morereadily the rays oflight,
without which they could not see in the humid element.
After this they discoursed of the beds ofsalts and bitu
minous matter, hid in the bottom ofthe sea; the weight
of each particle of these salts is regulated in such a
manner, that the sun cannot draw them upwards ;
whence it is, that the vapors and rains which fall again
upon the earth, not being overcharged with them, be
come plenteous sources of fresh water. Then they
reasoned upon the ebbing and flowing of the tide, which
are not so discernible in the Great Sea as in the ocean ;
of the influence of the moon which causes those irregu
lar motions, and of the distance and magnitude of that
planet, which are wisely adjusted to answer all our
wants ; if it were bigger or nearer to us, or if there
were many of them, the pressure, being thereby aug
mented, would raise the tides too high, and the earth
would be every moment overflowed by deluges ; ifthere
were no moon, or ifit were less, or at a greater distance,
the ocean would soon become a mass of stagnated wa
ters, and its pestiferous exhalations diffusing them
selves every where, would destroy plants, beasts and
men. At length they came to discourse of that sover
eign power, which has disposed all the parts of the uni
verse with so much symmetry and art.
After some days sailing, the vesssel entered the Sa-
ronic gulf, and soon arrived at Epidaurus, from whence
the prince made haste to get to Sparta. This famous
city was of a circular form, and resembled a camp.
It was situated in a wild and barren valley, through
which flows the Eurotas, an impetuous river, which of
ten lays waste the whole country by its inundations.
19
142 The Travels ofCyrus.
This valley is hemmed in on one side by inaccessible
mountains, and on the other side by little hills, which
scarcely produced what was necessary to supply the
real wants of nature. The situation of the country had
contributed very much to the warlike and savage gen
ius of its inhabitants.
As Cyrus entered the city, he beheld only plain and
uniform buildings, very different from the stately pala
ces be had seen in Egypt ; every thing still spoke the
primitive simplicity of the Spartans. But their man
ners were upon the point of being corrupted, under the
reign of Ariston and Anaxandrides, if Chilo, one of
the seven sages of Greece, had not prevented it.
These two kings of the ancient race of the Heraclides
shared the sovereign power between them ; one govern
ed the State, the other commanded the troops. They
received Cyrus with more politeness than was usual
for the Spartans to shew to strangers. They seemed
to have very little curiosity about the manners, scien
ces and customs of other nations ; their great concern
was to make the Prince of Persia admire the wisdom of
their law-giver, and the excellence of his laws. To
this end they presented Chilo to him. This philoso
pher had by his talents acquired great credit with the
kings, the senate and the people, and was looked upon
as a second Lycurgus ; nothing was done at Lacede-
mon without him. The Spartan sage, in order to give
Cyrus a lively notion of their laws, manners, and form
of government, first led him to the council of the Ge-
rontes, instituted by Lycurgus This council, where
the two kings presided, was held in a hall hung with
mat, that the magnificence of the place might not di
vert the senators' attention. It consisted of about forty
The Travels of Cyrus. 148
persons, and was not liable to that tumult and confusion
which frequently reigned in the debates of the people
at Athens.
Till Lycurgus's time, the kings of Sparta had been
absolute. But Eurytion, one of those kings, having
yielded some part of his prerogatives to please the peo
ple, a republican party was thereupon formed, which
became audacious and turbulent. The kings would
have resumed their ancient authority, but the people
would not suffer it ; and this continual struggle be
tween opposite powers rent the State to pieces. To
establish an equal balance of the regal, and popular
power, which leaned alternately to tyranny and an
archy, Lycurgus, in imitation of Minos, instituted a
council oftwenty-eight old men, whose authority keep
ing a mean betwixt the two extremes, delivered Sparta
from its domestic dissensions. An hundred and thirty
years after him, Theopompus having observed, that
what had been resolved by the kings and their council
was not always agreeable to the multitude, established
certain annual magistrates, called Ephori, who were
chosen by the people, and consented in their name to-
whatever was determined by the king and senate;
each private man looked upon these unanimous resolu
tions as made by himself ; and in this union of the head
with the members consisted the life of the body politic
at Sparta.
After Lycurgus had regulated the form of govern
ment, he gave the Spartans such laws as were proper
to prevent the disorders occasioned by avarice, ambition
and love. In order to expel luxury and envy from
Sparta, he resolved to banish forever both riches and
poverty. He persuaded his countrymen to make an
equal distribution of all their wealth, and of all their
144 The Travels of Cyrus.
lands ; decried the use of gold and silver, and ordained
that they should have only iron money, which was not
current in foreign countries. He chose rather to de
prive the Spartans of the advantages of commerce with
their neighbors, than to expose them to the misfortune
of bringing home from other nations those instruments
ofluxury which might corrupt them.
The more firmly to establish an equality among the
citizens, 'they eat together in public halls ; each com
pany had liberty to choose its own guests* and no one
was admitted there but with the consent of the whole,
to the end that peace might not be disturbed by a differ
ence of humors ; a necessary precaution for men natu
rally fierce and warlike. Cyrus went into these public
halls, where the men were seated without any distinc
tion but that of their age : they were surrounded by
children who waited on them. Their temperance and
austerity of life were so great, that other nations used
to say, it was better to die, than to live like the Spar
tans. During the repast, they discoursed together on
grave and serious matters, the interests of their country,
the lives of great men, the difference between a good
and bad citizen, and of whatever might form youth to
the taste of military virtues. Their discourse contain
ed much sense in few words, for which reason the la
conic style has been admired in all nations ; by imitat
ing the rapidity of thought, it said all in a moment, and
gave the hearer the pleasure of discovering a profound
meaning which was unexpressed ; the graceful, fine
and delicate turns of the Athenians were unknown at
Lacedemon ; the Spartans were for strength in the
mind as well as in the body.
Upon a solemn festival, Cyrus and Araspes were
present at the assemblies of the young Lacedemonians,
The Travels of Cyrus. 145
which were held within a large inclosure, surrounded
with divers seats of turf, raised one above another, in
form of an amphitheatre. Young girls, almost naked,
contended with boys in running, wrestling, dancing,
and all sorts of laborious exercises. The young men
were not permitted to marry any but such as they had
vanquished at these games. Cyrus was shocked to see
the liberty which reigned in these public assemblies
between persons of different sexes, and could not for
bear representing it to Chilo. " There seems, said he,
to be a great inconsistency in the laws of Lycurgus ;
his aim was to establish a republic, which should con
sist only of warriors, inured to all sorts of labor, and at
the same time he made no scruple to expose them to
sensuality, the most effectual means to sink their cour
age."
" The design of Lycurgus in instituting these festi
vals, replied Chilo, was to preserve and perpetuate
military virtue in this republic. That great lawgiver
was well acquainted with human nature ; he knew
what influence the inclinations and dispositions of mo
thers have upon their children ; his intention was to
make the Spartan women heroines, that they might
bring the republic none but heroes. Besides, continu
ed Chilo, gross sensuality and delicate love are equally
unknown at Lacedemon ; it is only in these public fes
tivals that the familiarity which so much offends you is
allowed. Lycurgus thought it possible to deaden the
fire of voluptuous desires, by accustoming the eye some
times to those objects which excite them. At all other
times the women are very reserved; nay, by our laws,
new-married persons are permitted to see one another
but rarely, and that in private ; and thus our youth are
146 Tfie"Travels"of Cyrus.
formed to temperance and moderation, even in the most
lawful pleasures. By this means also are prevented
those disgusts which frequently arise from the permis
sion of an unbounded liberty in the marriage state.
The constraint which the Spartans are under, keeps up
the ardor of the first flame ; so that marriage does not
make them cease to be lovers. On the other hand,
stolen amors and jealousy are banished from Sparta ;
husbands who are sick, or advanced in years, lend their
wives to others, and afterwards take them again with
out scruple. Wives look upon themselves as belong
ing to the State, more than to their husbands. The
children are educated in common, and often without
knowing any other mother than the republic, or any
other fathers than the senators."
Here Cyrus, struck with a lively remembrance of
Cassandana, and of the pure pleasures of their mutual
love, sighed within himself, and felt an abhorrence of
these odious maxims. He despised effeminacy, but he
could not relish the savage fierceness of the Spartans,
which carried them to sacrifice the sweetest charms of
society to ambition, and to think that military virtues
were inconsistent with tender passions; however as
he was sensible that Chilo would little understand
what he meant by these delicate sentiments, he con
tented himself with saying :—Paternal love seems to
me to be a source of great advantage to a State. Fa
thers are careful of the education of their children, and
this education obliges children to gratitude ; these are
the original bands of society. Our country is nothing
else but many families united ; iffamily love be weak
ened, what will become of the love of one's country,
which depends upon it? Ought we not to be afraid of
The Travels of Cyrus. 147
such establishments as destroy nature, under pretence
of improving it ? The Spartans, answered Chilo, all
constitute but one family. Lycurgus had experienced,
that fathers are often unworthy, and children ungrate
ful ; that both are wanting to their reciprocal duties,
and he therefore trusted the education of the children
to a number ofold men, who considering themselves as
the common fathers, have an equal care of them.
In reality, children were no where better educated
than at Sparta. They were chiefly taught to obey, to
undergo labor, to conquer in combats, and to face pain
and death with courage. They went with their heads
and feet naked, lay upon rushes, and eat very little;
and this little they were obliged to procure by dexter
ity, in the public banqueting rooms. Not that the
Spartans authorised thefts and robberies, for as all was
in common in that republic, those vices could have no
place there ; but the design was to accustom children,
who were destined for war, to surprise the vigilance
of those who watched over them, and to expose them
selves courageously to the severest punishments, in case
they failed ofthat dexterity which was exacted of them.
Lycurgus had remarked that subtle speculations, and
all the refinements of science, served often only to spoil
the understanding and to corrupt the heart ; and he
therefore made little account of them. Nothing how
ever was neglected, to awaken in children the taste of
pure reason, and to give them a strength ofjudgment;
but all kinds of studies which were not serviceable to
good manners were looked upon as useless and danger
ous occupations. The Spartans were of opinion, that
in the present state of human nature, man is formed
rather for action than knowledge, and better qualified
for society than contemplation.
148 The Travels of Cyrus.
Cyrus went afterwards to the Gymnasia, where the
youth performed their exercises ; Lycurgus had renew
ed the Olympic games instituted by Hercules, and had
dictated to Iphitus the statues and ceremonies observed
in them. Religion, warlike genius and policy, all con
tributed to perpetuate the virtues of solemnising these
games ; they served not only to do honor to the gods, to
celebrate the virtues of heroes, to prepare the body for
the fatigues ofa military life, but also to draw together
from time to time in the same place, and unite by com
mon sacrifices, divers nations whose strength was in
their union. The Spartans employed themselves in no
sort of labor but the exercises necessary to qualify them
to dispute the prizes in the Olympic games. The He
lots, who were their slaves, manured their lands, and
were the only mechanics among them ; for they es
teemed every employment as mean and ignoble, which
regarded only a provision for the body.
Cyrus having learned this maxim of the Lacedemo
nians, said to Chilo—Agriculture and the mechanic
arts appear to me absolutely necessary to preserve the
people from idleness, which begets discord, effeminacy,
and all the evils destructive of society. Lycurgus seems
to depart a little too much from nature in all his laws.
The tranquillity and sweet leisure ofa rural life, replied
Chilo, were thought by Lycurgus to be contrary to a
warlike genius ; besides, the Spartans are never idle ;
they are continually employed in all those exercises that
are images of war, in marching, encamping, ranging
armies in order of battle, defending, attacking, building
and destroying fortresses. By this means a noble emu
lation is kept up in their minds without enmity, and
the desire of conquest preserved without shedding blood.
The Travels of Cyrus. 149
jEvery one disputes the prize with ardor, and the van
quished fake a pride in crowning the victors ; the
pleasures which accompany these exercises, make them
forget the fatigue ; and this fatigue prevents their cour
age from suffering any prejudice in time of peace.
This discourse raised in Cyrus a curiosity to know
the militarydiscipline of the Spartans, and he soon found
an opportunity to inform himself in it. The Tegeans,
who inhabited a part of Peloponnessus, having entered
into a league with several cities of Greece, had raised
troops, and were coming to attack the Spartans upon
their frontiers. The latter prepared to repulse the en
emy, and Cyrus resolved to signalize his coinage on
this occasion, but he would first know the reasons of
the war, and Chilo explained them to him in the fol
lowing manner.
The Spartans, said he, being arrived to a flourishing
condition by a strict observance of the laws of Lycur-
gus, laid a scheme, first to make themselves masters of
Peloponnessus, and then of all Greece. Courage and
success begot in them a thirst of dominion, contrary to
the original design of our great lawgiver. His inten
tion of forming a republic of warriors, was not to dis
turb the peace of other cities, but to preserve his own
in union, independence and liberty. That we might
never entertain the unj ust ambition of making con
quests* he forbad us the use of money, commerce and
fleets, three helps absolutely requisite for those who set
up for conquerors. The Lacedemonians, therefore,
departed from the spirit ofLycurgus, when they resolv
ed to attack their neghbors : their first design was to
fall upon the Arcadians , but having consulted the or
acle of Delphos, the Pythian priestess advised them to
20
130 The Travels of Cyrus.
turn their arms against the Tegeans. The Spartans,
depending on a deceitful oracle, marched out of their
city, and carried chains with them, in full assurance of
reducing their enemies to slavery, Several battles
were fought without victory declaring for either side.
At length, in the beginning of the present reign, our ar
my was put to flight ; our prisoners, loaded with the
same chains which we had prepared for the Tegeans,
were yoked like beasts, and condemned to draw the
plough. The bad conduct of our princes was the
source of these calamities. I should be far from dis
covering to you their faults, if they had not had the
courage to correct them.
" Ariston, who governed the State, was naturally of
a sweet disposition, affable and beneficent ; he put an
equal confidence in all those who were about him :
Anaxandrides, who commanded the troops, was of a
quite contrary character, dark, suspicious, and dis
trustful. Prytanis, the favorite of Ariston, had been
educated at Athens, and had given himself up to pleas
ure ; having a great deal of fine wit, he had the secret
-of making even his faults agreeable ; he knew how to
suit himself to all tastes, and to all characters ; he was
sober with the Spartans, polite with the Athenians,
and learned with the Egyptians ; he put on all shapes
by turns, not to deceive, (for he was not ill-natured)
but to gratify his prevailing passion, which was the de
sire of pleasing, and of being the idol of men : in a
word, he was a compound of whatever is most agreea
ble and irregular ; Ariston loved him, and was entirely
governed by him. This favorite led his master into all
-sorts of voluptuousness ; the Spartans began to grow
effeminate ; the king bestowed his favors without dis
tinction or discernment
The Travels of Cyrus. 151
<c Anaxandrides observed a quite different conduct,
but equally ruinous to the State ; as he knew not how
to distinguish sincere and honest hearts, he believed all
men false, and that those who had the appearances of
probity, were only greater hypocrites than the rest.
He entertained suspicions of the best officers of his ar
my, and especially of Leonidas, the principal and most
able of his generals, a man of strict honor and distin
guished bravery. Leonidas loved virtue sincerely, but
had not enough of it to bear with the faults of other
men ; he despised them too much, and was regardless
both of their praises and favors ; his hatred of vice was
such, that it rendered his manners fierce and rugged,
like those of the first Spartans ; he looked for perfec
tion in every body, and as he never found it, he had no
intimate friendship with any person : nobody loved him,
but all esteemed and feared him ; for he had all those
virtues which make men most respected and most
avoided. Anaxandrides grew weary of him, and ban
ished him ; thus did this prince weaken the strength of
Sparta, while Ariston corrupted her manners.
" Our enemies drew advantage every day from these
divisions and disorders. Perceiving the misfortunes
which threatened our country, I went to the young
princes, and spoke to them in the following manner :—
My age, my long services, and the care I have taken of
your education, give me a right to tell you freely, that
you both ruin yourselves by contrary faults. Ariston
exposes himself to be often deceived by flattering favor
ites ; and you, Anaxandrides, expose yourself to the
misfortune ofnever having a true friend: To treat men
always with the utmost rigor they deserve, is brutality,
and not justice ; but> on the other hand, to have so gen
1 52 The Travels of Cyrus.
eral a goodness, and such an easiness of temper, as not
to be able to punish crimes with firmness, or to reward
merit with distinction, is not a virtue, but a weakness,
and is frequently attended with as bad consequences as
severity and ill-nature itself. As for you, Anaxand-
rides, your distrust does more hurt to the State than
the two easy goodness of Ariston. Why do you enter
tain a diffidence of men upon bare surmises, when their
talents and capacities have rendered them, necessary to
you ? When a prince has once honored a minister with
his confidence, for good reasons, he ought never to with
draw it, without manifest proofs of perfidiousness. It
is impossible for him to do every thing himself, and he
must therefore have the courage to hazard sometimes
the being deceived, rather than miss the opportunities
of acting : he should know how to make a wise use of
men, without blindly yielding himself up to them like
Ariston : there is a medium between excessive diffi
dence and blind confidence ; without this medium, no
government can long subsist. Reflection and experi
ence rectified by degrees the faults of Ariston, and he
dismissed Prytanis : but ths morose temper of Anax-
andrid.es could be corrected only by misfortunes ; he
was often defeated in his wars with the Tegeans, and
at length found the necessity of recalling Leonidas.
Our tioops siuce that time have been more successful ;
we have recovered our prisoners and obtained several
victories ; but these advantages have made the Tege
ans more jealous of us, and we are become the object,
not only of their hatred, but of that of all the Greeks."
Cyrus listened with attention to this account given
him by Chilo, and then said to him, looking upon Aras-
pes :—" The history of your kings will be an eternal
The Travels of Cyrus. 15$
lesson to me, to avoid two faults very common with
princes. As for the rest, I observe that the republic
of Sparta is like a camp always subsisting-, an assem
bly of warriors always under arms ; how great a res
pect soever I have for Lycurgus, I cannot admire this
form of government. You assure me that your law
giver, in constituting such a republic, had no other de
sign but to preserve it in union and liberty ; but would
a legislator, who has only these pacific views, banish
from a State all other professions except that of war?
Would he enjoin, that no member of it should be bred
to any other exercise, study, or occupation, but that of
making himself dexterous in destroying other men ?
Lycurgus has indeed prohibited the use ofmoney, com
merce, and fleets ; but are these necessary to the con
quest of Greece ? I rather believe, that he made these
prohibitions only out of policy, in order to conceal from
the neighboring cities his ambitious designs, hinder the
Spartans from becoming soft and luxurious, and de
prive them of the means of dividing their forces by for
eign and distant wars. Your lawgiver has again de
parted both from nature and justice ; when he accus
tomed each private citizen to frugality, he should have
taught the whole nation to confine her ambition. An
able politician ought to provide not only for the liberty
of his own State, but for the safety of all the neighbor
ing ones. To set ourselves loose from the rest of man
kind, to look upon ourselves as made to conquer them,
is to arm all nations against us. Why don't you re
form these unjust maxims ; Why don't you put an end
to the war? Why have you not recourse to the su^
preme council of the Amphictions, to terminate your
differences with the Tegeans?" " The reason, replied
154 The Travels of Cyrus.
Cbilo, is the obstinacy of the Tegeans ; they are so eu-
raged against us, that they refuse to submit to the ar
bitration of that council ; they breathe nothing but our
destruction ; they have engaged several cities of Pelo
ponnesus in a league against us. The notion which
is entertained of our designing to conquer all Greece,
has excited the hatred and distrust of our neighbors.
Such is the present state of Sparta."
Not many days after this, the Lacedemonians, hav
ing advice that the Tegeans were advancing towards
their frontiers, marched out of Sparta to give them bat
tle. Ahaxandrides appeared at their head in his mili
tary habit ; his casque was adorned with three birds,
of which that in the middle was the crest ; upon his
cuirass he bore the head of Medusa ; all the insignia of
the god Mars were represented upon his shield, which
was an hexagon ; and he held in his hand a staff of
command. Cyrus marched by his side ; his buckler
resembled that of Achilles ; upon his casque was an
eagle, whose plume and tail overspread his shoulders ;
upon his cuirass was engraven, in bas-relief, the god
dess Pallas, wise and warlike, to express the inclina
tions ofthe prince. Araspes and Leonidas, less mag
nificently accoutred, accompanied the two princes,
who thus left the city, followed by the Lacedemonian
troops. The whole army was formed into a square
battalion ; a double rank of cavalry inclosed a third
rank of archers, which encompassed three inner ranks
of pike-men and slingers, and left an empty space in
the centre for the provisions, ammunition and baggage.
All the soldiers marched to the sound of flutes, and
singing the hymn of Castor. The Spartan general,
knowing how fond the prince of Persia was of infor
The Travels of CyrtGs. 155
mation, entertained him in the way after the following
manner :
" Greece is divided into several republics, each of
which maintains an army in proportion to its extent.
We do not affect to bring prodigious armies into the
field, like the Asiatics, but to have well disciplined
troops ; numerous bodies are difficult to manage, and
are too expensiveto a state ; our invariable rule is to en
camp so that we may never be obliged to fight against
our will ; a small army, well practised in war, may,
by entrenching itself advantageously, oblige a very
numerous one to disperse its troops, which would oth
erwise soon be destroyed for want of provisions. When
the common cause of Greece is to be defended, all
these separate bodies unite, and then no State dare at
tack us. At Lacedemon, all the citizens are soldiers ;
in other republics, the dregs of the people are not ad
mitted into the soldiery, but the best men are chosen
out for the army, such as are bold, robust, in the flow
er of their age, and inured to laborious occupations.
The qualities required in their leaders are birth, intre
pidity, temperance, and experience ; they are obliged
to pass through the most rigid trials before they can
be raised to a command ; they must have given signal
proofs of all the different sorts of courage, as greatly
enterprising, executing with vigor, and above all, by
shewing themselves superior to the most adverse for
tune. By this means each republic has always a regu
lar militia, able officers, soldiers well disciplined
and inured to fatigues. The Spartans, in time of war,
abate somewhat of the severity of their exercises and
austerities of life ; we are the only people in the world
to whom war is a kind of repose ; we then enjoy all
156 The Travels of Cyrus.
those pleasures that are forbidden us in time of peace.
Upon a day of battle we dispose our troops in such a
manner that they do not all fight at once like the Egyp
tians, but succeed and support one another without
confusion. We never draw up our men in the same
manneras the enemy, and we always place our bravest
soldiers in the wings, that they may extend themselves
and inclose the opposite army. When the enemy is
routed, Lycurgus has required us to exercise all acts
of clemency towards the vanquished, not only out of
humanity, but policy ; for hereby we render our ene
mies less fierce. The hope of being well treated if
they surrender their arms, prevents their giving way to
that desperate fury which often proves fatal to the victo
rious.'*
While Leonidas was speaking, they arrived in the
plain of Mantinea, where they discovered the camp
of the Tegeans, which was covered on one side by a
forest, and on all the other by a terrace, with parapets,
parisadbes, and towers at certain distances. Anaxan-
drides encamped on the banks of the river Eurotas :
Leonidas gave orders, and immediately the soldiers
hung their casques on their pikes stuck in the ground,
and fell to work without putting off their cuirasses.—
The river made the camp inaccessible on one side, the
other three were surrounded by lines of circumvalla-
tion ; the waters ofthe Eurotas quickly filled the ditch
es ; portable houses were erected, the different quar
ters of the officers regularly disposed, the cavalry put
undershelter, a moveable city was raised with fourgates,
several largestreets crossed one another, and had like
wise a communication by others that were less.
The Travels of Cyrus. 157
The river Eurotas ran between the two camps, and
was a security against any surprise : Leonidas took
this opportunity to shew Cyrus the military exercise in
use among the Greeks, and made his troops often pass
in review before the prince : they were divided into
divers bodies of horse and foot ; at their head were
the Polemarchi, and the commanders of the several
corps. The soldiers were clothed in red, that in the
heat of action the sight of their blood might not terri
fy either the wounded or their companions. Upon the
least signal of their commanders, the different cohorts
separated, re-united, extended themselves, doubled,
opened, closed their ranks, and ranged themselves by
various evolutions and windings into perfect squares,
oblong squares, lozenges, and triangular figures.
The Spartans waited several days in their camp, to
take advantage of the enemy's motions. In the mean
time divisions arose among theallies ; the wisest of them
desired peace, but the greater number were eagerly
bent on war. Cyrus understanding their dispositions,
offered to go in person to the camp ofthe Tegeans, and
speak with their leaders. The king consented, and
the young prince passed the Eurotas, and advanced to
the confederates ; their chief officers assembled about
him, and he addressed them in the follewing manner:
" People of Greece, I am a stranger ; the desire of
knowing your laws, sciences, and military discipline,
has engaged me to travel among you. Your wit is
every where extolled, but I cannot admire your wisdom.
The Spartans would, be much in the wrongto make any
attempt upon your liberties ; but neither is it just in
you to endeavor their destruction. They are not afraid
of war ; they love fatigues and dangers, and are pre
21
158 TJie Travels of Cyrus.
pared for all events ; but they do not refuse to grant
you peace upon honorable conditions. I understand
that you have in Greece a wise council, whose business
it is to terminate the differences that arise between
your cities. Why have you not recourse to this coun
cil ? The mutual war you make upon each other, and
your domestic jealousies, will weaken you by degrees,
and you will fall a prey to some conqueror, emboldened
by your divisions."
All the old men looked upon one another while he
was speaking, and seemed to approve of what he said ;
their general, on the contrary, fearing lest the prince's
advice should be followed, murmured within himself ;
he was a young impetuous hero ; a martial fire spark
led in his eyes ; he had a sprightly, masculine, and cap
tivating eloquence, capable of inspiring courage in the
most timorous. When Cyrus had; done speaking, he
raised his voice and answered him thus :—" Whoever
you are, O stranger! you are unacquainted with the
boundless ambition of the Spartans ; their fundamen
tal constitution tends to destroy all the neighboring
States;. Lycurgus, their lawgiver, laid the foundation
in' Lacedemon of an universal monarchy, and inspired
his countrymen with a desire of dominion, under pre
tence that Greece cannot maintain her freedom and in
dependence while divided into so many petty repub
lics..; Ever since that time, the avaricious Spartans are
greedy of what they have not, while they refuse them
selves the enjoyment of what they have. When they
are weakened and brought low, they moderate their
ambitions desires ; but they have no sooner recovered
their strength, than they return to their old maxims ;
we can have no security but in their total destruction."
The Travels ofCyrus. 159
Scarce had he pronounced these words, when a confu
sed murmur arose among the soldiers ; the fire of dis
cord was kindled anew in their breasts, and they all
cried out, War ! war ! let the Spartans be destroyed !
Cyrus perceiving the fury which animated them, and
that they would no longer hearken to him, returned to
the camp of the Lacedemonians. They immediately
called a council of war, and it was resolved to attack
the enemy in their intrenchments. Cyrus offered to
pass the river at the head of a chosen body of cavalry,
and this being agreed to, he waited for- night to put his
design in execution ; he passed without any opposition,
and at break of day the infantry followed him on rafts
and buck-skin boats. The Tegeans taking the alarm,
left their camp, and drew up in battalia. The two ar
mies advanced with their pikes ported, each phalanx
in the closest order, buckler stuck to buckler, helmet
to helmet, man to man ; the battle began; the left
wing of the Lacedemonians, commanded by Cyrus,
quickly broke the right wing of the Tegeans ; Aras-
pes pursued the fugitives warmly, and put them out of
a condition to rally ; they fled to a neighboring fortress.
Cyrus returned with his troops to sustain the centre of
the Spartan army, which began to give way; but
while he was putting the enemy into disorder, the right
wing ofthe Spartans fled before the left of the allies ;
Leonidas, who commanded it, gained an eminence,
from which he could discover all that passed ; when he
saw the happy success of Cyrus's skill and bravery, he
encouraged his men, rallied them, and returned to
charge the enemy. The Tegeans, finding themselves
attacked both in front and rear, dispersed and fled, and
were almost all cut in pieces or taken prisoners ;. the
160 Tite Travels of Cyrus.
few that escaped in the night took refuge in the same
fortress with the others.
The battering engines and other machines, which
have since been used in attacking towns, were not then
known to the Greeks ; on these occasions they disposed
their men in a certain form, which they called a tor
toise.* The next day Leonidas gave the word ofcom
mand ; the Spartans drew up and marched to the fort
ress ; the foremost ranks covered themselves with their
square bucklers, the rest raised them over their heads,
pressed them against one another, and then gradually
bending, formed a kind of sloping roof impenetrable to
arrows. A triple stage of this sort raised the assailants
to the height of the walls. The besieged rajned down a
shower of stones and darts ; but in the end the besies-
ers made themselves masters of the fortress. Four
thousand Tegeans were slain in the two actions, and
three thousand taken prisoners.
After the battle a new council of war was called.
Leonidas, by the king's order, made encomiums upon
Cyrus in presence of all the commanders, and ascribed
the victory to his conduct and courage. All the sold
iers sent up shouts of joy, and looked upon the prince
of Persia as a divine man sent by the gods to save Spar
ta in her weak and tottering condition. It was after
wards proposed in the council to carry the Tegean
prisoners to Lacedemon, and to treat them like slaves,
as they had done the Spartans. Cyrus then rose up in
the midst of the assembly, a divine fire darted from his
eyes, wisdom descended into his heart, and he said :—
" You are going, in my opinion, to violate one of the
* Invented by Artemon of Clazomene.
[ The Travels of Cyrus. 1 61
principal and wisest laws of Lycurgus : he has enjoin
ed you to treat the vanquished with clemency ; the
right ofconquest even in a lawful war is the least of all
rights, and is neverjust but when it is made use of to
render the conquered happy. A conqueror who seeks
only to domineer, ought to be deemed an usurper upon
the rights of nations, and an enemy of mankind, who
sports with their miseries to gratify his brutal and un
natural passions. It is by reason alone that man
should subdue man ; no one deserves to be a king, but
he who engages in the toils of empire, and subjects
himself to the slavery of governing purely out of com
passion to men incapable of governing themselves. If,
therefore, you desire to become masters of Greece, let
it be only by shewing yourselves more humane and
more moderate than all the other cities. The rest of
the Grecian States, when they see your wisdom, your
courage, and your excellent laws, will be eager to put
themselves under your protection, and with emulation
sue to be received as members of your republic. It is
by these means that you will sweeten all minds, and
captivate all hearts." Anaxandrides, influenced by
this discourse, granted peace, on condition that the
Tegeans should for the future be tributary to Lacede-
mon. He detained the chief men among them as hos
tages, and carried them to Lacedemon, where he grant
ed them all the privileges of citizens.
Cyrus, at his return to Sparta, revolved in his mind
all that he had seen and heard, and formed great ideas
relating to the art of war, which he had resolved to im
prove one day in Persia. After he had thoroughly stu
died the laws, manners, and military discipline of the •
Spartans, he left Lacedemon to visit the other republics
162 The Travels of Cyrus.
of Greece. Chilo and Leonidas conducted him to the
frontiers of their country. He swore an eternal friend
ship to them, and promised to be always a faithful ally
of their republic ; and he was true to his word, for the
Persians had never any war with the Greeks in that
conqueror's time.
Cyrusresolved, before he left Peloponnesus, to visitall
its principal cities. He went first to Argos, then to My
cenae, aftewards to Sicyon, and at length stopt at Cor
inth, which was the most flourishing republic ofGreece,
after those of Sparta and Athens. As he entered the
town, he beheld with surprise all the people in mourn
ing ; several players upon flutes marched at the head
of a funeral procession, and increased the public sor
row by their plaintive sounds. Forty young girls bare
footed, their hair dishevelled, and clothed in long white
robes surrounded the bier, and melted into tears,
while they sung the praises of the dead; a little after
followed the soldiers with a slow pace, a sorrowful air,
their eyes upon the ground, and their pikes reversed ;
at their head marched a venerable old man; his noble
and military air, his tall and majestic stature, and the
bitter grief that was painted upon his face, drew the at
tention of Cyrus. The young prince having asked his
name, understood that it was king Periander, who was
conducting his son Lycophron to his tomb.
Cyrus and Araspesjoined themselves with the crowd,
which was going to a fortress called Acro-Corinthus ;
it was built upon the summit of an high mountain, from '
whence might bo seen the iEgean and Ionian seas ; for
which reason it was called, The Eye of Greece. Be
ing come to the fortress, which was the burial place of
the kings, Periander, first of all, poured wine, milk
The Travels of Cyrus. 163
and honey upon the body of his son ; he then lighted
with his own hands the funeral pile, upon which had
been poured incense, aromatics and odoriferous oils ;
he remained mute, immoveable, and with his eyes
drowned in tears, whilethe devouring flames consumed
the body. After having sprinkled the yet smoaking
ashes with perfumed liquors, he gathered them togeth
er into a golden urn, and then making a sign to the
people that he was going to speak, he thus broke si
lence :—" People of Corinth, the gods themselves
have taken care to revenge you of my usurpation, and
to deliver you from slavery ; Lycophron is dead, my
whole race is extinct, I will reign no longer : country
men, resume your rights and yourliberties." As soon as
he had said these words, he ordered all the assembly to
retire, cut off his hair to denote his sorrow, and shut
himself up in the tomb with his son. Cyrus, being
extremely affected with this sight, was very desirous to
learn the reason of it, and he received the following
account: Corinth was at first governed by kings, but
monarchy being abolished, prytanes, or annual ma
gistrates, were established in their place. This popu
lar government continued for a whole age, and Corinth
was daily increasing in wealth and splendor, when
Cypselus, the father of Periander, usurped the regal
authority. Having reigned above thirty years, and
his passions being satisfied, he began to be troubled
with remorse. Reason resumed its empire ; he reflect
ed with horror upon the crime he had committed, and
resolved to free the Corinthians from their slavery : but
death prevented him. A little before he expired, he
called Periander to him, and made him swear tore-
store his countrymen their liberty. The young prince,
164 The Travels of Cyrus.
blinded by.his ambition, quickly forgot his oath ; and
this was the. source of all his misfortunes. The Co
rinthians sought to dethrone him, and rose in arms
against him several times ; but he subdued the rebels,
and strengthened his authority more and more. His
wife being dead, he, in order to secure himself against
these popular insults, courted an alliance with Melis
sa, heiress of Arcadia, and married her ; she was the
most beautiful princess of her time, a woman of con
summate virtue and great courage.
Several years after this marriage, Periander declared
war against the Coreyreans, and put himself at the
head of his troops. The Corinthians in his absence
revolted anew. Melissa shut herself up in the fortress,
vigorously sustained the siege of it, and sent to de
mand succor of Procles, tyrant of Epidaurus, who
had always seemed a faithful ally of Periander. Pro
cles, who had long formed a project of extending his
dominion over all Greece, took advantage of this junc-
ture to seize upon Corinth ; he considered it as a city
very proper to be the capital of a great empire ; he
came before it with a numerous army, and made him
self master of it in a few days. Melissa, who was ig
norant of his designs, opened the gates of the fortress,
and received him as her deliverer, and the friend of
her husband. The tyrant, seeing himself master of
Corinth, established his residence there, and gave Pe
riander to understand that he must content himselfwith
reigning at Corcyra, which the prince had just con
quered.
Melissa quickly found that usurpation was not the
only crime of which Procles was guilty. He had en
tertained a violent passion for her, and he tried all
The Travels of Cyrus. 16-5
means to satisfy it. After having in v.ain employed
both caresses and threatenings, he inhumanely caused
her to be shut up with her son Lycophron in a high
tower, situated upon the borders of the sea. In the
meanwhile Periander was informed of Procle's treach
ery, and of his love for Melissa ; he was at the same
time assured, that she had not only favored the per
fidious designs of the tyrant, but that she answered
his passion. The king of Corinth listened too readily
to these calumnies. Possessed with the rage of jeal
ousy, he equipped a great fleet, and embarked for
Corinth before Procles could put himself in a posture
of defence. He was just entering the port, when a
violent storm arose and dispersed his ships. Melissa
knew not the sentiments of Periander, and was al
ready blessing the gods for her approaching deliverance,
when she saw part of the fleet perish before her eyes ;
the rest being driven on the coast of Africa, were
there cast away ; the only vessel that escaped the fury
of the tempest, was that where Periander was on
board.
He returned to Corcyra, where he fell into a deep
melancholy : his courage had enabled him to bear up
under the loss of his dominions, but he could not sup
port the thoughts of Melissa's imagined crime. He
had loved her and her only ; he sunk under the weight
of his grief, and his mind was disturbed to a degree of
distraction.
In the meanwhile Melissa, who was still shut up in
the tower, believed Periander dead, and wept bitterly
for him ; she saw herself exposed afresh to the insults
of a barbarous prince, who could commit the greatest
crimes without horror. While she was imploring the
22
166 The Travels of Cyrus.
help of the gods, and conjuring them to protect her
innocence, the person under whose charge Procles had
left her, being touched with her misfortunes, informed
her that Periander was living, and offered to conduct
her, with her son, to him. They all three escaped, and
travelling in the night, through by-ways, got in a few
days out of the territory of Corinth ; but they wan
dered long upon the coast of ttie Ionian sea, before
they could pass over to Corcyra. Procles, mad with
rage and despair at the escape of the queen, contrived
means to confirm Periander in his suspicions, and to
make him believe that Melissa, who would be with
him very soon, intended to poison him. The unfor
tunate king of Corinth listened with greediness to eve
ry thing that could inflame his jealousy, and increase
his rage.
In the meanwhile Melissa and Lycophron arrived
with their conductor in Corcyra, and hastened to see
Periander ; he was not in his palace, but in a gloomy
forest where he often retired to indulge his grief. He
no sooner perceived the queen at a distance, but it
awakened all his jealousy, and made him furious ; he
ran towards her ; she stretched out her arms to receive
him ; but as soon as he came near her, he drew his
da^crer, and plunged it in her bosom. She fell with
these words, " Ah Periander is it thus you reward my
love and fidelity?" She would have proceeded, but
death put an end to all her misfortunes, and her soul
flew away to the Elysian fields, there to receive the re
compense of her virtue. Lycophron beheld his moth
er weltering in her blood ; he burst into tears, and
cried out, "Revenge, just gods, revenge the death of
an innocent mother, upon a barbarous father, whom
Tlie Travels of Cyrus. 167
nature forbids me to punish !" This said, he ran away
into the wood, resolving never to see his father more.
The faithful Corinthian, who had accompanied the
queen and prince to Corcyra, let Periander then know
the innocence and fidelity of Melissa, and all the mis
eries which Procles had made her suffer in her impris
onment.
The wretched king perceived his credulity too late,
gave way to despair, and would have stabbed himself
with the same poniard, but was prevented ; he threw
himself upon the body of Melissa, and often repeated
these words ; '* Great Jupiter ! complete, by thy
thunderbolts, the punishments which men hinder me
from finishing ! Ah Melissa ! Melissa ! ought the len-
derest love to have concluded thus with the most bar
barous cruelty V It was with great difficulty he was
forced away from that fatal place, and led to his pal
ace ; he continued to refuse all consolation, and re
proached his friends with cruelty, for seeking to pre
serve a life which he detested. There was no way to
quiet his mind, but by representing to him that he
alone could punish the crimes of Procles ; this hope
soothed the anguish of his soul, and he grew calm.—
He went among all his allies representing his misfor
tunes, and the Usurper's crimes ; the Thebans lent
him troops ; he besieged Corinth, took Procles prison
er, and sacrificed him upon Melissa's tomb. But Ly-
cophron remained still at Corcyra, and refused to re
turn to Corinth, that he might not see a father who.
was the murderer of a virtuous mother, whom he had
tenderly loved. Periander dragged on the rest of his
unhappy life without enjoying his grandeur ; he- had
stabbed a wife whom he adored ; ho loved a son who
168 The Travels of Cyrus.
could not endure the sight of him. At length he re
solved to lay down his royalty, crown his son, and
retire into the island of Corcyra, there forever to la
ment his misfortunes, and expiate in retirement the
crimes he had committed. With these views he or
dered a vessel to Corcyra, to bring Lycophron to Co
rinth. The king, impatient for his son's arrival, went
often to the sea-side. The ship at length appeared ;
Periander run with eagerness upon the shore to em
brace his only son ; but how great was his surprise and
grief, when he beheld Lycophron in a coffin ! The
Corcyreans, groaning under the yoke of Periander,
whose cruelties they abhorred, had revolted ; and to
extinguish forever the tyrant's race, those barbarous
islanders had assassinated the young prince, and had
sent his dead body in the vessel as a testimony of their
eternal hatred. Periander, struck with this sad spec
tacle, entered deeply into himself, discerned the wrath
of Heaven, and cried out,. " I have violated the oath
made to a dying father ; I have refused to restore liber
ty to my countrymen. O Melissa ! O Lycophron ! O
vengeful gods ! I have but too well deserved these ca
lamities which overwhelm me !" He then appointed a
pompous funeral, and commanded all the people to be
present at it. Some days after he ordered two slaves
to go by night to a certain place, and kill the first man
they should meet, and then throw his body into the
sea : the king went thither himself, and was murdered ;
his body could never be found to receive the honors of
burial ; nor could his shade, which wanders upon the
banks of Styx, ever enter into the mansion of heroes.
What a dreadful series of crimes and misfortunes ! The
husband stabs his wife, rebellious subjects assassinate
The Travels of Cyrus. 169
their prince, the tyrant procures his own murder, and
the avenging justice of the gods pursues him beyond
the grave. How dreadful a spectacle, and how in
structive a lesson for Cyrus ! He made haste to leave a
place so full of horror.
FIFTH BOOK.
^Tr ifi7^ f& *P *!, *l* ^P VI*
CYRUS leaving Corinth, and crossing Boeotia,
entered Attica, and soon after arrived at Athens, where
Pisistratus then reigned. The young prince was seiz
ed with admiration when he beheld the edifices, tem
ples, and splendid riches ofa city where the liberal arts
flourished ; he came at length to the king's palace.
It was of a noble, but plain kind of architecture ; all the
ornaments of the building seemed necessary parts of it ;
upon the friezes were represented, in bas-relief, the la
bors of Hercules, the exploits of Theseus, the birth of
Pallas, and the death of Codrus. A vast portico of pil
lars, of the Ionic order, led into a great gallery adorned
with paintings, brass and marble statues, and with
every thing which could engage the eye and charm the
sight.
Pisistratus received the prince with joy, and made
him sit down by him. The principal senators, with
several young Athenians, seated themselves round them
upon rich carpets. A magnificent repast, according
to the mode of the country, was served up. The most
delicious wines were poured into golden cups finely
wrought; but the Athenian politeness, which seasoned
the conversation of Pisistratus, was the principal deli
cacy of the feast. During the regale, the king enter-
tertained Cyrus with a general account of the revolu
tions which had happened in the State in his time ; of
his exile, misfortunes, and restoration, after having been
twice dethroned. He dexterously painted forth, in
The Travels of Cyrus. 171
the most odious colors, all the disorders of a popular
government, that he might create an abhorrence of it.
He seasoned his discourse with historical remarks and
lively strokes of wit, which delighted all the assembly.
Thus Pisistratus artfully made use of the charms of
conversation, and of the freedom usual at banquets, to
confirm his authority, and gain the good will of the
Athenians. The senators and young men who heard
him, seemed to forget their natural aversion to mon
archy. Cyrus, by his example perceived with plea
sure the empire which princes, by their amiable qual
ities, may gain over the hearts even of those who are
the greatest enemies to their power.
The next day Cyrus signified to Pisistratus his im
patience to be acquainted with Solon, whose reputation
was spread over all Asia. This philosopher, after his
travels, had refused at first to return to Athens, because
Pisistratus had got himself declared king ; but having
understood with how much moderation he governed,
he was reconciled to him. The sage had chosen his
habitation upon Mar's-hill, where was held the famous
council of Areopagus, near the tomb of the Amazons.
Pisistratus would himself conduct the young prince
thither, and present him to the Athenian lawgiver.
Solon, though in a very advanced age, still preserved
the remains of his sprightly genius, and that cheerful
ness and those beauties of the mind which never grow
old. He embraced Cyrus with that affectionate tend
erness which is natural to old men, when young perr
sons seek their counsels and conversation in order to
learn wisdom. Pisistratus knowing that the prince's
design in visiting Solon was to inform himself thor
oughly of the Athenian laws, retired and left them
alone.
172 The Travels of Cyrus.
That they might discourse with the greater liberty,
and more agreeably the sage conducted him to the top
of the hill, where they found a delightful verdure, and
seated themselves at the foot of a sacred oak. From
this place they beheld the fertile plains and craggy
mountains of Attica, which bounded the view on one
side 'with an agreeable mixture of every thing most
smiling and wild in nature. On the other side, the
Saronicgulp, widening by degrees, opened a prospect
of several islands, which appeared to float upon the
waves. At a greater distance, the rising coasts ofAr-
golis seemed to lose themselves in the clouds, while the
Great Sea, which looked as if it touched the skies, ter
minated the view, and relieved the eye, weary with
surveying so great a variety of objects. Below was
the city of Athens, which extended itself upon the de
clivity of a hill ; the numerous buildings rose one
above another, and their different structure shewed the
different ages of the republic ; its first simplicity in the
heroic ages, and its rising magnificence in the time of
Solon. In one part might be seen temples, with sacred
groves, magnificent palaces with gardens, and a great
number of stately houses, of a regular architecture.
In another, a great manytowers, high walls and little ir
regular buildings, which discovered the warlike and
rustic taste of ancient times. The river Ilissus, which
flows near the city, and winding through the meadows,
added a thousand natural beauties to those of art. It
was in this agreeable place that Cyrus desired Solon to
give him an account of the state of Greece, and par
ticularly of Athens ; and the wise lawgiver satisfied his
curiosity in the following manner :
.
The Travels of Cyrus. 173
" All the Grecian families are descended from Hel-
len, son of Deucalion, whose three children gave their
names to the three nations of Greeks, the Cohans,
Dorians, and Ionians. These built themselves several
cities, and from these cities came Hercules, Theseus,
Minos, and all those first heroes to whom divine hon
ors are paid, in order to shew that virtue can be fully
rewarded only in heaven. Egypt first inspired the
Greeks with a taste for arts and sciences, initiated them
into her mysteries, and gave them both gods and laws.
Greece, being thus civilized, formed herself by degrees
into several republics. The supreme council of the
Amphictions, composed of the deputies of the prin
cipal cities, united them all in the same view, which
was to preserve independence abroad, and union
at home. This excellent conduct kept them clear
of an unbridled licentiousness, and inspired them
with the love of a liberty regulated by laws ; but
these pure maxims did not always subsist. Every
thing degenerates among men ; wisdom and virtue
have their vicissitudes in the body politic, as health and
strength have in the natural.
" Amongst all these republics, Athens and Lacede-
mon are without comparison the principal. The char
acter of Athens is wit, elegance, politeness, all the
amiable and social virtues. That of the Spartans is
fortitude, temperance, military virtue, and reason stript
ofall ornament. The Athenians love the sciences and
pleasures ; their great propensity is to voluptuousness.
The life of the Spartans is laborious and severe ; all
their passions have a tnrn to ambition. From the dif
ferent genius of these nations have proceeded the dif
ferent forms and revolutions oftheir governments. Ly
23
174 The Travels of Cyrus.
curgus followed the austerity of his natural temper, and
consulted the savage fierceness of his fellow-citizens
in his reformation at Lacedemon. He considered the
happiness of his country as placed iri conquest and do
minion ; and upon that plan formed all the laws of
Sparta, in which you have been instructed. It was im
possible for me to imitate him.
" Athens in the beginning had kings, but they were
such only in name, and not absolute, as at Lacedemon.
The genius of the Athenians was so different from that
of the Lacedemonians, that it made regal power insup
portable to them. The authority of their kings being
almost wholly confined to the command of their armies,
vanished in time of peace. We reckon ten from
Cecrops to Theseus, and seven from Theseus to Cod-
rus, who made a sacrifice of himself to the safety of his
country. His children, Medon and Nileus, disputed
for the throne. The Athenians took this occasion to
abolish entirely the regal power, and declared Jupiter
sole king of Athens : a specious pretext to favor rebel
lion, and to shake off the yoke of all settled authority.
In the place of kings, they created perpetual governors,
under the name of archons ; but even this faint image
of royalty appeared odious. That they might not leave
so much as a shadow of regal power, they established
decennial archons. Nor was their restless humor yet
satisfied : they reduced the duration of these magistra
cies to one year, that they might the oftener take into
their own hands the supreme authority, which they
never transferred to their magistrates but with regret.
So limited a power was but ill qualified to keep such
restless spirits within bounds ; factions, intrigues and
cabals sprung up every day. Each man, with a book
of laws in his hands, was for disputing about the sense
The Travels of Cyrus. 175
of them. Men of the most lively imaginations are
commonly the least solid, and the most apt to create
broils ; they think every thing due to their superficial
talents. Under pretence that all men are born equal,
they endeavor to confound all ranks, and preach up a
chimerical equality, only that they themselves may get
the ascendant. The council of Areopagus, instituted
by Cecrops, reverenced throughout all Greece, and so
famous for its integrity that the gods are said to have
respected its decisions, had no longer any authority.
The people judged of every thing in the last resort, but
their resolutions were not fixed and steady, because the
multitude is always humorsome and inconstant. The
smallest umbrages heightened the presumption, pro
voked the folly, and armed the fury of a multitude cor
rupted by an excessive liberty. Athens continued thus
a long time under an impossibility of extending her do
minion ; happy in being able to preserve herself from
total destruction, amidst dissensions which rent her in
pieces. Such was the situation of my country when I
undertook to remedy its calamities.
" In my first years I gave myself up to luxury, in
temperance, and all the passions of youth, and was cur
ed of them by the love of science, for which the gods
had given me a taste from my infancy. I applied my
self to the study of morality and policy, in which I
found charms that soon gave me a disgust for a loose
and and a disorderly life. The intoxication of my pas
sions being dispelled by serious reflections, I beheld
with concern the sad condition of my country ; I turned
my thoughts to provide a remedy, and communicated
my scheme to Pisistratus, who was likewise come off
from the follies of youth. You see, said I to him, the
176 The Travels of Cyrus.
miseries which threaten us. An unbridled licentious
ness has taken the place of true liberty; you are de
scended from Cecrops, and I from Codrus. We have
more right to pretend to the royal power than any
other, but let us take care not to aspire to it. It would
be a dangerous exchange of passions, to forsake
sensuality, which hurts only ourselves, in order to
pursue ambition, which might be the ruin of our
country. Let us endeavor to be serviceable to her,
without attempting to bring her under our dominion.
" An occasion soon presented to facilitate my pro
jects. The Athenians chose me to be chief of an ex
pedition against the Megarians, who had seized the
island of Salamis. I embarked with five hundred men,
made a descent upon the island, took the city, and
drove away the enemy. They still insisted on the
justice oftheir pretensions, and chose the Lacedemon
ians to be judges of it. I pleaded the common cause,
and gained it. Having by these actions acquired credit
among my countrymen, they pressed me to accept of
the regal dignity ; but I refused it, and applied myself
to cure the public evils in quality of archon.
" The first source of all those evils was the exces
sive power of the people. Monarchial authority, mod
erated by a senate, was the primitive form of govern
ment in all wise nations. I was desirous to imitate
Lycurgus in the establishment of it, but was too well
acquainted with the natural temper of my countrymen
to undertake it. I knew, that if they suffered them
selves to be stripped of the sovereign power, they
would soon take it back again by open violence ; I
therefore contented myself with setting bounds to it.—
I was thoroughly sensible, that no State can subsist
The Travels ofCyrus. 177
without some subordination. I distributed the peo
ple into four classes, and chose an hundred men out of
each class, whom I added to the council of Areopa
gus ; I shewed these chiefs, that sovereign authority,
of what kind soever, is but a necessary evil for pre
venting greater evils ; and that it ought only to be em
ployed to restrain men's passions. I represented to the
people the mischiefs they had suffered, by giving them
selves up to their own fury. By these means I dispos
ed the one to command with moderation, and the oth
er to obey with readiness.
" J caused those to be punished severely who taught
that all men are born equal, that merit only ought to
regulate ranks, and that the greatest merit a man can
have, is wit. I made the Athenians sensible of the
fatal consequences of such false maxims. I proved to
them that the natural equality which those men talked
of, is a chimera founded upon the poetical fables of
the companions of Cadmus and the children of Deu
calion ; that there never was a time, in which men
rose in that manner out of the earth, in a state of per
fect manhood ; that it was ridiculous to offer the sports
of the imagination for principles; that ever since the
golden age, the order of generation had made a ne
cessary dependence and inequality among men ; and
lastly, that paternal authority had been the first model
of all governments. I made a law, by which every man
who had given no other proof of his good sense, than
lively sallies of imagination, florid discourses, and
the talent of talking upon all subjects without going to
the bottom of any thing, was declared incapable of
public employments."
178 The Travels of Cyrus.
Here Cyrus interrupted Solon, and said to him—
" But after all, methinks merit is what ought to make
the distinction among men. Wit is the lowest sort of
merit, because it is always dangerous when alone ;
but wisdom, virtue and valor give a natural right
to govern. He alone ought to command others, who
has most wisdom to discover what is just, most virtue
to adhere to it, and most courage to put it inexeeution,"
'' Merit, replied Solon, essentially distinguishes men,
and ought solely to determine ranks ; but ignorance
and passions often hinder us from discerning it ; self-
love makes each man pretend to it ; the most deserving
are the most modest, and never seek to rule. Besides,
that which appears to be virtue is sometimes nothing but
adeceitful mask. Disputes, discord and illusion would be
endless, if there was not some rule more fixed, certain and
palpablethanmeritalone, wherebytosettleranks and de
grees. These ranks are regulated in small republics
by election, and in great monarchies by birth. I con
fess it is an evil to grant dignities where there is no re
al merit; but it is a necessary evil, and this necessity
makes the difference between the natural and civil
right. The one is always conformable to the most
perfect justice, the other is often unjust in the conse
quences, but is necessary to prevent confusion.
" It was not so under the reign of Saturn ; in that
golden age God was the universal prince and father of
all ; he himself took care of the sustenance of men,
and governed them ; he was their guardian and; s,hep-
herd ; there were^then no magistrates nor civil polity
as now, every one followed the law which is, and not
that which has been made. Under the reign of Jupi
ter, the Master of the Universe having, as it were,
quitted the reigns of his empire, hid himself in an in
The Travels of Cyrus. 179
accessible retreat ; the foundations of the world were
shaken by motions contrary to its principle and its end,
and it lost its beauty and its lustre ; then it was that
good and evil were mingled together ; ignorance and
passions made civil laws and civil magistrates neces
sary ; these laws are often imperfect, and these ma
gistrates are not always good ; butwe are obliged to ob
serve the one and submit to the other, lest the world
should fall into perpetual anarchy. All men are breth
ren, and each man has a right to whatever he has need
of: they are children of the same father, and no one
should lord it over another : but if there were not laws
established to settle ranks and property among men,
the avarice and ambition of the strongest would in-
vade all. These laws are not always founded upon what
is best in itself, butupon whatis least mischievous to so
ciety. Such is the source ofalmost all political establish
ments. Astreamust return upon earth, before merit alone
will determine the fortunes ofmen ; at present, we must
often content ourselves with less equitable decisions.
Ranks and dignities are, afterall, but the shadows of real
grandeur. The external respect which is paid to them,
is likewise but the shadow of that esteem which be
longs to virtue alone. Is it is not an instance of great
wisdom in the first lawgivers, to have preserved order
in society, by establishing such regulations, that those
who have only the shadow of virtue are satisfied with
the shadow of esteem ?"
" I understand you, said Cyrus ; sovereignty and
ranks are necessary evils to keep the passions within
bounds. The lower sort should be content with mer
iting the eternal esteem of men, by their plain and
modest virtue ; and the great should be persuaded,
180 The Travels of Cyrus.
that nothing but outward homage will be paid them,
unless they have true merit. By these means, the one
sort will not be dejected or repine at their low condi
tion, nor the other pride themselves in their grandeur ;
men will become sensible that kings are necessary, and
kings will not forget that they are men ; each man will
keep himself within his own sphere, and the order of
society will not be disturbed. I see clearly the beau
ty of this principle, and am very impatient to know
your other laws.
" The second source ofthe miseries of Athens, said
Solon, was the excessive riches of some, and the ex
treme poverty of others ; this terrible inequality in a
popular government occasioned eternal discord. I
durst not attempt to remedy this mischief, by estab
lishing a community of goods as at Sparta ; the genius
of the Athenians, which carries them to luxury and
pleasures, would never have suffered such an equality,
But in order to diminish our evils, I cancelled all debts ;
I began by remitting those which were due to me ; I
enfranchised all my slaves, and forbade any one for the
future to pledge his liberty for what he borrowed. I
never tasted so much pleasure as in relieving the mise
rable ; I was still rich, but I thought myself poor, be
cause I had not enough to distribute something to all
the unfortunate. I established at Athens this useful
maxim, that all the members of the same common
wealth ought to feel and compassionate the miseries of
one another, as part of the same body.
"The third source of our calamities was the multi
plicity of laws, which is as evident a token of the cor
ruption of a State, as a diversity of medicines is of the
distempers of bodies. Here again I could not imitate
The Travels qf Cyrus. 181
Lycurgus ; community of goods, and an equality of all
the members of a republic, render useless a great ma
ny laws and forms, which are absolutely necessary
where there is an equality of ranks and property. I
contented myself with abolishing all those laws which
served only to exercise the subtle genius of the sophists,
and the skill of the lawyers, reserving only a small
number of such as were simple, short, and clear.—
By these means I put a stop to contentious chicane,
that monstrous invention of crafty knaves to elude jus
tice. I fixed certain times for the final determination
oflaw-suits, and ordained severe and disgraceful pun
ishments for the magistrates who should lengthen them
beyond the bounds prescribed ; lastly, I repealed the
too severe laws of Draco, which punished the small
est transgressions and the greatest crimes equally with
death ; andI proportioned the punishmenttothe offence.
" The fourth source of our misfortunes was the bad
education of children ; none but superficial qualities,
wit, bright imagination and gallantry, were cultivated
in young persons ; the heart, reason, noble sentiments
and solid virtues were neglected ; the value both of
men and things was rated by appearance, and not by
reality ; the Athenians were serious about trifles, and
looked upon solid matters as too abstracted. In order
to prevent these mischiefs, I ordained that the council
of Areopagus should superintend the education of chil
dren ; I would not have them educated in such igno-
ranee as the Spartans, nor confined as before to the
study of eloquence, poesy, and those sciences which
serve only to adorn the imagination. I would have
them apply their thoughts to all those kinds of knowl
edge which help to fortify reason, habituate the mind
24
182 The Travels of Cyrus.
to attention, and are serviceable for acquiring penetra
tion and judgment; the proportion of numbers, the
calculation of the celestial motions, the structure of the
universe, the great art of knowing how to mount up
to first principles, descend to consequences, and dis
cover the whole series of truths, with their dependence
upon one another. These speculative sciences, never
theless, serve only to exercise and cultivate the mind
in early youth. The Athenians in a riper age apply
themselves to the study of the laws, policy, and his
tory, to learn the revolutions of empires, the causes
of their rise, and the occasions of their fall ; in a word,
to every thing which may contribute to the knowledge
of man and of men.*
" The fifth and last source of our evils was an im
moderate fondness for pleasure. I knew that the tem
per of the Athenians required amusements and pub
lic shows ; I was sensible that I could not subdue those
republican and untractable souls, but by making use
of their inclination towards pleasure, to captivate and
instruct them. In these public shows I caused to be
represented the fatal consequences of their disunion,
and of all the vices prejudicial to society. By this
mean multitudes of men, assembled in the same place,
were induced#o spend whole hours in hearing lessons
of sublime morality : they would have been disgusted
with dry precepts and cold maxims ; and there was no
way to-instruct, unite, and correct them. Such were
my laws and institutions."
* Pisistratus established a kind of academy for cultivating all the
sciences, and erected a library containing a collection of all the an
cient poets, philosophers nnd historians.
The Travels of Cyrus. 183
" I see very well, said Cyrus, that you have consult
ed nature more than Lycurgus has done ; but on the
other hand, have you not been too indulgent to hu
man weakness? It seems dangerous in a republic,
which has always been inclined to voluptuousness, to
endeavor the union of men by their taste for pleasures."
" I could not, replied Solon, change the nature of my
countrymen ; my laws are not perfect, but are the best
which they could bear. Lycurgus found in bis Spar
tans a genius apt to all heroic virtues ; I found in the
Athenians a bent towards allthevvices which make men
effeminate. I will venture to sav^that the laws of Spar
ta, by carrying the virtues to an extreme, transform
them into faults ; my laws, onjhe contrary,tend to ren
der even the weaknesses of men useful to society.—
This is all that policy can do ; it does not change
men's hearts, it only makes the best advantage of their
passions.
" I thought, continued Solon, to have prevented or
cured the greatest part of our evils by the establish
ment of these laws ; but the restlessness of a people
accustomed to licentiousness occasioned me daily vex
ations. Some blamed my regulations, others pretend
ed not to understand them ; some were for making ad
ditions to them, others for retrenching them. I per
ceived then how useless the most excellent laws are,
without a fixed and stable authority to put them in ex
ecution. How unhappy is the lot of mortals ! By en
deavoring to avoid the terrible evils of popular govern
ment, they run a risk of falling into slavery ; by flying
the inconveniences of regal power, they become ex
posed by degrees to anarchy. The path of just policy
is bordered on both sides with precipices. I saw that
184 The Travels of Cyrus.
as yet I had done nothing. I went therefore to Pisis
tratus, and said to him—" You see all the endeavors I
have used to cure the distempers of the State ; my
remedies are all useless for want of a physician to ap
ply them. This people is so impatient under a yoke,
that they dread the empire of reason itself ; all subjec
tion to laws is insupportable to them ; every one is for
reforming them after his own fashion ' I am going to
absent myself from my country for ten years ; I shall
avoid by that mean the perplexity and trouble to which
I am daily exposed, of spoiling the simplicity of my
laws, by adding to them and multiplying them. En
deavor to accustom the Athenians to them in my ab
sence, and suffer no alteration in them. I have refused
to accept the regal dignity which has been offered me ;
a true legislator ought to be disinterested ; but for you,
Pisistratus, your military virtues qualify you for gov
ernment, and your natural humanity will hinder you
from abusing your authority ; make the Athenians sub
jects, without making them slaves ; and restrain their
licentiousness, without taking away their liberty ;
avoid the title of king, and content yourself with that of
archon. Having taken this resolution, I went to travel
in Egypt and Asia. Pisistratus, in my absence mount
ed the throne, notwithstanding the aversion of the A-
thenians to regal power ; his address and his courage
raised him to it, and his mildness and moderation main
tain him on it ; he distinguishes himselffrom his coun
trymen chiefly by an exact submission to the laws ;
and his manner of life is plain, without pageantry and
pomp. Besides, the Athenians respect him, as he is
descended from Cecrops, and because he has only re
sumed the authority of his ancestors for the good of his
The Travels of Cyrus. 185
country. As for me, I spend my days here in solitude,
without meddling with the government ; I content my
self with presiding in the Areopagus, and explaining
my laws when any dispute arises about their meaning."
The prince of Persia saw clearly, by the discourse of
Solon, the inconveniences of a popular government,
and that despotic power in the multitude is more in
supportable than absolute authority in a single person
Cyrus having instructed himself in the laws of Solon
and the government of the Athenians, applied himself
afterwards to learn their military strength ; it consisted
chiefly in their fleets. Pisistratus conducted him to
Phaleius, a maritime town situated at the mouth of the
Ilissus ; this was the ordinary place of retreat for the
Athenian ships; for the famous port Pyraus was
made afterwards by Themistocles. They went down
the river accompanied by Araspes and several Athen
ians in a bark made on purpose : while delightful mu
sic charmed the ear and governed the motion of the
oars, the prince desired the king of Athens to give him
a more particular account, than he had done at first, of
the various revolutions which happened under his
reign. Pisistratus satisfied his curiosity in the follow
ing manner :
" You know that when I first formed the design of
making myself king, the State was rent in pieces by-
two factions ; Megacles was the head of one party, and
Lycurgus led the other ; Solon put an end to our divis
ions by his wise laws, and went soon after into Asia.
In his absence I gained the hearts of the people, and
by artifice and address obtained guards for my person ;
I made myself master of the fortress, and was pro
claimed king. In order to engage more thoroughly
186 The Travels of Cyrus.
the good will of the people, I slighted any alliance with
the princes of Greece, and married Phya, daughter of
a rich Athenian of the Pseancan tribe. Love united
with policy. Besides her surprising beauty, she had
all the qualities worthy of a throne, and all the virtues
of a noble soul. 1 had loved her in my youth, but am
bition had diverted my passion.
« I o-overned in peace for some years, but at length
the inconstancy of the Athenians signally shewed itself
anew Lycurgus raised a general murmuring against
me under pretence that I was exhausting the public
treasury to maintain useless fleets ; he artfully spread
it abroad, that my only design in augmenting our naval
strength was to make myself master of Greece, that 1
mWit afterwards invade the liberty of the Athenians ;
and he laid a plot to take away my life. He commu
nicated his design to Megacles, who abhorred the trea
son and gave me notice of it. I took all possible pre
cautions to avoid falling a victim to the jealousy of Ly
curgus The traitor, however, found means to raise
an insurrection, and the fury of the people grew to such
a hei-ht, that they set fire to my palace in the night ;
I ran to the apartment of Phya, but it was already con
sumed by the flames, and I had but just time enough to
save myself with my son Hippias ; I escaped in the
dark, and fled to the island of Salamis, where I con
cealed myselftwo whole years. I doubted not but that
Phya had perished in the flames ; and how great so
ever my ambition was, her death affected me infinitely
more than the loss of my crown.
« Durin- my exile, the animosity of Megacles
against Lycurgus revived, and their differences threw
the city again into the utmost confusion. 1 gave Me
The Travels of Cyrus. 187
gacles notice of the condition I was in, and the place of
my retreat ; he sent a proposal to me to return to Ath
ens, and offered me his daughter in marriage. In order
to engage the Athenians to come into our measures,
we had recourse to religion, and corrupted the priests
of Minerva. I left the island of Salamis ; Megacles
came and joined me at a temple some furlongs from
Athens ; he was accompanied by several senators and
a crowd of people ; sacrifices were offered, and the en
trails of the victims examined ; upon which the high-
priest declared, in the name of the goddess, that her city
could not be happy but by my restoration ; whereupon
I was crowned with solemnity. The better to impose
upon the people, Megacles chose out, from among the
young priestesses, her who was of the most majestic
stature, and armed her like the daughter of Jupiter ;
she wore the dreadful aegus upon her breast, and held
in her hand a shining lance, but her face was veiled.
I seated myself with her in a triumphal chariot, and we
were conducted to the city ; trumpeters and heralds
went before, and cried with a loud voice—" People of
Athens, receive Pisistratus, whom Minerva, resolving
to honor above all other mortals, brings back to you by
her priestess." The gates of the town were immedi
ately opened, and we went directly to the fortress where
my marriage was to be celebrated ; the priestess stept
down from her chaiiot, and taking me by the hand, led
me into the inner part of the palace. As soon as we
were alone, she took off her veil, when I perceived that
it was Phya. Imagine the transports of my joy ; my
love and my ambition were both crowned the same day ;
she gave me a brief account of her escaping the flames,
and of her rehiring to the temple of Minerva upon the
report of my undoubted death.
188 The Travels of Cyrus.
" Megacles, seeing all his projects disconcerted by
the queen's return, employed his thoughts to dispossess
me again ; he persuaded himself that I had acted in
concert with Phya to deceive him by false hopes; he
spread a rumor at Athens, that I had corrupted the
pontiff, and had abused religion to impose upon the
people. They rose in arms against me a second time,
and besieged the fortress. Phya, seeing the cruel ex
tremities to which I was reduced, and apprehending
the effects I might feel ofthe fury of a superstitious and
enraged multitude, resolved to leave me ; she thought
herself obliged to sacrifice her own happiness to that of
her country, and Minerva without doubt inspired her
to make this sacrifice. So great an example of gene
rosity filled me with admiration, overwhelmed me with
sorrow, and redoubled my love. Megacles, being in
formed of Phya's flight, offered me peace, upon con
dition that I would divorce the queen and marry his
daughter ; but I resolved to renounce my crown, rather
than be false to my duty and love. The siege was re
newed with more vigor than ever, and after a long re
sistance I was obliged to give way to the storm ; I left
Attica and made my escape into Eubcea.
" I wandered a great while in that country, till be
ing discovered and persecuted by Megacles, I retired
into the island of Naxos ; I entered into the temple of
Minerva to pay my devotion to the protectress of Ath
ens ; just as I had ended my prayer, I perceived an urn
upon the altar, and going near it, I read this inscrip
tion—" Here rest the ashes of Phya, whose love to Pis-
istratus and her country made her a willing victim to
their happiness." This mournful spectacle renewed
all my sorrows, yet could I not tear myself away from
Vie Travels of Cyrus,' 189
that fatal place ; I often went to the temple to bewail
ray misfortunes; it was my only remaining conso
lation in this lonely condition, in which I suffer
ed hunger, thirst, the inclemency of the reasons,
and all sorts of misery. One day while I was
plunged in the most melancholy reflections, and in a
profound silence, I knew not whether in a vision or a
divine dream, but the temple seemed to shake, and the
top of it to open ; I beheld Minerva in the air, in the
same form as when she came out of the head of Jupiter,
and I heard her pronounce these words in a majestic
and threatening manner—" It is thus the gods punish
those who abuse religion, by making it subservient to
their ambition." My soul was seized with a sacred
horror ; the presence of the goddess confounded me,
and laid open before my eyes all my crimes ; I contin
ued a great while without sense or motion. From that
time my heart was changed ; I discerned the true source
of all my misfortunes ; I detested that false policy
which makes use of wiles, artifice and mean dissimula
tion ; I resolved for the future to employ no methods
but what were noble, just and magnanimous, and to
make it my endeavor to render the Athenians happy, in
case the gods should he appeased, and should suffer me
to re-ascend the throne. The gods were appeased,
and delivered me from my exile. My son Hippias en
gaged the Arigans and several cities of Greece to assist
me. I went and joined him in Attica ; I first took Mar
athon, and then advanced towards Athens. The Ath
enians came out of the city to give me battle ; I sent
some children on horseback to them, to assure them
that I did not come to invade their liberties, but to re
store the laws of Solon. This moderation removed
25
190 The Travels of Cyrus.
their fears ; they received me with acclamations ofjoy,
and I ascended the throne a third time. My reign has
never since been disturbed ; but I understand that Me-
gacles, who is retired to Corinth, has engaged the Cor
inthians to lend him a fleet, and I am daily making pre
parations to withstand the invasion with which he
threatens me."
Pisistratus was in this manner discoursing with Cy
rus, when they arrived atPhalerus : the haven stretch
ed itself in form of a crescent ; great chains went
from one side to the other to be a barrier to the ships,
while several towers at certain distances served to de
fend the mole. The two princes went up with Aras-
pes to a temple of Venus built upon the summit of
mount Colias, from whence they discovered a fleet
under full sail, making towards Phalerus. Pisistra
tus presently discerned the Corinthian flag, and go
ing down to the port, went aboard his fleet, giving
orders to weigh anchor and meet the enemy. The
wind changed on a sudden and favored Pisistratus ; the
two fleets came up with each other, and were ranged
in order of battle. A forest of masts formed on one
side three lines of a vast length, whilst a triple line of
Athenian vessels, bending into the figure of a half-
moon, presented an opposite forest upon the water.
The heavy-armed soldiers were posted upon the decks,
the bowmen andslingers at the prow and poop. The
trumpet gave the signal to begin the attack ; the gal
leys on both sides first drew back, then advanced and
struck against each other with violence ; they pierced
and tore each other with their iron beaks ; some struck
against the prow, others against the poop, and others
against the sides, while those vessels which were at
The Travels ofCyms. 191
tacked presented their oars to break the violence of
the shock. The two fleets mixed, grappled, and
came to a close fight : here the Athenian soldiers flung
themselves from one ship to another, there the Corin
thians threw bridges to board the enemy.
Cyrus followed Pisistratus every where, and by his
courage supplied his want of experience in this sort of
fight. Giving way to his ardor, he would have thrown
himself into one of the enemy's ships, but fell into the
sea. Several arrows were shot at him, but he plunged
into the water, saved himself by swimming, and got
on board an Athenian galley, which Pisistratus sent to
his assistance. Ashamed of his want of dexterity, he
resolved to perish or repair his misfortune. He order
ed the rowers to advance to the vessel where Megacles
was in person ; he came up with it, and with a flaming
dart set fire to it ; the Athenian rebel endeavored to
make his escape, but perished in the fire. Pisistratus
and his captains followed the example of Cyrus; the
wind freshened, and blew high ; the flames mixed with
the waves ; the Corinthians threw themselves into the
water to escape. The sea was soon covered with men
swimming amidst rudders and rowers' seats. This
sad spectacle continued till the Corinthian fleet was
quite dispersed by the wind, or consumed by the flames.
After this action, Cyrus was wholly employed in sa
ving the lives of those who were upon the point of per
ishing. Then he returned into the port, and spent some
days at Phalerus, to observe the manner of building
ships, and to learn the names and uses of all their dif
ferent parts.
When Pisistratus had given all the necessary orders
for repairing his galleys, he. took Cyrus with him in. a
192 The Travels of Cyriis.
chariot, and returned to Athens by a terrace which ran
along the banks of the river Ilissus. By the way he
discoursed with the prince of the naval force of the A-
thenians, the schemes he had laid to augment it, the
advantages which might be drawn from it for the se
curity of Greece against foreign invasions, and lastly,
of the usefulness of commerce, with regard to the na
vy. " Hitherto, said he, the Athenians have applied
their thoughts rather to grow rich than great, and this
has been the source of our luxury, licentiousness, and
popular discords ; wherever a people carry on com
merce only to increase their wealth, the State is no
longer a republic, but a society of merchants, who
have no other bond of union than the desire of gain.—-
The generous love of their country is no longer thought
of, when the public good interferes with their private
interest. I have endeavored to prevent these mischiefs ;
our ships subsist by their trade in time of peace, and
are of service in defending our country in time ofwar :
by these means commerce contributes not only to enrich
the subject, but to augment the strength of the State:
the public good unites with the interest of each private
subject, and trade does not in the least diminish mili
tary virtue.
When Cyrus returned to Athens, Pisistratus and
Solon carried him to see their dramatic entertainments.
Magnificent theatres, pompous decorations, and the
nice rules which have been since observed, were not
then known. Tragedy was not in that perfection to
which it was brought by Sophocles, but it answered
all the views of policy for which it had been introduced.
The Greek poets, in their dramatic pieces, usually
represented the tyranny of kings, in order to strength
Tfte Travels of Cyrus. 193
en the aversion of the Athenians to regal government ;
but Pisistratus directed the deliverance of Androme
da to be acted. The poet has scattered throughout
his tragedy several strokes of panegyric, which were
the more ingenious, as they might be applied not only
to Perseus, but to Cyrus who was descended from
him. After this entertainment, Solon led the young
prince to his retreat on Mar's-hill to take a repast there ;
it was more frugal than that at the palace ofPisistratus,
but not less agreeable. During this repast, Cyrus de
sired the wise old man to explain to him the political
design and principal parts of tragedy, which he did
not yet understand.
Solon, who was himself a poet, answered—" The
theatre is a living picture of the virtues and passions
of men ; imitation deceives the mind into a belief that
the objeets are really present and not represented.—
You have formerly read our poet Homer ; the drama
is only an abridgement of epic poesy : the one is an ac
tion recited, the other an action represented ; the one re-'
countsthe successive triumphs ofvirtueover vice and for
tune; theother representstheunforeseen mischiefs caused
bythe passions ; the one may abound with the marvellous
and the supernatural, because ittreatsofheroic exploits,
which the gods alone inspire ; but in the other the nat
ural must be joined with the surprising, to shew the
genuine effects and play of human passions ; the heap
ing of wonders upon wonders transports the mind be
yond the limits of nature, but it only excites admira
tion ; on the contrary, by describing the effects of vir
tue and vice, both without us and within us, man is
brought to see and know himself, the heart is touched,
while the mind is delighted and amused. To reach
the sublime., the poot must be a philosopher ; the most
194 The Travels of Cyrus.
beautiful flowers, graces, and paintings, only please
the imagination, without satisfying the heart, or im
proving tlse understanding ; solid principles, noble
sentiments, and various characters, must be dispersed
throughout, in order to display to us truth, virtue, and
nature. Man must be represented as he is, and as
he appears in his native colors, and under his disguises,
that the picture may resemble the original, in which
there is always a contrast of virtues and imperfections.
At the same time it is necessary to conform to the
weakness of mankind ; too much moralizing tires, too
much reasoning chills the mind ; we must turn maxim
into action, convey noble sentmients by a single stroke,
and instruct rather by the manners of the hero than by
his discourse.
"These are the great rules founded upon human na
ture, and the springs which must be put in motion to
make pleasure serviceable to instruction. I foresee that
one day these rules may be improved ; hitherto I have
contented myself with making the theatre a school of
philosophy for the young Athenians, and useful to their
education. It argues an ignorance of human nature,
to think of leading it to wisdom at once by constraint
and severity. During the sprightliness and fire of
youth, there is no fixing the attention of the mind but
by amusing it; this age is always upon its guard
against precepts, and therefore, that they may be rel
ished, it is necessary to disguise them under the form
of pleasure."
Cyrus admired the great designs, both political and
moral, of the theatre, and saw clearly at the same
time that the principal rules of tragedy are not arbi
trary, but taken from nature. He thought he could
The Travels of Cyrus. 195
Dot better shew bis thankfulness to Solon for his in
structions, than by letting him see the impression they
had made upon him. "I now perceive, said he, that
the Egyptians are much in the wrong to despise the-
Greeks, and especially the Athenians. They look up
on your graces, your delicacies, and your ingenius turns,
as frivolous thoughts, superfluous ornaments, and child
ish prettinesses, which denote a puerility of mind, and
a weakness of genius, which will not suffer you to rise
higher. But I see that you have a nicer taste than
other nations, that you are better acquainted with hu
man nature, and know how to make pleasure instruc
tive. The people ofother countries are mostly affected
with bold flights, violent transports, and bloody catas
trophes. It is for want of sensibility that we do not
distinguish, like you, the different shades of human
thought and passion ; we are not acquainted with those
soft and sweet pleasures that arise from delicate senti
ments." Solon, touched with the politeness of the
prince's discourse, could not forbear embracing him
and saying, " Happy the nation that is governed by a
prince who travels over the earth and seas, to carry
back into his own country all the treasures of wisdom."
Cyrus soon after prepared to leave Athens ; and at part
ing made the same promise to Pisistratus and Solon,
which he had made to Chilo and Leonidas, of being
ever a faithful ally to Greece. He embarked with
Araspes at the port of Phalerus, in a Rhodian vessel
which was bound for Crete.
The prince's design in going thither was not only to
study the laws of Minos, but likewise to see Pythagor
as, who had stopped here in his way to Croton. AH
the eastern magi, whom that sage had seen in his trav
196 The Travels of Cyrus.
els, bad spoken of biin to the prince with encomium ;
he was esteemed the greatest philosopher of his age,
and to understand best of all men the ancient religion
ofOrpheus. His dispute with A naximander, the nat
uralist, had filled all Greece with his fame, and divided
all the learned. Araspes had been informed of this
matter by the philosophers of Athens, and during the
voyage, gave Cyrus the following account of it.
" Pythagoras, who was descended from the ancient
kings of the island of Samos, had been captivated with
the charms of wisdom from his tenderest years ; he dis
covered, even at that time, a superior genius and a
sovereign taste for truth. Not finding at Samos any
philosopher who could satisfy his eager thirst for know
ledge, he left it at eighteen years of age, to seek else
where what he could not meet with in his own country.
After having travelled for several years in Egypt and
Asia, he returned home, fraught with all the sciences
of the Chaldeans, Egyptians, Gymnosophists and He
brews ; the sublimity of his genius was equal to the
extent of his learning, and the excellent qualities of his
heart surpassed both ; his lively and fertile imagina
tion did not hinder the justness ofhis reasoning.
" Anaximander had gone from his own country, Mil
etus, to the island of Samos ; hehadall the talents which
can be acquired by study ; but his understanding was
more subtle than profound, his notions more glittering
than solid, and his deluding eloquence full of sophistry ;
he was impious in the very bottom of his soul, yet affect
ed all the outward appearances of an extravagant su
perstition ; he held as divine truths all the fables of the
poets, and stuck to the literal sense of their allegories ;
The Travels of Cyrus. 1 97
he adopted all the vulgar opinions as principles, in or
der to degrade religion, and make it monstrous.
" Pythagoras loudly opposed those mischievous
maxims, and endeavored to clear religion of those ab
surd opinions which dishonored it. Anaximander had
known Pythagoras from his infancy ; he had instructed
him in all the secrets of natural philosophy, and had
loved him with the affection of a father ; but after the
young Samian returned from his travels, the Milesian
became jealous of his talents, and resolved to ruin him
as an ingrate, who usurped upon his rights, obscured
his glory, and was like to be the oracle of Greece ; he
covered himself with the veil of a deep hypocrisy, and
accused Pythagoras of impiety ; he secretly made use
of all arts to incense the people and alarm Polycrates,
who then reigned at Samos ; he addressed himself to
all the sects of philosophers, and to the priests of the
different divinities, to persuade them that the Samian
sage, by teaching the unity of one sole principle, de
stroyed the gods of Greece. The king esteemed and
loved Pythagoras, yet he suffered himself to be deceived
by the artful representations of Anaximander. The
sage was banished from court, and obliged to quit his
country. He leads at present a retired life in the is
land of Crete, and there studies wisdom without books
or conversation. Having searched deep into all the
mysteries of nature, and discerned those marks of an
infinite wisdom and power with which every part ofthe
universe abounds, he soars upon the wings of contem
plation, that he may unite himself to the sovereign
truth, whose impressions he receives without the me
dium of words or sounds.* This inspiration, as I am
* See the notion of Simmias the philosopher in Plutarch concern
ing Socrates's genius.
26
198 The Travels of (Jyrus.
told, is nothing like that enthusiasm, which heats the
mind and agitates the body ; but it gradually stills the
noise ofthe senses, and imagination, imposes silence on
all vain reasonings, and brings the soul to an inward
calm, that resembles the repose of the gods themselves,
whose infinite activity does not in the least diminish
their perfect tranquillity. In this sublime state Pytha
goras practises all the humane and social virtues, but
it is with an ultimate regard to the gods, and an imita
tion of their veracity and goodness ; he is modest, af
fable, polite, delicate in all his sentiments, disinterested
in all his actions, speaks little, and never displays his
talents but to inspire the love of virtue."
This account of the Samian philosopher gave Cyrus
a greater desire to see him, and to learn the particulars
of his dispute. The wind continued favorable, and
the vessel in a few days made the island of Crete.
SIXTH BOOK.
**********
CYRUS no sooner arrived in Crete, but he went
straight to Gnossus, the capital of that island, famous
for the wonderful labyrinth made by Dedalus, and the
stately temple of Jupiter Olympius. This god was
there represented without ears, to show that the sover
eign Lord of the universe has no need of bodily organs
to hear the complaints and prayers of men. The tem
ple stood within a large inclosure in the midst of a sa
cred wood ; the entrance into it was through a portico
of twenty pillars of oriental granite ; the gate was of
brass, and finely carved, and was adorned on the sides
with two large figures, the one representing truth, the
otherjustice. The fabric was an immense arch, which
let in light only at the top, in order to hide from the
eye all objects abroad except the heavens. The inside
was a peristyle ofporphyry and Numidian marble. At
certain distances one from another were several altars
consecrated to the celestial gods, with the statues of
terrestrial divinities between the pillars ; the dome was
covered on the outside with plates of silver, and adorn
ed on the inside with the images of heroes, who had
been deified for their merit.
Cyrus entered this temple ; the silence and majesty
of the place filled him with awe and respect. He
prostrated himself, and adored the divinity present.
He had learnt from Zoroaster that the Jupiter Olym
pius of the Greeks was the same with the Oromazes
of the Persians, and the Osiris of the Egyptians. He-
then cast his eye over all the wonders of art which
200 The Travels of Cyrus.
beautified this place ; he was less struck with the rich
ness and magnificence ofthe altars, than with the noble
ness and expression of the statues. As he had learnt
the Greek mythology, he could easily distinguish all
the divinities, and discern the mysteries couched in the
allegorical figures that were before him. What drew
his attention more especially, was to see that each of
the celestial deities held in his hand a golden tablet :
upon these tablets were written the exalted ideas of
Minos in religion, and the several answers which the
oracle had given that lawgiver, when he consulted
them about the nature of the gods, and the worship they
required.
Upon the the tablet of Jupiter Olympius were to be
read these words : " I give being, life and motion to all
creatures ; no one can knoic me, but he who seeks to re
semble me." Upon that of Pallas : " The gods make
themselves known to the heart, and conceal themselves
from those who endeavor to comprehend them by the un
derstanding alone." Upon that of the goddess Urania :
" The divine laws are not chains to fetter us, but wings
to raise us to the bright Olympius." Upon that of the
Pythian Apollo was this ancient oracle : " The gods
take less delight to dwell in heaven than inthe soxdof the
just, which is their true temple" While Cyrus was
meditating on the sublime sense of these inscriptions, a
venerable old man entered the temple, prostrated him
self before the statue of Harpocrates, and remained
there a long time in profound silence. Cyrus suspected
it to be Pythagoras, but durst not interrupt his devotion.
Pythagoras (for it was he) having paid his homage to
the gods, rose up and perceived the two strangers.
He imagined, that in the air and mien of Cyrus he saw
The Travels of Cyrus. 201
i
the same marks which Solon had described, when he
gave him notice of the young prince's intended voyage
to Crete ; he accosted him with a salutation, and made
himself known.
The Samian sage, that he might not disturb the si
lence which ought to be observed in a place dedicated
to the adoration of the immortal gods, led Cyrus and
Araspes into the sacred wood adjoining to the temple.
Cyrus then said to him—" What I have seen upon the
golden tablets, gives me a high notion of your religion ;
I made haste to come hither, not only to be instructed
in the laws of Minos, but to learn from you the doctrine
of Orpheus about the golden age. I am told, that it
resembles that of the Persians concerning the empire of
Oromazes, and that of the Egyptians relating to the
reign of Osiris ; it is a pleasure to see the traces of
those great truths in all nations ; vouchsafe to unfold
to me your ancient traditions. " Solon, replied Pytha
goras, acquainted me with your design of coming into
this island ; I was going to Croton, but I have put off
my voyage, to have the pleasure ofseeing a hero, whose
birth and conquests have been foretold by the oracles
of almost all nations ; I will conceal nothing from you
of the mysteries of wisdom, because I know that you
will one day be the lawgiver of Asia, as well as its con
queror. After this they sat down near a statue of Mi
nos in the sacred wood, and the philosopher rehearsed
to them all the mythology of the first Greeks, making
use of the poetic style of Orpheus, which by its paint
ings and images rendered sensible the sublimest truths.
" In the golden age, the inhabitants ofthe earth lived
in a perfect innocence. Such as are the Elysian fields
for heroes, such was then the happy abode of men ; the
202 The Travels of Cyrus.
intemperature of the air, and the war of the elements,
were unknown ; the north winds were not yet come
forth from their deep grottos ; the zephyrs only enliven
ed all things with their soft and gentle breezes ; neith
er the scorching heats of summer, nor the severities of
winter, were ever felt ; the spring crowned with flow
ers, and the autumn loaded with fruits, reigned to
gether : death, diseases and crimes durst not approach
those happy places. The soul was not then imprison
ed in a gross mortal body, as it is now ; it was united to
a luminous heavenly body, which served it as a vehicle
to fly through the air, rise to the stars, and wander ov
er all the regions of immensity. Sometimes those first
men, reposing themselves in odoriferous groves, tasted
all the purest pleasures of friendship ; sometimes they
sat at the tables of the gods, and were feasted with
nectar and ambrosia; at other times Jupiter, attended
by all the divinities, mounted his winged chariot, and
conducted them above the heavens. The poets have
not celebrated, nor known that highest place ; it was
there that the souls beheld truth, 'justice and wisdom in
their source ; it was there that with the eyes ofthe pure
spirit they contemplated the first Essence, of whose
brightness Jupiter and the other gods are but so many
rays ; there they were nourished with beholding that
object, till being no longer able to support its splendor,
they descended again to their ordinary abode. The de
ities at that time took pleasure in conversing with
men ; the shepherdesses were loved by the gods, and
the goddesses did not disdain the love of shepherds ;
the graces accompanied them every where, and these
graces were the virtues themselves. But alas ! the
golden age wa* of no long duration.
Tfie Travels of Cyms. 203
" One day men neglected to follow Jupiter's chari
ot, stayed in the fields of Hecate, got drunk with nec
tar, lost their taste for pure truth, and separated the
love of pleasure from the love of order. The shep
herdesses viewed themselves in fountains, and became
idolaters of their own beauty ; each had her thoughts
wholly taken up about herself. Love forsook the earth,
and together with him all the celestial divinities dis
appeared. The sylvan gods were changed into satyrs,,
the Napaese into Baccha;, and the Naiades into syrens ;
the virtues and the graces were no longer the same ;
and self-love, the parent of all vices, begot sensuality,
the source of all miseries. Nature was quickly trans
formed in this lower sphere. The sun had no longer
the same force, nor the same mildness ; its light was
obscured ; our globe fell to ruins, the abyss was open
ed and overflowed ; it was divided by seas into islands
and continents ; the fruitful hills became craggy rocks,
and the delightful valleys frightful precipices. Noth
ing remained but ruins of the old world drowned in the
waters. The wings of the soul were dipt ; its subtle
vehicle was broken ; and spirits were thrown down in
to mortal bodies, where they undergo divers transmi
grations till they are purged of their crimes by expia-
atory pains. The ethereal body was contracted, im
prisoned, and buried in a living sepulchre, a coarse
covering, which is ever changing, which does not con
tinue one moment the same, and is something merely
accidental to our substance. The immortal seed, the
incorruptible body, the subtle vehicle is at present the
seat of the soul, and the channel of communication
between the pure spirit and the gross body, the hidden
spring of all the motions and operations of our walking
204 The Travels of Cyrus.
carcass. It was thus that the iron age succeeded to the
golden, and it will last ten thousand years ; during
which time Saturn conceals himself in an inaccessible
retreat ; but in the end he will resume the reins of his
empire, and restore the universe to its original splen
dor. All souls will then be reunited to their principle.
This, continued Pythagoras, is the allegory by which
Orpheus has made us understand the first condition of
man, and the misery into which he is fallen. Our mor
tal body is the punishment of our crimes, and the dis
order of our heart is an evident proof of our being de
graded."
" I perceive, said Cyrus, that the principles of Zo
roaster, Hermes and Orpheus are the same. Their al
legories abound with the sublimest truths ; why then
will yourpriests reduce all to an outward worship ? They
have spoken to me of Jupiter only as of a lawgiver
who promises his nectar and ambrosia, not to solid
virtues, but to the belief of certain opinions, and the
observance of some ceremonies which are of no use
cither to enlighten the mind, or to purify the heart."
"The corruption and avarice of the priests, replied
Pythagoras, is the source of all these mischiefs. The
ministers of the gods, who were established at first to
make men good, turn the priesthood into a vile trade ;
they only mind the outward show of religion. The vul
gar, not understanding the mysterious meaning of the
sacred rites, fall into a gross superstition, while the
bold wits give themselves up to impiety. Some des
pise even the purest antiquity ; others deny the neces
sity of an outward worship ; others arraign the eter
nal Wisdom because ofthe evils and crimes which hap
pen here below. Anaximander and his audacious
The Travels o/Cyrm. 205
school actually spread abroad at this time throughout
all Greece, that God and Nature are the same thing.
Every one forms a system after his own fashion, with
out respecting the doctrine of the ancients."
When Cyrus heard him name Anaximander, he said
to hi«i—" I have been informed of the cause of your
disgraee and exile ;, and have: a great desire to know
the particulars of your dispute with the Milesian philo
sopher ; tell me in what mannor you combatted this
doctrine. It may help very much to preserve me from
those dangerous maxims. I have already seen at Ee-
batana several magi who talked the same language
with Anaximander : the errors of the human mind are
pretty near the same im all countries, and in all times."
" The particulars of that dispute, answered Pythago
ras, will be long, but I shall not affect to shorten them,
lest I should become obscure. Upon my return to Sa-
mos, continued the philosopher, after my long travels,
I found that Anaximander, who was now advanced in
years, had spread every where his impious doctrine.—
The young people had embraced it ; the love of novel
ty, the inclination to flatter their passions, the vanity of*
thinking themselves wiser than other men. had blinded
their understandings, and drawn them into these er
rors. In order to remedy these mischiefs, I attacked
the principles of the Milesian ; he made me be cited
before a tribunal of pontiffs in the temple of Apollo,
where the king and all the people of the city were as
sembled ; he began, by representing my doctrine un
der the most odious form, gave false and malicious
turns to my words, and endeavored to make me sus
pected of the impiety of which he himself was guilty.
I then rose up and spoke iu the following manner
27
206 The Travels of Cyrus.
*' O king! image of the great Jupiter! priests of
Apollo 1 and you citizens of Samos ! hearken to me,
and judge of my innocence; I have travelled among
all the different nations of the universe to learn wis
dom, which is only to be found in the traditions of the
ancients ; I have discovered, that from the origin of
things men adored but -one sole eternal Principle ; that
all the gods of Greece are bnt different names to ex
press the attributes of the Deity, or the properties ofna
ture, which is the image of him. All that we can con
ceive of the Supreme Essence presents itself to the
mind under the three forms of goodness, wisdom, and
power ; the sovereign good, the principle of all beings,
the intelligence which designed the plan of the world,
and the energy which executed it. The Orientals call
these three forms Oromazes, Mythra, and Mythras ;
the Egyptians, Osiris, Isis, and Orus ; the Thracians,
Uranus, 'Urania, and Love ; the Tyrians, Belus, Ve
nus, and Thammuz ; the Greeks, Jupiter, Minerva,
and Apollo. Sometimes we represent these three
forms of the Divinity by the principal parts of nature,
. as 'the sun, the moon, and the earth, and we call them
Phoebus, Phoebe, and Pan ; at other times by the ele
ments of fire, air, and water, and we style them Vul
can, Juno, and Neptune; one . while by that prolific
virtue which produces wine, corn, and fruits, and they
are called Bacchus, Ceres, and Vertumnus ; often by
the justice they exercise in the infernal regions, and
they bear the names of Pluto, proserpine, and Minos, f
Moreover, the first form of Divinity is represented by
his eternity, as he is the most ancient of all beings, and
we call it Coelus, Chronus, and Saturn. The second
form by his fecundity! as containing the seeds of all
The Travels of Cyrus. 207
things, and we style it Rhea, Vesta, and Cytale. The
third form by the authority he excersises in the govern
ment ofthe world, and we call it Mars as the arbiter of
war, Mercury as the ambassador of the supreme God,
Hercules as a hero who purges the earth of monsters.
Thus we express the three attributes of the Deity,
which comprehend the totality of his nature by ths
original Father, the Author of all beings, the immortal
Virgin, the mother of nature, and the son of Jupiter,
the emanation from those two principles. All these
names nevertheless denote but one and the same power,
which drew all beings visible and invisible out of no
thing ; but mankind have confounded the work with
the artificer, the image with the original, the shadow
with the substance; they have forgotten the ancient
doctrine, they have lost the meaning of our allegories,
and stop at the outward symbols without entering into
the spirit of them. This is the source of those num
berless errors which prevail at present throughout all
Greece, degrade religion, and render it contemptible.
Moreover, I find that it is a stedfast maxim in all na
tions, that.men: are not what they were in the golden
age, that they are debased and degraded, and that re
ligion is the only means to restore the soul to its origi
nal grandeur, to make her wings grow again, and to
raise her to the ethereal regions from whence she is
fallen. It is necessary first to become man by civil
and social virtues, and then to resemble the gods by
that love ofthe sovereign Beauty, Order and perfection,
which makes us love virtue for itself. This is the only
worship worthy of the immortals, and this is all my
doctrine."
20S Ite Travek of Cyru*.
Anaximander then rose up in the midst of the as
sembly ; his age, talents and reputation gained him a
silent and universal attention. " Pythagoras, said he,
destroys religion by his refinements ; his love of order
is a chimera ; let us consult nature, let us search into
all the secret recesses of man's heart, let us interrogate
men of all nations, we shall find that self-love is the
source of all our actions, all our passions, and even all
our virtues. Pythagoras loses himself in his abstract
rfasonings ; I keep to simple nature, and there I find
my principles ; the feeling and sentiment of all hearts
authorises my doctrine, and this kind of proof is the
shortest and most convincing."
" Anaximander, answered I, substitutes irregular
passions in the room of noble sentiments ; he always
represents what men ordinarily do, as the standard of
what they ought to do ; but the weakness of nature,
blinded and enfeebled by the passions, is not the rule
of nature, enlightened and foitified by the sovereign
reason ; he affirms boldly, but lie proves nothing.
This is not my method ; my proofs are these ; they seem
to me clear and solid. The sovereign will of the great
Jupiter ought to be the universal rule of our will ; he
loves all beings more or less, in proportion to their re
semblance to him ; it is the degree of this resemblance
which constitutes the beauty, truth and goodness of
each intelligence. The father of gods and men loves
himself as the sovereign good, and all other beings as
his emanations ; and this should be our rule. Self-love,
to be regular, must be the effect, and not the cause of
our love for the. supreme good ; the love of the infin
itely great should be the ground of our love for the'iN-
finitely little ;. the love of the original, the motive of
The Travels of Cyrus. 209
oar love for the pictures. This is the eternal law, the
immutable order, and the love of the sovereign beauty."
Anaximander interrupted me with a disdainful smile,
and answered—" Pythagoras imposes on you by words
without meaning, by abstracted ideas that are of no
use in social life, by chimeras hatched in the empty
brain of idle sophists, who exhaust themselves in vain
speculations. What is this eternal law ? this order
conformable to it? this love of the sovereign beauty
with which he continually dazzles our eyes ? let him
explain himselfclearly, and all his fine-spun notions
will vanish into smoke."
" The law, replied I, is the intelligence which pro
duced all things, the sovereign reason of the great Ju
piter, the divine Minerva, who incessantly springs from
his head. The order conformable to this law is found
ed upon the different degrees of reality which the all-
producing Spirit has given to his works, the immutable
relations and essential differences which are between
them. The love conformable to this order, is to prefer
that which is more perfect to that which is less so, not
only in all kinds, butjin the several species and individ
uals. Lastly ; the sovereign beauty has no perfect sim
ilitude with any thing we behold on earth, or in the
heavens ; whatever else is beautiful, is only so by a
participation of its beauty ; all other beauties may in
crease, decay, change or perish, but this is still the
same in all times and in all places ; it is by contem
plating the different degrees of transient, variable and
finite beauty, and by carrying our thoughts beyond
them all, that we at length reach to that supreme beau
ty, which is simple, pure, uniform, immutable, without
color, figure or human qualities. Anaximander pre
210 . The Travels of Cyrus.
tends this doctrine is a chimerical idea, and a vain re
finement which has no influence in social life, but all
the philosophers and legislators have thought other
wise ; Hermes, Orpheus and Minos laid it down as a
fundamental principle, that man must prefer the public
good to his private interest, from the sole love of good
ness, justice and perfection. It was to this order that
Codrus thought himself bound to sacrifice not only his
crown but his life ; his view in conforming to this order,
was not to render him happy ; on the contrary, he be
lieved it his duty to devote himself to death, and to
make no account of himself, because the love of order
exacted it. If we can love nothing but with reference
to ourselves, each member of society will come by de
grees to consider himself as an independent being made
for himself; there will be no reason to sacrifice private
interest to public good ; noble sentiments and heroic
virtues will be destroyed. Nor is this all ; every con
cealed crime will soon be authorised ; if virtue be not
amiable for itself, each man will forsake it when he can
hide himself from the eyes of the public : he will com
mit all crimes without remorse, when interest carries
him to it, and he is not withheld by fear ; and thus is
all society dissolved. Whether, therefore, you consid
er religion or policy, both conspire to prove my doc
trine."
Here Anaximander answered—" Pythagoras is un
acquainted with the nature of the soul ; the desire of
happiness constitutes the essence of the will ; pleasure
is the great law both of mortal and immortal natures,
its attractive force is irresistible, and it is the only mov
ing spring of man's heart ; the sight of perfection acts
upon us only by the pleasing sensation it causes in us,"
The Travels of Cyrus. 21 1
K We always love with pleasure, answered I, but
we do not always love for the sake of pleasure. As
the delight which accompanies the perception of truth
is not the reason why we acquiesce in truth, so the
pleasure which accompanies the view of order is not
the reason why we love justice. That which deter
mines the pure act of the will, both in the one and the
other case, is the perception of the immutable relations
and essential differences between beings; to know
these relations and these differences is truth ; to act ac
cording to these relations and differences is virtue.
We may follow justice for the good it procures us, but
we cannot love it but for itself, that only, for the sake of
which we love, being properly the object of our love.
As the most unjust of all men would he be, who, while
he committed all sorts of crimes, should pass for just,
and so enjoy the honors of virtue and the pleasures of
vice ; so the perfectlyjust man would be he who should
love justice for itself, and not for the honors and plea
sures which accompany it ; who should pass for unjust
while he practised the most exact justice ; who should
net suffer himself to be moved by ignominy, distress,
or the most cruel sufferings, but should continue sted-
fast in the love ofjustice, not because it is delightful,
but because it is just. It is thus that the gods do good
from the pure love of good ; the soul is an image of
their substance, consequently she may imitate them,
and love virtue for itself; the perception of truth may
act as strongly upon her as the sensation of pleasure.
" Ever since the iron age began, men are so blinded
that they do not comprehend this sublime love of vir
tue ; the philosophers themselves arrive to it but by
slow degrees ; wisdom in purifying the heart, accom
212 The Travels of Cyrus.
modates herself to the weakness of our distempered
and imperfect nature. The divine Themis inebriates
us at first with heavenly delights to counterbalance in
us the weight of terrestrial pleasures. She allures us
by a sweet smile, enchants us by her charming looks,
transports us by the amiable truths she presents to the
mind ; we then adhere to virtue for the sake of those
sweets that accompany it. But in proportion as the
soul withdraws from outward objects, her love be
comes more exalted, more delicate and more generous ;
she enters deeply into herself, concenters all her pow
ers, and retires into her spiritual nature ; she sees alt
the windings and turnings of the heart, she discovers
all the enormities of her self-love, which made her
refer all her virtue to herself, and practise them only
out of vanity, that she might become the idol of men
by an usurpation upon the rights of the gods ; she suf
fers inexpressible pains to expiate these secret iniqui
ties ; she at length gets out of herself, rises above her
self, separates and disengages herself from every tiling,
that she maybe united to the immutable Beauty, and
behold him with that eye with which alone he can be
seen : then it is that she brings forth, not the shadows
of virtue, but the virtues themselves, she becomes im
mortal, and the friend of God. Such is the immuta
ble law of Themis ; the human virtues are acquired
with pleasure, but deification only by sufferings, and
by being stript of every thing that is mortal and terres
trial in us. It was thus that Hercules found exquisite
pleasures in his twelve labors, and in all the exploits
of an heroic virtue ; but he was not deified till he had
passed through the purifying flames of Themis, which
your poets have represented by those of his funeral pile
The Travels of Cyrus. 213
on Mount CEta. They consumed the poisoned robe
of the Centaur, of the monster Typhon, and of the
evil principle, which that son of Jupiter had put on
to give us an example of perfect virtue ; in the
midst of the devouring flames, he rejoiced at the de
struction of all that he had received from his mother
Alcmene ; the sight of the immutable order so ravish
ed and transported him out of himself, that he could
not give a thought to his own happiness."
Here Anaximander cried out with fury, " Pythago
ras is ignorant of the history of the gods ; he says we
must resemble them ; they swim in delights above, and
descend upon earth only to please themselves with the
terrestrial goddesses ; Jupiter himself is an instance of
it ; to imitate them, is to pursue pleasure. Pythago
ras artfully endeavors to create in you a brutal indiffer
ence for the feast of thegods, make you despise nectar
and ambrosia, and destroy in you the invincible desire
of happiness natural to all intelligences ; I give you
warning of the horrible consequences of his system,
beware of his sophistry."
" Justice, replied I, with an intrepid air, is amiable
for itself; ifwe love it only for the advantages it procures
us, we are not good, but politic ; it is the highest injustice
to love justice only for the sake of reward ; to aspire to
the table of the gods merely to please and delight our
selves, is not to love the sovereign good ; it is to de
grade it, and make it subservient to our interest. It
was thus that souls fell from the sublime place in heav
en ; they loved nectar and ambrosia more than truth,
and separated the love of pleasure from the love of or
der. To love the sovereign Beauty only as beneficent,
28
214 The Travels of Cyrus.
is to love him for a finite participation of his. gifts ; it is
to love him for what he does in us, and not for what he
is in himself ; it is to separate the sovereign goodness
from the supreme justice : to love the immutable Beau
ty for Lis perfection, is to love him for his immense to
tality; it is to love him for what we know of him, not
for what we feel of him ; it is to love without measure
the Being without limits ; and it is this love which di
lates, elevates, deifies, and gives a kind of immensi
ty to the soul. I maintain, therefore, with all the an
cients, that we are not to desire admittance to the ta
ble of the gods, but as a state in which we are united
to the sovereign Beauty, transformed into bis image
and perfected in his love. Is Olympius less the object
of our desire because we desire it from a motive wor
thy ofthe gods? Do we love the gods the less, because
we prefer their friendship to the nectar that is drunk at
their table ?
" O Samians ! Anaximander endeavors not only to
cloud your minds, but to corrupt your manners ; he
deceives you by sticking to the literal sense of your my
thology. The gods, who are exempt from human frail
ties, do not descend upon earth to satisfy any passions ;
all that wise antiquity tells Us of the amours of Jupiter
and the other divinities, are but an ingenious allegory
to represent the pure communications of the gods with
mortals since the iron age. Your philosophers always
describe virtue to us as a divine energy descending
from heaven ; they continually speak of guardian dei
ties, who inspire, enlighten and strengthen us, to shew
that heroic virtues can proceed from the gods alone ;
but those poets who seek only to please and to strike
}--m '
The Travels of Cyrus. 21-5
the imagination, by heaping wonders upon wonders,
have disfigured your mythology by their fictions."
Here Anaximander cried out again, with an air of
Zealand enthusiasm—" Will you suffer, O Samians !
your religion to be thus destroyed, by turning its mys
teries into Allegories, blaspheming against the sacred
books of your poets, and denying the most undoubted
facts of tradition 1 Pythagoras overthrows your altars,
your temples and your priesthood, that he may lead
you to impiety, under pretence of destroying super
stition." A confused murmur immediately arose in
the assembly : they were divided in their sentiments :
the greatest part of the priests called me impious, and
an enemy of religion. Perceiving then the deep dis
simulation of Anaximander, and the blind zeal of the
people, who were deluded by sophistry, it was impos
sible for me to contain myself, and raising my voice F
said :
" O king, priests and Samians,* hearken to me for
the last time. I would not at first lay open the myste
ries of Anaximander's monstrous system, nor endeav
or in a public assembly to render his person odious, as
he has labored to do mine ; hitherto I have respected
his grey hairs> but now that I see the pit of destruction
into which he seeks to hurry you, I can no longer be
silent, without being false to the gods and to my coun
try. Anaximander seems to you to be zealous for re
ligion, but in reality he endeavors to destroy it. Hear
what his principles are, which he teaches in secret to
those who will listen to him. There is nothing in the
universe but matter and motion : in the fruitful bosom
of an infinite matter every tiling is produced by an eter
nal revolution of forms ; the destruction of some is tlu
216 The Travels of Cyrus.
birth ofothers ; the differentranging ofthe atoms is what
alone makes the different sorts of minds, but all is dissi
pated and plunged again into the same abyss after death.
According to Anaximander, that which is now stone,
wood, metal, may be dissolved and transformed not on
ly into water, air, and pure flame, but into rational
spirit. According to him, our own idle fears have dug
the infernal pit, and our own scared imagination is the
source ofthose famous rivers which flow in gloomy Tar
tarus ; our superstition has peopled the celestial re
gions with gods and demigods, and it is our vanity
which makes us imagine that we shall one day drink
nectar with them ; according to him, goodness and
malice, virtue and vice, justice and injustice, are but
names which we give to things as they please or dis
please us ; men are born vicious or virtuous, as tygers
are born fierce, and lambs mild ; all is the effect of an
invincible fatality, and we think that we choose, only
because the sweetness of pleasure hides the force
which irresistibly draws us. This, O Samians ! is the
dreadful precipice to which he leads you."
While I was speaking, the gods declared themselves.
Before the dispute, the high-priest of Delphos had been
consulted about my doctrine ; his decisions are always
agreeable to the will of the great Apollo ; the answer
he sent to the priests of Samos was this—" You ac
cuse Pythagoras of erring through an excess of love
for the supreme Beauty, and I accuse you of erring
through a want of friendship for your fellow-citizens ;
the God whom I serve equally abhors those who aspire
not to the pleasures ofOlympius, and those who desire
them only to gratify their passions; mortals have often
need to think of nectar and ambrosia, in order to reject
The Travels of Cyrus. 217
the enchanting cup ofCirce, which transforms men in
to hogs ; but when the goddess Minerva descends into
heroes, they perform noble actions from noble motives ;
pure pleasures accompany them, glory environs them,
immortality follows them, but virtue alone is their ob
ject." Scarce had they read this answer ofthe pontiff,
when a divine voice seemed to come from the innermost
part ofthe temple, and to say—" The gods do good for
the sole love of good, you cannot honor them worthily,
but by resembling them." The priests and the multi
tude, who were more struck with the prodigy than they
had been with the truth, changed their sentiments, and
declared in my favor. Anaximander perceived it, and
imagining that I had corrupted the pontiffs, in order to
delude the people, hid himselfunder a new kind of hy
pocrisy, and said to the assembly—" The oracle has
spoken, and I must be silent. I believe, but I am not
yet enlightened ; my heart is touched, but my under
standing is not convinced ; I desire to discourse with
Pythagoras in private, and to be instructed by his reas
oning." Being moved and softened with Anaximand-
er's seenping sincerity, I embraced him with tears of
joy, in the presence of the king and the pontiffs, and
conducted him to my own house. The impious wretch,
imagining that it was impossible for a man of sense not
to think as he did, believed that I affected this zeal for
religion, only to throw a mist before the eyes of the
people, and gain their suffrages. We were no sooner
alone, than he changed his style, and said to me—
" The dispute between us is reduced to this question,
whether the eternel Nature acts with wisdom or de
sign, or takes all sorts of forms by a blind necessity?
Let us not dazzle our eyes with vulgar prejudices ; a
218 The Travels of Cyrus.
philosopher cannot believe, but when he is forced to it
by a complete evidence ; I reason only upon what 1 see,
and I see nothing in all nature, but an immense matter
and an infinite activity ; this active matter is eternal :
now an infinite active force must, in an eternal dura
tion, of necessity give all sorts of forms to an immense
matter ; it has had other forms than what we see at
present, and it will take new ones ; every thing has
changed, and does change, and will change, and this is
sufficient for the production not only of this world, but
of numberless worlds invisible to us."
1 " What you offer, replied I, is nothing but sophistry
instead of proof. You see nothing in all nature, say
you, but an infinite activity and an immense matter.
I allow it ; but does it follow'from thence, that the in
finite activity is a property of matter 1 Matter is eternal
(add you,) and it may be so, because the infinite forces
which is always acting may have always produced it ;
but do you conclude from thence, that it is the only ex
isting substance 1 1 shall agree also that an all-power
ful, active force may, in an eternal duration, give all
sorts offorms to an immense matter ; but is tHfe a proof
that force acts by a blind necessity, and without design ?
Though I should admit your principles, I must deny
your consequences, which seem to me absolutely false.
My reasons are these :
" The idea which we have of matter does not in
clude that of active force ; matter does not cease to be
matter when in perfect rest ; it cannot restore motion
to itself when it has lost it ; from whence I conclude
that it is not active of itself, and consequently that in
finite force is not one of its properties. Further, I per
ceive in myself, and in several beings with which I am
The Travels of Cyrus. 219
encompassed, a reasoning principle which feels, thinks,
compares and judges. Motion only changes the situ
ation or figure of bodies ; now it is absurd to suppose,
that matter, without thought and sensation, can become
sensible and intelligent, merely by shifting its place, or
changing its figure , there is no connexion between
these ideas. I allow that the the quickness of our sen
sations depends often upon the motion of the humors in
the body, and this proves that spirit and body may be
united, but by no means that they are the same ; and
from the whole i conclude, that there is in nature anoth
er substance besides matter, and consequently that
there may be a sovereign intellect much superior to
mine, to yours, and to those of all other men. In order
to know whether there be such an intellect, I sally out
ofmyself, I run over all the wonders of the universe, I
observe the constancy and regularity of its laws, the
fruitfulness and variety ofits productions, the connexion
and suitableness of its parts, the conformation of ani
mals, the structure of plants, the order ofthe elements,
and the revolutions of the heavenly bodies ; I cannot
doubt but that all is the effect of art, contrivance, and
a superior wisdom : I then draw a veil over all the be
ings with which I am encompassed ; I consider them
only as phantoms, mere appearances and illusions: I
shut my eyes', I stop my ears, I return again into my
self, to consider that reasoning principle which I have
already proved not to be material, which might subsist
though all bodies were annihilated, and which shews
me all objects, without presenting them to my view
Since there cannot be an eternal succession of effects
without a cause, it follows necessarily, that he who
made this intelligent principle must he himself intelli
220 The Travels of Cyrus.
gent ; hence I conclude that the infinite force which
you acknowledge to be in nature is a sovereign intelli
gence. When I thus return into myself, I again per
ceive the great Jupiter whom you hide from my eyes ;
I find myselfat present alono with him ; he is sufficient
to me, he continually acts upon me, he is the cause of
all my sensations and of all my thoughts ; he can re
present numberless worlds to me, though there were
nothing in all nature but he and I . . . Earth, air and
heaven, planets and stars, universal nature, I behold
you no more ; vain shadows, imperfect images, dis
figured pictures, you are vanished away ; I perceive
nothing but your original and your cause ; I am swal
lowed up, I lose myself in his bosom, and I need only
feel my own being to be convinced of his.
" I remember, said Cyrus, that Zoroaster laid open
to me all these truths. A superficial view of the won
ders ofthe universe might leave the mind in some un
certainty ; but when we descend to particulars, when
we enter into the sanctuary of nature, and study its se
crets, laws and effects to the bottom, when we are well
acquainted with ourselves, and compare what we feel
within us with what we see without us, it is impossible
any longer to hesitate. I do not see how Anaximander
could resist the force ofyour arguments."
He answered me, " Your reasoning is plausible, but
has no solidity in it ; you always shun the main ques
tion by the dexterous agility of your mind, I agree
with you, that there cannot be an eternal succession of
effects without a first * cause ; this would be an infin
* Spinoza never supposed an eternal succession of second causes
without a first. He confutes that opinion by Mr. Wallaston's argu
ment, which is the same that Anaximander ufes here. Sec Spin.
Epist. 29.
The Travels of Cyrus. 221
ite chain hanging upon nothing, an immense weight
without a support. I likewise allow that the idea of
matter does not include that of active force, as the idea
ofactive force does not include that of wisdom ; because
the different attributes of one and the same essence
may be separately conceived. Lastly ; I grant that
bodies do not become intelligent, by changing of place
and figure ; but you ascribe to matter properties which
it has not. Matter and extension are the same thing ; *
now you know that extension has neither color, nor
smell, nor taste ; and I add, that it has neither fixed
bounds, nor distinct parts, nor real motions. All these
qualities are but ideas, + or conceptions of the soul,
caused by the action of the immense % extension, which
shews itself successively to us under different forms.
This principle being laid down, my real doctrine is this.
We cannot banish from our minds the ideas ofeternity,
immensity and infinity ; they every where present
themselves to us ; we can explain nothing without
them ; these three properties are therefore the attri
butes of some eternal, immense and § absolutely infinite
Being ; there can be no other |j substance but his ; it
is one, and it is all ; it isthe universal being, and is both H
extended and intellectual ; what makes the ** diversity
* Descartes. t Dr. Berkeley.
\ F Mallebranche.
§ Spinoza says expressly the same thing. Deus est ens absolute
infinitum.
|| Praster Deum nulla dari neque concepi potest substantia.
1 Cogitatio est attributum Dei, sive Deus est res cogitans. Ex-
tensio est attributum Dei, sive Deus est res extensa. Substantia
cogitans & substantia extensa una eademque est substantia, qua
jam sub hoc, jam sub illo attributo concipitur.
** Res particulares nihil sunt nisi Dei attributorum modi.
29
222 The Travels of Cyrus.
of beings is not any real distinction ofsubstance, but the
difference of form ; the f eternal nature acts continual
ly within itself, by itself, and upon itself, according to the
extent of its infinite power, and thereby necessarily
produces all sorts offorms ; this boundless X power is
not restrained by those rules which are called wisdom,
goodness and justice, for these belong to finite beings,
and by no means to the infinite. Let me see you attack
this system with solid reasons, without seeking to daz
zle my eyes with metaphors, allegories, and the loose
declamations of an orator."
I answered—" If you only maintained, that all es
sences are but different forms of the divine essence, that
our souls are portions of the soul of the world, and our
bodies parts of his immense extension, you would not
be an atheist, but you would hold absurdities with ma
ny other § philosophers, who have a sincere abhor
rence of all impiety. They suppose, as you do, that
there is in allnature but one substance ; that the whole
universe is an emanation of the divine essence, or an ex
pansion of it ; but they believe that there is an infinite
Spirit, who presides over all spirits, a sovereign wis
dom that governs the world, a supreme goodness that
loves all its productions ; they never imagined, as you
do, that the one only substance acts without intelli
t Ex necessitate naturae divinannfinitainfinitismodis sequidebent
Deus est omnium rerum causa immanens, non vero transitus.
\ InteHectua, voluntas, amor ad modus Dei, sive entia particularia
pertinent, non ad substi'.ntiam eternam et infinitam. Vid. Spin.
Eth. Part I. Des. 6. Prop. 8, 13, 16, 18,25, 31, & Prop. 1,2,7, 10. &
Scholia.
§ It was the opinion of the Stoicks, of some of the disciples of
Orpheus, and of the ancient Pantheists, and is held by some of the
HRodern Chinese. See Discourse.
>
Ttte Travels of Cyrus. 223
gence or justice, without knowing or having any re
gard to the immutable relations and essential differ
ences between beings ; your atheism lies there, and
what proofdo you offer for your opinion ? In order to
demonstrate and convince, it is not enough to heap pro
position upon proposition, take for granted, and affirm
boldly."
He replied with a haughty assurance—" My whole
system turns upon this single* principle, that there is
but one only substance in nature ; this being demon
strated, all the rest follows by necessary and unavoida
ble consequence. Now this great principle I prove
thus—When the eternal Being produces new substan
ces, he gives them something or nothing ; if he gives
them nothing, he will never produce anything; if be
gives them a part of his own essence, he does not pro
duce a new substance, but a new form ; this is demon
stration. Provided the unity of substance be not des
troyed, it is indifferent to me how it is called, whether
soul or body, spirit or matter, intelligent or intelligible
extension.+
* All Spinoza's book, his definitions, axioms, propositions, corol
laries and scholia, tend to prove this principle, or flow from it ; this
once destroyed, all his system falls to the ground.
t This is the use which the Spinozists have made ofthe systems
maintained by Descartes. Mallebranche, and Dr. Berkely, contrary to
the intention of those three philosophers. The first says that mat
ter and extension are the same thing ; the second affirms, that the
immediate object ofour sensations is an intelligible, eternal, immuta
ble, infinite extension ; the third endeavors to prove, that there is no
such thing as body, that all is spirit. Mallebranche thinks that Des
cartes does not extend his principle far enough ; and Berkely accu
ses Mallebranche of stopping too soon. The Spinomt* pretend ;°
224 Tfte Travels of Cyrus.
" When the great Jupiter, said I, creates, he does
not draw a being out of nothing, as out of a subject
which contains in it some reality, neither does he di
vide his essence to make a separate substance of it,
but he makes something exist which did not exist be
fore. Now, to make a substance exist which was not
befoie, has nothing in it more inconceivable, than to
make a farm exist which was not before ; since in both
cases there is a new reality produced ; and whatever
difficulties there are in conceiving the passage from
non-existence to being, they are as puzzling in the
one as in the other. You cannot dteny a creating ener
gy, without denying for the same reason all active
force. Thus your eternal nature is reduced to a form
less mass, or an infinite space without action and pow
er, as well as without wisdom and goodness. Where
will you find an active deity to reduce that chaos to or
der, or to fill that immense space ? But I will restore
you, out of compassion, that active' principle and that
moving force, which you have need of to form your
world ; I will suppose, contrary to all reason and evi
dence, that your eternal nature acts as necessarily as
it exists ; you will gain nothing by this concession ;
you will only plunge yourself into a new abyss of con
tradictions more absurd and more frightful than the
first. You cannot deny that there are in nature beings
who suffer, and others that do not suffer ; intelligences
that are ignorant, and others who have knowledge ;
some who deny, others who affirm, and others who
reconcile all three, by admitting but one only substance. It must
nevertheless be allowed, that there is an essential difference between
these three philosophers and Spinoza, since they teach, that there is
a real distinction between the infinite Essence and created essences.
The Travel? of Cyrus. 225
doubt of the same things ; intelligences who love and
hate the same objects, and who often change their
thoughts, sentiments and passions. Now is it con
ceivable that the same immutable, immense, infinite
substance should be at the same time knowing and ig
norant, happy and unhappy, a friend and an enemy of
its own nature ? Does this monstrous assemblage of
variable, bounded, fantastical and jarring forms
square with the attributes you ascribe to the eternal na
ture? You may weaken your understanding by too
much refining, you may exhaust yourself by spinning
a thin web of sophisms, you may wrap yourself up in
these cobwebs, and endeavor to entangle light flutter
ing minds in them ; but I defy you to consider atten
tively the consequences of your system without horror
and shame. What motive is it that could induce you
to prefer the system of a blind nature to that of a wise
intelligence ? Do but ascend to first principles, make
use of that accuracy in which you formerly excelled,
and you will find that the infinite Being, which you ad
mit equally with me, is not an universal being, but a
being vastly distinct from all others ; that he has produ
ced new substances as well as new forms ; that he
knows himself and all bis productions ; that he loves
himself essentially, and all other beings, in proportion
to the degrees of reality he has communicated to them ;
that he is by consequence supremely powerful, wise
and good ; that it is absurd to conceive what is only
power, wisdom and goodness, under the form of length,
breadth and thickness ; that he may exist every where
without extension of parts, as he knows every thing
without succession of thoughts ; that infinite extension
is not his immensity, as infinite time is not his eterni
226 The Travels of Cyrus.
ty ; that space is only the manner in which bodies ex
ist in him, as time is only the manner in which created
beings exist with him ; and lastly, that variable and
finite beings are not different forms of his substance,
but effects of his power. Examine geometrically this
chain of consequences drawn from the idea of the eter
nal, immense, infinite Being ; descend from the first
to the last, remount from the last to the first, and you
will see that they are all of them necessarily linked to
gether ; every step you take you will discern new rays
of light, which, when they are all united, form a com
plete evidence ; I challenge you to shew me where it
fails."
Thrice he essayed to speak, and thrice his perplexed
mind endeavored in vain to rally its confused ideas ;
at length he collected all the powers of his understand
ing, and answered me thus—" The universe is full of
defects and vices ; I see every where beings that are
unhappy and wicked ; now I cannot conceive how suf
ferings and crimes can begin or subsist under the em
pire of a being supremely good wise and powerful. If
he be wise, he must have foreseen them ; if he be pow
erful, he might have hindered them ; and if he be good,
he would have prevented them. Here is therefore as
manifest a contradiction in your system as in mine ;
you must deny that there are crimes and miseries in the
universe, or that there is a sovereign Wisdom and
Goodness that governs it ; take your choice."
. " How, answered 1, will you deny what you see
clearly, because you do not see further ? The smallest
light induces us to behove, but the greatest obscurity is
not a sufficient reason for deny ng. In this dawn of
human life, the lights of the understanding are too faint
The Travels of Cyrus. 227
to shew us truth with a perfect evidence ; we only get
a glimpse of it by a chance-ray, which suffices to con
duct us ; but it is not such a broad day-light as dispels
all obscurity. You deny a creating Power, because
you do not conceive how it operates ; you reject an
eternal Wisdom, because you know not the secret rea
sons of its conduct ; you refuse to acknowledge a sov
ereign Goodness, because you do not comprehend -how
evilcan subsist under its government. OAnaximander !
is this reasoning ? A thing is not, because you do not see
it. All your difficulties are reduced to this"
" You do me injustice, replied the wretched old man,
who began to waver and to change his style ; I neither
affirm nor deny any thing ; but I doubt of every thing,
because I see nothing certain, nothing but what is
wrapt up in darkness ; and this obscurity reduces me
to the necessity of fluctuating forever in a sea of uncer
tainties ; there is no such thing as demonstration. It
does not follow that a thing is true, because it appears
so; a mind which is deceived often, may be deceived
always ; and this possibility is alone sufficient to make
me doubt of every thing."
" Such is the nature of our understanding, replied I,
that we cannot refuse to do homage to truth, when it is
clearly discerned ; we are forced to acquiesce, we are
no longer free to doubt. Now this impossibility of
doubting is what men call conviction, evidence, demon
stration. The mind of man can go no farther. This
light strikes with equal force upon all minds ; it has an
irresistible power over Scythians and Indians, Greeks
and Barbarians, gods and men ; and it can therefore be
nothing else but a ray of that eternal Wisdom which
enlightens all intelligences. This light is the last hi-
228 The Travels of Cyrus.
bunal for trying1 our ideas ; we cannot appeal from it
without ceasing to be reasonable. To doubt contrary
to all reason, is extravagance ; to pretend to doubt,
when the evidence makes doubting impossible, is add
ing insincerity to folly. See to what a dilemma you are
reduced by too much refining ; observe the inconstancy
of your mind, and the inconsistency of your reasoning.
You were at first for demonstrating that there is no sov
ereign intelligence ; when I shewed you that your pre
tended demonstrations werq only loose suppositions,
you then took refuge in a general doubting ; and now
at last your philosophy terminates in destroying reason,
rejecting all evidence, and maintaining that there is no
rule whereby to make any settled judgments. It is to
no purpose, therefore, to reason longer with you."
Here I left off speaking, that I might listen to what
he would anssver ; but finding that he did not open his
mouth, I imagined that he began to be moved, and I
continued thus : '• I suppose that you doubt seriously ;
but is it want of light, or the fear of being convinced,
which causes your doubts ? Enter into yourself; truth
is better felt than understood. Hearken to the voice
of nature that speaks within you ; she will soon rise up
against all your refined sophistry ; your heart, which is
born with an insatiable thirst of happiness, will give
your understanding the lie, when it rejoices in the un
natural hope of its approaching extinction ; once again,
I say, enter into yourself, impose silence upon your
imagination, let not your passions blind you, and you
will find, in the inmost of your soul, an inexpressible
feeling of the Divinity, which will dispel your doubts.
It is by hearkening to this internal evidence, that your
understanding and your heart will be reconciled ; on
The Travels of Cyrus. 229
their reconcilement depends the peace of $te soul, and
it is in this tranquility alone that we can Ljar the voice
of wisdom, which supplies the defects of our reason
ings. O my father, my dear father, where are you ? I
seek you in yourself without finding you. What is be
come of that divine man who formerly carried me
through all the regions of immensity, who taught me to
run back through all times to eternity itself? What
then is become of that sublime, subtle, and extensive
understanding? What cloud of passions has obscured
it? What midnight of prejudice is cast over it?" Here
I fixed my eyes upon him, to see whether my arguments
had made any impression on his mind ; but he looked
upon me with the disdainful smile of a haughty soul,
that hides her weakness and despair under an air of
contempt. I then held my peace, and invoked the
heavenly Minerva in a profound silence ; I prayed to
her to enlighten him, but she was deaf to me, because
he was deaf to her; he saw not the truth, because he
loved it not.
Here Pythagoras ceased, and Cyrus said to him—
" You join the most affecting considerations with the
most solid arguments ; whether we consult the ideas of
the first cause, or the nature of its effects, the happiness
ofa man or the good of society, reason or experience ;
all conspire to prove your system ; but to believe that
of Anaximander, we must take for granted what can
never with the least reason be imagined, that motion is
an essential property of matter, that matter is the only
existing substance, and that the infinite force acts with
out knowledge or design, notwithstanding all the marks
of wisdom that shine throughout the universe. I do not
conceive how men can hesitate between the two sys
30
230 The Travels of Cyrus.
terns ; the one is obscure to the understanding, denies
all consolation to the heart, and is destructive of socie
ty i the other is full of light and of comfortable ideas,
produces noble sentiments, and conforms us to all the
duties of civil life. One of the two systems must be
true ; the eternal Being is either a blind nature, or a
wise intelligence ; there is no medium. You have
shewn that the first opinion is false and absurd, the
other therefore is evidently true and solid. Your ar
guments have darted a pure light into the inmost of my
soul. You seem nevertheless to have left your adver
sary's objection concerning the origin of evil in its full
strength ; help me to answer this grand difficulty."
Here Pythagoras ran through all the different opinions
of the philosophers, without being able to satisfy Cy
rus ; the prince found a solution of this difficulty no
where but among the Hebrews ; but though he was
not content with the answers of the Samian on this
head, he would not make him feel the weakness of
them, nor let him perceive that he himself was sensible
of it ; he dexterously shifted the question, and return
ing to his dispute, " Make haste to tell me, said he, O
wise Pythagoras1, what impression your discourse
made upon Anaximander."
" He withdrew, answered the philosopher, in con
fusion and despair, and with a resolution to ruin me.
As weak eyes, which the sun dazzles and blinds, such
was the heart of Anaximander ; neither prodigies, nor
proofs, nor touching considerations can move the soul,
when error has seized upon the understanding by the
corruption of the heart. Since my departure from Sa-
mos, I hear that he has fallen into the wild extrava
gance which I had foreseen. Being resolved to believe
Vie Travels of Cyrus, 231
nothing which could not be demonstrated by geomet
rical evidence, he is come not only to doubt of the most
certain truths, but to believe the greatest absurdities.
He maintains, without any allegory, that all he sees is
but a dream ; that all the men who are about him arc-
phantoms ; that it is he himself who speaks to and ans
wers himself, when he converses with them ; that the
heaven and the earth, the stars and the elements,
plants and trees, are only illusions ; and in a word, that
there is nothing real but himself. At first he was for
destroying the divine Essence, to substitute a blind na
ture in its place ; at present he has destroyed that na
ture itself, and maintains that he is the only existent
being."* Thus ended the conversation between Cy
rus and Pythagoras. The prince was touched with the
consideration of the weakness ofhuman understanding ;
he saw by the example of Anaximander, that the most
subtle guniuses may go gradually from impiety to ex
travagance, and fall into a philosophical delirium,
which is as real a madness as any other. Cyrus went
the next day to see the sage, in order to put some ques
tions to him about the laws of Minos.
" The profound peace, said he to Pythagoras, which
is at present in Persia, gives me leisure to travel ; I am
going over the most famous countries to collect useful
knowledge ; I have been faj Egypt, where I have in
formed myself in the laws and government of that
kingdom ; I have travelled over Greece, to acquaint
myself with the different republics which compose it,
especially those of Lacedemon and Athens, The an-
* The language of the modern Egomists and of Carneades hereto
fore. See Discourse.
232 The Travels of Cyrus.
cient laws of Egypt seem to me to have been excellent
and founded in nature, but its form of government was
defective ; the kings had no bridle to restrain them ; the
thirty judges did not share the supreme authority with
them ; they were but the interpreters of the laws.
Despotic power and conquests at last destroyed that
empire. I fear that Athens will be ruined by a contra
ry fault ; its governmentis too popular and tumultuous ;
the laws of Solon are good, but he had not sufficient
authority to reform the genius of a people that have an
unbounded inclination for liberty, luxury and pleasure.
Lycurgus has provided a remedy for the defects which
ruined Egypt, and will destroy Athens ; but his laws
are t^o contrary to nature. Equality of ranks and
community of goods cannot subsist long ; as soon as the
Lacedemonians shall have extended their dominion in
Greece, they will doubtless throw off the yoke of these
laws ; they restrain the passions on one side, but in
dulge them too much on another, and while they pro
scribe sensuality they favor ambition. None of these
three forms of government seem to ine to be perfect ; I
have been told that Minos heretofore established one in
this island, which was free from the defects I have men
tioned."
Pythagoras admired the young prince's penetration,
and conducted him to the temple where the laws of
Minos were kept in a gold box ; they contained all that
regarded religion, morality and policy, and whatever
might contribute to the knowledge of the gods, our
selves and other men. Cyrus found in this sacred
book that all was excellent in the laws of Egypt, $parta
and Athens, and thereby perceived, that as Minos had
borrowed from the Egyptians, so Lycurgus and Solon
The Travels of Cyrus. 233
were indebted to theCreten lawgiver for the most valua
bleparts oftheir institutions ; and it was upon this model
also that Cyrus formed those admirable laws which he
establihsed in his empire after he had conquered Asia.
Pythagoras after this explained to him the form of
government of ancient Crete, and how it provided
equally against despotic power and anarchy. " One
would think, added the philosopher, that a government
so perfect in all its parts should have subsisted forever,
but there hardly remain any traces of it. The succes
sors of Minos degenerated by degress : they did not
think themselves great enough while they were only
guardians of the laws ; they would substitute their ar
bitrary will in the place of them. The Cretans op
posed the innovation ; from thence sprang discords and
civil wars : in these tumults, the kings were dethroned,
exiled, or put to death, and usurpers took their place ;
these usurpers, to flatter the people, weakened the au
thority ofthe nobles ; the comes, or deputies ofthe peo
ple, invaded the sovereign authority ; the monarchy, at
first shaken and then despised, was at last abolished,
and the government became popular. Such is the sad
condition of human things. The desire of unbounded
authority in princes, and the love of independence in the
people, expose all kingdoms to inevitable revolutions ;
nothing is fixed or stable among men." Cyrus per
ceived by this, that the safety and happiness of a king
dom do not depend so much upon the wisdom of laws,
as upon that of kings. All sorts of government are
good, when those who govern seek only the public
welfare ; but they are all defective, because the govern
ors being but men, are imperfect.
234 lie Travels of Cyrus.
After several such conversations with the wise Sa-
mian, the prince prepared to continue his travels, and
at parting said to him—" I am extremely concerned
to see you abandoned to the cruelty of capricious for
tune ! How happy should I be to spend my life with
you in Persia ! I will not offer you pleasures or riches
which allure other men; I know you would be lit
tle moved by them ; you are above the favors of kings
because you see the vanity of human grandeur, but I
offer you in my dominions peace, liberty, and the
sweet leisure which the gods grant to those who love
wisdom."
"I should have a sincere joy, replied Pythagoras,
to live under your protection with Zoroaster and the
magi, but I must follow the orders given me by the
oracle of Apollo ; a miahty empire is rising in Italy,
which will one day become master of the world ; its
form of government is like that established in Crete
by Minos ; the genius of the people is as warlike as
that of the Spartans ; the generous love of their coun
try, the esteem of personal poverty in order to aug
ment the public treasure, the noble and disinterested
sentiments which prevail among the citizens, their con
tempt of pleasure, and their ardent zeal for liberty,
render them fit to conquer the whole world ; I am to
introduce there the knowledge of the gods, and of laws.
I must leave you, but I will never forget you ; my
heart will follow you every where ; you will doubtless
extend your conquests as the oracles have foretold.—
May the gods preserve you then from being intoxicated
by sovereign authority ! May you long feel the pleasure
of reigning only to make other men happy ! Fame will
inform me of your successes. I shall often ask, Has
The Travels of Cyrus. 235
not grandeur made a change in the heart of Cyrus 1
Does he still love virtue1? Does be continue to fear the
gods ? Though we now part, we shall meet again in
the abode of the just ; I shall doubtless ascend thither
before you ; I will there expect your manes. Ah Cy
rus ! how joyful shall I be to see you again after death,
among the good kings, who are crowned by the gods
with an immortal glory ! Farewell, prince, farewell !
and remember that you never employ your power but
to execute the dictates of your goodness."
Cyrus was so much affected that he could not an
swer; he respectfully embraced the old man, and be
dewed his face with tears ; but, in short, they must
separate. Pythagoras embarked very soon for Italy,
and the prince in a Phenician vessel for Tyre. As
Cyrus was sailing from Crete, and the coasts of Greece
began to disappear, he felt an inward regret, and call
ing to mind all he had seen, said to Araspes—" AVhat !
is this the nation that was represented to me as so su
perficial and trifling ? I have found there great men of
all kinds, profound philosophers, able captains, wise
politicians, and geniuses capable of reaching to all
heights, and of going to the bottom of things. Oth
er nations, methinks, don't do the Greeks justice."
" I cannot admire, answered Araspes, either their
talents or their sciences ; the Chaldeans and Egyp
tians surpass them exceedingly in all solid knowledge.
Lycurgus, Solon, Thales, and Pythagoras, would nev
er have known any thing if they had not travelled in
Egypt and the east ; all that they have added to our
philosophy, has been only so much alloy to it. The
doctrine of* Thales is a series of loose suppositions ;
* He introduced Mathematics and Physics. intoGrcecsas Descar
tes revived the taste of them in Europe.
236 The Travels of Cynis.
his ethereal fluid is a mere whim, and not at all geo
metrical : what comparison between his philosophy
and that of* Moschus the Phenician ! Besides, I do not
find any thing of the original, creating, masculine gen
ius in the Greek poets and orators, but a diffused style,
superfluous flowers, ideas that seem clear and transpa
rent only because they are light and thin ; their pretty
thoughts, ingenious turns, and pretended delicacies,
proceed wholly from the infant weakness of their under
standing, which cannot rise to the sublime, and con
tinually hovers about the surface of objects. In a word,
all that I admire in the Greeks is their politeness, their
conversable qualities, their taste for pleasure, and their
continual joy ; they purchase happiness at a cheaper
rate than other nations."
"It is true, replied Cyrus, we find sublime ideas and
useful discoveries amongthe Chaldeans and Egyptians,
but their depth of science isofter full of obscurity ; they
know not, like the Greeks, how to come at hidden
truths by a chain of known and easy ones ; that ingen
ious method ofranging each idea in its proper place, of
leading the mind by degrees from the most simple
truths to the most compounded, with order, perspicui
ty, and accuracy, is a secret with which the Chalde
ans and Egyptians, who boast of having more of ori
ginal genius, are little acquainted. This nevertheless
is the true science by which man is taught the extent
and bounds of his own mind, and this is what we owe
to Thales ; his works and his travels spread this taste
in the East. What ingratitude and injustice to make
* He was the first that taught the alomical doctrine, not in the
sense of Democritus and Epicurus, but in that of Sir Isaac New
ton. See Opt. page ,407.
Tfie Travels of Cyms. 237
no other use of his great discoveries, than to despise
him because he did not discover all ! It is true, his
philosophy is not exact ; but Moschus, the great Mos-
chus, has not he himself had recourse to an Ethereal
fluid, in order to explain his principle of attraction,
which, as at first represented by his disciples, was
wholly unintelligible, a mere occult quality ; I know
that the Greeks love the agreeable kinds of knowledge,
more than nice speculations ; but they do not despise
the sublime sciences. On the contrary, they excel in
them when they apply their minds to the study of them.
Have we in all the East such a history of Physics as that
written by Anaximenes? Do not you find beauties in
Homer, the fables of iEsop, Archilochus's satires, and
in the dramatic pieces which are acted at Athens, to
render vice odious and ridiculous ? I repeat what I said
to Solon, the Greeks have a finer taste than other na
tions. It is for want of sensibility that we do not suf
ficiently admire the delicate thoughts, the tender pas
sions, the natural and unaffected graces in their wri
tings. The poem of Abaris the Scythian concerning
the* ruin of the garden of the Hesperides, would
have been more perfect, if the author had been a Greek.
We see there all the efforts of a genius that can rise to
the highest heaven, descend to the lowest abyss, and
fly with rapid wing from one end of the immensity to
the other; yet Abaris, the admirable Abaris, does he
always distinguish between the natural and the low,
sublimity and bombast, enthusiasm and fury, delicacy
and subtlety ? I.grant that the Greeks seem to be some
times taken up too much with trifles and amusements ;
*It might be somewhat like Milton's Paradise Lost.
31
238 The Travels of Cyrus.
but the great men among them have the secret of pre
paring the most important affairs, even while they are
diverting themselves : they are sensible that the mind
has need now and then of rest ; but in these relaxations
they can put in motion the greatest machines by the
smallest springs. They look upon life as a kind of
•port, but such as resembles the Olympic games, where
mirthful dancing is mixed with laborious exercises.—
They love strangers more than other nations, and their
country deserves to be styled the common country of
mankind. It is for these qnalities that I prefer the
Greeks to other nations, and not because of their polite
ness.
" True politeness is common to delicate souls of all
nations, and it is not peculiar to any one people. Ex
ternal civility is but the form established in the different
-countries for expressing that politeness of the soul.—I
prefer the civility of the Greeks to that of other nations,
because it is more simple and less troublesome ; it ex
cludes all superfluous formality ; its only aim is to ren
der company and conversation easy and agreeable.'—
But internal politeness is very different from that su
perficial civility. You were not present that day when
Pythagoras spoke to me upon this head ; I will tell you
his notion of politeness, to which his own practice is
answerable. It is an eveness of soul, which excludes
at the same time both insensibility and too much earnest
ness ; it supposes a quickness in discerning what may
suit the different characters of men ; it is a sweet con
descension, by which we adapt ourselves to each man's
taste, not to flatter his passions, but to avoid provoking
him. In a word, k is a forgetting of ourselves, iu or
der to seek what may be agreeable to others, but in so
The Travels of Cyrus. 239
delicate a manner, as to let them scarce perceive that
we are so employed. It knows how to contradict with
respect, and to please without adulation,, and is equal
ly remote from an insipid complaisance and a low fa
miliarity." Cyrus and Araspes were discoursing togeth
er in this manner, when they discovered the coasts of
Phenicia, and they soon after arrived at Tyre.
SEVENTH BOOK.
********
THE king of Babylon having destroyed ancient
Tyre, the inhabitants had built a new city in a neigh
boring island, thirteen furlongs from the shore. This
island stretched itselfin form of a crescent, aud inclosed
a bay where the ships lay in shelter from the winds :
divers rows of cedars beautified the port ; and at each
end of it was a fortress for the security of the town, and
ofthe shipping. In the middle of the mole was a por
tico of twelve rows of pillars, where, at certain hours of
the day, the people of all nations assemble to buy and
sell ; there one might hear all languages spoken, and
see the manners and habits of all the different nations ;
so that Tyre seemed the capital of the universe. A
prodigious number of vessels were floating upon the
water ; some going, others arriving. Here the mari
ners were furling their sails, while the weary rowers
enjoyed repose ; there one might see new-built vessels
launched ; a vast multitude of people covered the port ;
some were busy in unloading ships, others in transport
ing merchandize, and others in filling the magazines ;
all were in motion, earnest at work, and eager in pro
moting trade.
Cyras observed a good while with pleasure this scene
of hurry and business, and then advancing towards one
end of the mole met a man whom he thought he knew.
" Am I deceived, cried out the prince, or is it Ameno-
phis who has left his solitude to come into the society of
men ?" " It is I, replied the Egyptian sage ; I have
The Travels of Cyrus. 241
changed my retreat in Arabia, for another at the foot of
mount Libanus." Cyrus, surprised at this alteration,
asked him the reason. " Arobal, said Amenophis, is
the cause of it ; that Arobal of whom I spoke to you
formerly, who was prisoner with me at Memphis, and
my fellow-slave in the mines of Egypt, was a son to
the king of Tyre, but knew not his birth ; he has as
cended the throne of his ancestors, and his true name is
Ecnibal. I enjoy a perfect tranquillity in his domin
ions ; come and see a prince who is worthy of your
friendship." " I have always had a concern for him,
replied Cyrus, on account of your friendship for him,
but I could never forgive his leaving you. I rejoice
with you on your finding him again ; I long impatient
ly to see him, and to testify to him the satisfaction I
feel."
Amenophis conducted the prince to the royal palace,
and presented him to the king. Noble souls make ac
quaintance at first sight, nor does it require time to
form strict friendships, where a sympathy of thoughts
and sentiments have prepared the way for them. The
king of Tyre asked Cyrus divers questions about his
country, his travels, and the manners ef the different
nations he had seen. He was charmed with the noble
sentiments and delicate taste which discovered them
selves in the young prince's discourse, who on the other
hand admired the good sense and virtue of Ecnibal ;
he spent some days at his court; and at length desired
Amenophis to relate to him the misfortunes of the king
ofTyre, and by what means he had ascended the throne.
The Egyptian sage retired one day with Cyrus and
Araspes into the hollow of a rock beautified with shell-
work ; from whence they had a view of the sea, the
242 The Travels of Cyrus.
city of Tyre, and the fertile country about it : on one
side mount Libanus bounded the prospect, and on the
other side the isle of Cyprus seemed to fly away upon
the waves ; they all three sat down upon a bed ofmoss
on the brink of a fountain, whose still waters seemed to
sleep in their Very source. When they had reposed
themselves awhile, the Egyptian sage began thus :—
" While Ecnibal was yet a child in his cradle, his
father died ; his uncle Itobal aspiring to the throne, re
solved to rid himself of the young prince. But Bahal,
to whom his education was committed, spread a report
of his death, to preserve him from the cruelty of the ty
rant, and sent him to a solitary part of the country at
the foot of mount Libanus, where he made him pass
for his own son, under the name of Arobal, without
discovering his birth even to the prince himself. When
Ecnibal was in his fourteenth year, Bahal formed the
design of placing him upon the throne. The usurper
being apprised of it, claptup the loyal Tyrian in prison,
and threatened him with the most cruel death, if he did
not deliver up the young prince into his hands. Ba
hal would make no discovery, being resolved to die,
rather than fail in his duty and affection for Ecnibal.
In the meanwhile the tyrant, knowing the l>eir of the
crown to be yet living, was greatly disturbed and in
censed. To satiate his rage, and calm his disquiets, he
ordered all Bahal's children to be put to death. But
a faithful slave having notice of it, contrived to save
Ecnibal ; so that he left Phenicia, without knowing the
secret of his birth. Bahal escaped out of prison by
throwing himself from a high tower into the sea ; he
gained the shore by swimming, and retired to Babylon
where he made himself known to Nabuchonosor. To
The Travels of Cyrus. 243
revenge himselffor the murder of his children, he stir
red up that conqueror to make war upon Itobal, and to
undertake the long siege of Tyre. The king of Baby
lon, being informed of the bravery and capacity of Ba-
hal, chose him to command in chief in this expedition.
Itobal was killed ; and after the taking of the town,
Bahal was raised to the throne of Tyre by Nabuchod-
onosor, who in that manner recompensed his services
and fidelity. Bahal did not suffer himselfto be dazzled
by the lustre of royalty ; having learned that Ecnibal
had escaped the rage of the tyrant, his first care was to
send over all Asia to seek him, but he could learn no
news of him ; for we were in the mines ofEgypt.
" Arobal having wandered a long time in Africa, and
lost the slave, his conductor, engaged himselfin Apries's
troops, being resolved either to end his days, or to dis
tinguish himselfby some glorious action. I have for
merly given you an account of our first acquaintance,
our mutual fiiendship, our common slavery, and our
separation. Upon his leaving me, he went to Babylon,
where he was informed of the revolution which had
happened at Tyre, and that Bahal, whom he believed
his father, was raised to the throne : he left the court
of Nabuchodonosor without delay, and soon arrived in
Phenicia, where he was introduced to Bahal. The
good old man, loaded with years, was reposing himself
upon a rich carpet ; joy gave him strength ; he got up,
ran to Arobal, examined him, recalled all his features,
and in a word, knew him to be the same. He could no
longer contain himself, he fell upon his neck, embraced
him, bedewed his face with tears, and cried out with
transport—' It is then you whom I see, it is Ecnibal
himself, the son of my master, the child whom I saved
244 The Travels of Cyrus.
from the tyrant's hands, the innocent cause of my dis
grace, and the subject of my glory ; I can then shew
my gratitude towards the king who is no more, by re
storing his son. Ah gods! it is thus that you recom
pense my fidelity, I die content.' He imme'diately dis
patched ambassadors to the court of Babylon, to ask
permission ofthe king to resign the crown, and recog
nize Ecnibal for his lawful master, ft was thus that
the prince of Tyre ascended the throne of his ancestors,
andBahal died soon after.
" As soon as Arobal was restored, he sent a Tyrian
to me in my solitude, to inform me of his fortune, and to
press me to come and live at his court. I was charmed
to hear of hie happiness, and to find that he still loved
me ; I expressed my joy in the warmest manner, and
signified to the Tyrian, that all my desires were satis
fied, since my friend was happy ; but I absolutely re
fused to leave my retirement. He sent to me again, to
conjure me to come and assist him in the labors of
royalty; I answered, that he was sufficiently knowing
to fulfil all his obligations, and that his past misfor
tunes would enable him to shun the dangers to which
supreme authority is exposed.
" At last, seeing that nothing could move me, he
left Tyre, under pretence of going to Babylon to do
homage to the Assyrian king, and arrived soon at my
solitude. We tenderly embraced each other a long
while. ' Doubtless you thought, said he to me, that I
had forgotten you, that our separation proceeded from
the cooling of my friendship, and that ambition had
seduced my heart ; but you were deceived. It is true,
that when I left you I could no longer support retire
ment, I had no peace in it ; this restlessness, no doubt
The Travels of Cyrus. 245
proceeded from the gods themselves ; they drew mc
away to accomplish the designs of their wisdom ; I
could enjoy no repose while I resisted them ; it was
thus that thej conducted me to the throne by unknown
paths ; grandeur has not changed my heart ; shew
me that absence has not diminished your friendship :
come and support me in the midst ofthe toils and dan
gers in which an elevated state engages me.' Ah!
said I to him, do not force me to quit my solitude ;
suffer me to enjoy the repose which the gods have
granted me ; grandeur excites the passions ; courts
are stormy seas ; I have been already shipwrecked,
and have happily escaped ; expose me not to the like
misfortune a second time. s I perceive your thoughts,
replied Ecnibal ; you are afraid of the friendship of
kings, you have experienced their inconstancy, you
have found that their favor is frequently but the fore
runner of their hatred ; Apries loved you once, and de
serted you afterwards ; but alas ! should you compare
me with Apries? No, no, replied I, I shall always dis
trust the friendship of a prince brought up in luxury
and effeminacy like the king of Egypt; but for you,
who were educated far from a throne, and in ignorance
of your rank, and have since been tried by such a va
riety of adverse fortune, I have no fear that the regal
dignity should alter your sentiments. The gods have
conducted you to the throne, you must fulfil the duties
incumbent upon a king, and sacrifice yourself to the
public good ; but for me, nothing obliges me to en
gage anew in tumidt and trouble ; I have no thought
but to die in solitude, where wisdom nourishes my heart
and where the hope of being soon re-united to the great
Osiris makes me forget all my past misfortunes.
32
246 The. Travels of Cyrus.
" Here a torrent of tears obliged us to silence, which
Ecnibal at length breaking, said to me, ' Has then the
study of wisdom served only to make Amenophis insen
sible ? Well if you will grant nothing to friendship,
come at least to defend me from the frailties of human
nature ; I shall one day, perhaps, forget that I have
been unfortunate, I may come to be unmoved with the
miseries of men ; supreme authority will perhaps pois
on my heart, and render me like other princes ; come
and preserve me from the errors to which my state is
ever liable ; come and confirm me in all those maxims
of virtue with which you formerly inspired me ; I feel
that I have more need of a friend than ever.' Ecnibal
melted me with these words, and I consented to follow
him, but upon condition that I should not live at court,
that I should never have any employment there, and
that I should retire into some solitary place near Tyre ;
I have only changed one retreat for another, that I
might have the pleasure of being nearer my friend.
We left Arabia Felix, went to Babylon, and saw there
Nabuchodonosor. But alas ! how different is he now
from what he was heretofore ! He is no longer that
conqueror who reigned in the midst of triumphs, and
astonished the nations with the splendor of his glory :
for some time past he has lost his reason ; he flies the
society ef men, and wanders about in the mountains
and woods like a wild beast : how terrible a fate for so
great a prince ! When we arrived at Tyre, I chose my
retreat at the foot of mount Libanus, in the same place
where Ecnibal was brought up ; I come here some
times to see him, and be goes frequently to my solitude ;
nothing can impair our friendship, because truth is the
only bond of it. I see by this example that royalty is
'-
The Travels of Cyrus. 247
not, as I imagined, incompatible with tender senti
ments : all depends on the first education of princes ;
adversity is the best school for them ; it is there that
heroes are formed ; Apries had been spoiled by pros
perity in his youth ; Arobal is confirmed in virtue by
misfortunes."
Cyrus's esteem for Ecnibal was much heightened by
this relation ; he admired that prince's constancy in
friendship, more than all his other great qualities.
During his stay at Tyre, he was entertained in a very
magnificent manner, and often expressed to the king
his astonishment at the splendor which reigned in that
city. " Be not surprised at it, answered the Tyrian
prince, wherever commerce flourishes under the pro
tection of wise laws, plenty becomes quickly universal,
and magnificence costs the State nothing." Cyrus,
upon this, desires the king of Tyre to explain to him
how he had brought his dominions into such a flour
ishing condition in so short a time.
" The wisest of the Hebrew kings, said Ecnibal,
shewed many ages ago to what a pitch of splendor and
magnificence commerce will raise a little State ; his
ships sailed even to the remotest islands to import from
thence the wealth, perfumes, and rich commoditiesofthe
East ; after the ruin and captivity of the Hebrews, we
seized upon all the branches of their commerce. Tyre
is happily situated ; her inhabitants understand navi
gation ; trade was at first perfectly free there ; stran
gers were treated as citizens of Tyre. But under the
reign ofItobal, all fell to ruin ; instead ofkeeping our ports
open, according to the old custom, he shut them up out
of political views, formed a design ofchanging the fun
damental constitution of Phenicia, and of rendering a
248 The Travels of Cyrus:
nation warlike, that bad always shunned having any
part in the quarrels of her neighbors. By these means
commerce languished, and our strength diminished ;
Itobal drew upon us the wrath of the king of Babylon,
who razed our ancient city, and made us tributary. As
soon as Bahal was placed upon the throne, he endeav
ored to remedy these mischiefs ; I have followed the
plan which that good prince left me.
" He began by opening his ports to strangers, and
by restoring the freedom of commerce. He declared
that his name should never be made use of in it, but to
support its rights and make its laws be observed.
The authority of princes is too formidable for other men
to enter into partnership with them. Commerce was
carried on in the first republics only by exchange of
merchandize ; but this method was found troublesome,
and subject to many inconveniences ; the value of pro
visions is not always the same ; they cannot be trans
ported without expense, nor distributed without trouble,
nor long kept without spoiling. It was necessary to
have such a common measure ofthe value of merchan
dize, as should be incorruptible, portable, and divisible
into small parts, for the convenience of the poorest citi
zens. Metals seemed proper for this use, and it is this
common measure which is called money. The public
treasure having been exhausted by long wars, there
was not money enough in Phenicia to set the people to
work ; arts languished, and agriculture itself was neg-
lectod. Bahal engaged the principal merchants to ad
vance considerable sums to the artizans, while the for
mer trafficked together upon safe credit : but this credit
never took place among the laborers and mechanics.
Coin is not only a common measure for regulating-the
The Travels of Cyrus. 249
price of the several kinds of merchandize, but it is a
sure pledge which has an intrinsic value, and pretty
near the same in all nations. Banal would not have
this pledge ever taken out of the hands of the people,
because they have need of it to secure themselves
against the corruption of ministers, the oppression of
the rich, and even the ill use which kings might make
of their authority. In order to encourage the Tyrians
to work, he not only left every one in the free possess
ion of his gain, but allotted great rewards for those
who should excel by their genius, or distinguish them
selves by any new invention. He built great work
houses for manufactures ; he lodged there all those
who were eminent in their respective arts ; and that
their attention might not be taken off by uneasy cares,
he supplied all their wants, and he flattered their am
bition, by granting them such honors and distinctions
in his capital as were suitable to their condition. He
took off" the exorbitant imposts, and forbad all monopo
lies ; so that neither buyers or sellers are under any con
straint or oppression. Trade being left free, my sub
jects import hither, in abundance, all the best things
which the universe affords, and they sell them at reas
onable rates. All sorts of provisions pay me a very
small tribute at entering ; the less I fetter trade, the
more my treasures increase ; the diminution of im
posts diminishes the price of merchandize ; the less
dear things are, the more are consumed of them ; and
by this consumption, my revenues exceed greatly what
they would amount to by laying on excessive duties.
Kings who think to enrich themselves by their exac
tions, are not only enemies to their own people, but ig
norant of their own interests."
250 The Travels of Cyrus.
" I perceive, says Cyrus, that commerce is a source
of great advantages in a State ; I believe that is the on
ly secret to create plenty in great monarchies, and to
repair the desolations caused there by war ; numerous
troops quickly exhaust a kingdom, if we cannot draw
subsistence for them from foreign countries by a flour
ishing trade." " Have a care, said Amenophis, that
you do not mistake. Commerce ought not to be neg
lected in great monarchies, but it must be regulated by
other rules than in petty republics. Phenicia carries
on commerce, not only to supply her own wants, but
those of foreign States. As her territories are small,
her strength consists in making herself useful, and even
necessary to all her neighbors ; her merchants bringj
from the remotest islands, the riches of nature, and dis
tribute them afterwards among other nations. It is not
her own superfluities, but» those of other countries,
which are the foundation of her trade. In a city like
Tyre, where commerce is the only support of the State,
all the principal citizens are traders ; the merchants
are the princes of the republic. But in great empires,
where military virtue and subordination of ranks are
absolutely necessary, commerce ought to be encourag
ed without being universal. To this end, it is neces
sary to establish companies, grant them privileges, and
entrust them with the general commerce of the nation.
They should make settlements in remote islands, and
maintain a naval force for their defence against pirates.
Those who cannot employ themselves in trade, shall
lodge their money in these public companies. The
magistrates, priests and military men cannot traffic,
without neglecting their proper employments, and de
meaning themselves ; those trading companies shall be
Hie Travels of Cyrus. 251
the depositaries of every private man's money, which,
thus united, will produce an hundred-fold. In a king
dom that is fruitful, spacious, populous, and abounding
with sea-ports, if the people are laborious, they may
draw from the bosom of the earth immense treasures,
which would be lost by the negligence and sloth of its
inhabitants. By improving the productions of nature
by manufactures, the national riches are augmented ;
and it is by carrying these fruits of industry to other
nations, that a solid commerce is established in a great
empire. But nothing should be exported to other coun
tries but its superfluities, nor any thing imported from
them but what is purchased with those superfluities.—
By these means the State will never contract any debts
abroad, the balance of trade will be always on its side,
and it will draw from other nations wherewith to de
fray the expenses of war ; great advantages will be
reaped from commerce, without destroying the distinc
tion of ranks, or weakening military virtue. One of
the chief accomplishments of a prince, is to know the
genius of his people, the productions of nature in his
kingdom, and how to make the best advantage of them."
Cyrus, by his conversation with Ecnibal and Ameno-
phis, learnt many useful notions and maxims in gov
ernment, which he had not met with in other coun
tries ; they were of great service to him after the taking
of Sardis, when he ordered gold money to be coined,
and turned the king of Lydia's treasures into specie.*
The next day Cyrus accompanied the king of Tyre
some furlongs from his capital, to assist at the annua]
rites instituted in commemoration of the death of Ado-
Sec Sir Isaac Newton's Chronology, p. 319,
,. ^ ; f * , ,--..- f. - i : , • \
252 The Travels of Cyrus.
nis. Between Heliopolis and Byblos there was a state
ly temple consecrated to Venus. On one side of the
portal was placed a statue of the goddess ; she leaned
her head declining on her left hand, grief appeared in
her countenance, and tears seemed to flow from her
eyes, which were turned upon the statue of her lover
placed on tbe other side ; a stream of blood seemed to
spring from his heart, and to dye the river Thammuz,
whose purple waters rolled with impetuosity towards
the sea. The frizes and the architraves were adorned
with sculptures in bas-relief, representing the three
metamorphoses of the goddess, the history of her un
faithfulness, and of all the effects ofAdonis's constan
cy."
The temple was built of fine Parian marble ; its im
mense vault represented that of heaven ; in the mid
dle of it appeared the chariot of the sun encircled by
the planets, and at a greater distance the empyreum
spangled with stars. Upon the altar stood a statue
of the goddess ; she held in her hand the globe of the
world, and upon her wonderful girdle were described
the twelve constellations. The artist had animated
the marble in such a manner, that the statue express
ed three different passions, according to the different
points of view from whence it was beheld ;* at a dis
tance it was a noble and majestic beauty, that seemed
to invite with a soft smile, accompanied with a tender
and modest look ; upon a nearer view, her face turned
towards the East, proclaimed the peaceful joy of a
* The Venus of Medici is said in like manner to have three differ
ent aspects, according to the different points of view from which it
is beheld.
The Travels of Cyrus. 2-53
soul that sees the beauty of truth, possesses it, and is
possessed by it ; when viewed from the other side, she
seemed to turn away her eyes, and despise those who
durst approach her with a profane heart and impure
thoughts. In the sculptures of the altar, Love,* un
der the shape of Adonis, seemed to descend from
eavea ; his infant look spoke nothing but candor, in
nocence and simplicity ; the virtues walked before
him, the muses followed him, and the graces hovered
about him ; he had no bandage upon his eyes, and
held in his hand a lighted torch, to shew that he en
lightens at the same time that he inflames.
When Cyrus entered the temple, he found all the
people clad in mourning, in a cavern, where the im
age of a young man was lying on a bed of flowers and
odoriferous herbs ; nine days were spent in fasting,
prayer and lamentations, after which the public sor
row was changed into gladness ; songs of joy succeed
ed to weeping,^ and the whole assembly began this
sacred hymn :—Adonis is returned to life, Urania
weeps no more, he is re-ascended to heaven, he will
soon come down again upon earth to banish thence both
crimes and miseriesforever.
Cyrus was struck with the august solemnity of the
Tyrian rites ; he knew nothing of the history of Ve
nus and Adonis but by the mythology of the Greeks,
and suspected that they had debased it according to
* Since there are two Venusses, says Plato, there must be two
Loves, and he calls this Love the great God.
t All these Tyrian rites are to be found in Lucian, St. Jerome,
St. Cyril, Julius Firmicus, Macjobius and Procopius. See Dis
course.
33
2-54 The Travels of Cyrus.
their custom. He desired Amenophis to explain to him
the true meaning of the Phenician ceremonies. The
wise Egyptian sat down by the young prince over
against the great gate of the temple, in a place from
whence they could see the statues of the god and god
dess, with all the bas-reliefs that represented their ad
ventures, and then said—" It is not long since the
Greeks were utter strangers to letters, the muses and
the sciences ; their understanding is still young ; they
have no true knowledge of antiquity : they have disfig
ured all the mysteries of the ancient religion by their
absurd fictions and cross images. The combats ofMy-
thras, the murder of Osiris, the death of Adonis, the
banishment of Apollo, and the labors of Hercules, re
present to us the same truths ; but different nations
have painted them under different similitudes ; what we
learn of them from the Tyrian annals is as follows :—
" Before the formation of the elements, the heavens
and the earth, an eternal silence reigned throughout all
theetherealregions, andthe.music ofthestarshad not yet
begun. The great god * Belus dwelt in an inaccessible
light with the goddess + . Urania, who incessantly
sprang from his head, and with the god % Adonis
whom he had engendered like unto himself. Belus
being more and more charmed with the beauty of his
son, desired that there might be several miniatures and
living images of him. Adonis, animated; by the power
* Belus, or Buali, was anciently one of the names of the true God
among the Hebrews. See Hosea, chap. ii. ver. 16. and Selden de.
Diis Syria, cap. i. Syntag. 2.
t Urania, Minerva, and Isis are the same. See Seld. cap. 4.
% Adonis comes from the word Adonia, one of the ten names of
God. Vid. D. Hier. Ep. ad Mareell.
The I Travels of Cyrus. 255
of Belus, moulded some rays of light, and made suns,
stars, and numberless worlds invisible to us ; but as yet
there were no inhabitants for them. He looked upon
his mother, and on a sudden he saw spring out from the
vast abyss a beautiful flower, which contained the soul
of the world ; Adonis breathed upon it ; what cannot
the almighty breath of a god! The flower swelled, ex
panded itself, and was changed into a young goddess,
whom he named Urania after his mother. Transported
with love and pleasure, he would have presented her to
his father, but she was hot yet able to support the splen
dor of the divine presence, or to breathe the pure air of
the empyreum.
"Adonis placed the young goddess in a star, in the
centre of the universe, from whence she could see the
course of all the heavenly bodies, and hear the music of
the celestial spheres. He then said to her—" Beauti
ful Urania, I love you, and design you for a more trans
cendent glory than what you at present enjoy ; I intend
to make you my spouse, bless you with a happy race
that shall people the heavens, and conduct you at last,
with all your children, into the sublime place above the
stars where my father dwells. The only condition I
require of you is, that you never wish to know more
than what suits your present state ; that unreasonable
curiosity would render you both unhappy and criminal.
Such are the immutable laws of Belus." Urania
thought herself too happy to enjoy her felicity on such
easy terms ; she loved Adonis more than all the glory
he promised her ; the sight of her lover made her for
get all his gifts ; he looked upon her with complacency,
and by this look made her pregnant ; she became the
mother of all the divinities, without ceasing to be the
250 The Travels of Cyrus.
immortal virgin ; she quickly peopled the stars with
gods and goddesses, who had no other law but that of
obeying the will of Adonis, loving each other tenderly
as the children of the same father, and aspiring by their
virtue to become one day worthy of seeing the god
Bel ns.
Urania continued long faithful ; she followed Ado
nis every where ; he led her through the immense spa
ces, to shew her the numberless worlds which he had
produced ; he often talked with her of the superior re
gions, and of the pleasure which she would one day
feel in knowing: him of whom all nature is but a faint
image, in comparing the original with its pictures, and
in seeing their various relations. These discourses
kindled in her a fatal curiosity ; she began to be wea
ry of her happiness, and had no longer any relish for
the pleasures she enjoyed. She durst not speak, but
Adonis perceived the first motions of her unfaithful
ness, and endeavored to stop its progress ; she grew
pensive, melancholy, distrustful, and broke out at last
in these bitter complaints :—" Adonis, cruel Adonis!
why did you give me the idea of a happiness which
makes me miserable ] You promised to carry me up
tp the empyreum, shew me the kingdom ofyour father,
and make me partaker of his glory ; you should
have concealed your designs from me, or have ac
complished them sooner." " Imprudent Urania, re
plied Adonis, you are going to ruin yourself in spite of
me ; you are not capable of beholding the god Belus,
you would not be able to support the splendor of his
presence, he will be loved as he deserves, before he
manifests himself as he is ; the smallest desire, the least
motion contrary to his order, is an encroachment on his
rights."
The Travels of Cyrus. 257
A vain curiosity and an ambitious desire of knowing'
Overcame the goddess ; she no longer beheld Adonis
with the same complacency, she no longer found the
same charms in his company, she received his caresses
with coldness and indifference ; he renewed all his en
deavors to cure her distempered mind, but to no pur
pose ; she forced him at length to leave her. The gods
are delicate in love, and cannot suffer a divided heart ;
he re-ascended to his father, and left her alone, hoping
that the pains of absence would recover her from her
error. As soon as he was gone, she renewed her com
plaints, and tormented herself with new reflections ;
she began to doubt, and by that doubting she became
darkened : she suspected all that Adonis had said to
her of his father and of the superior regions to be only
a chimera ; she forgot her origin and her dependent
state. To convince her of her error, she was thrown
down from the ethereal regions into the sphere of the
sun ; she drew after her the inhabitants of seven other
stars ; these luminous bodies lost their light, became
planets, and rolled about the sun to receive its influ
ence. The gods who inhabited them became demi
gods, and the goddess Urania was condemned to live
in the moon ; she now enjoyed only a borrowed light,
was clothed with an atrial and transparent body, which
the Greeks call the subtle vehicle of the soul ; she no
longer breathed as formerly the pure aether, which
made her fife and nourishment; she lived upon
nectar and ambrosia with demi-gods, whom she had
drawn after her in her fall. Adonis, ever faithful and
ever loving, descended into the sun to be nearer to his
beloved Urania ; he took the name ofApollo, and tried
new means to make her sensible of her fault. Some-
258 The Trawls of Cyrus.
times she was softened, she yielded to the sun's attrac
tion, and brought her silver car near his rays ; when on
a sudden she changed her sentiments, and wandered
from him : she became inconstant and fantastical, she
put on new forms, according as she retired from her
lover or approached him ; she at length gave way to
her ambition, and made the inhabitants of the planets
adore her under the name of Astarte, or the Queen of
heaven.
By the laws of immutable fate, it was necessary that
the goddess should undergo a new metamorphosis as a
punishment for her new crime. She fell from the moon
to the earth, and took the name of Venus. The in
habitants ofthe planets did not all follow her example ;
she seduced but a small number of them, and those de-
mi-gods became men, but men ofthe golden age ; they
were not yet guilty of gross crimes, they still preserved
some marks of their original nature. The goddess by
changing her element changed her food ; instead of
ambrosia she fed only upon fruits ; instead of drinking
nectar she quenched her thirst in limped streams and
clear fountains ; she had not as yet lost either her trans
parency or her agility ; she could mount into the air
when she pleased, but she could not rise to the superi
or regions. Adonis left the sun., took the form of a
young man, and dwelt with Venus upon earth. At
first she did not discover who he was, and fell in love
with him ; but having felt his divine influence, she
knew him, was afraid, and fled from him. He pursued
her, he called after her, and at last stopt her ; but she
escaped him again. He could have employed his al
mighty power, but the gods will be loved by choice ;
he endeavored to touch her heart by complaints and
The Travels of Cyrus. 259
tears, by caresses and threats, but she had no longer
any taste for the refined delights of virtue ; her first
pride was now changed into a profane love of pleasure,
and she forced Adonis to quit her a third time.
The inhabitants of the stars saw these repeated in
stances of Urania's ingratitude, and began to be shaken
in their obedience. Belus, said they, has no such aver
sion to vice as we imagined, since he does not punish
it ; since rebellion is not followed by misery, why are
we subject to laws '? It is true, Urania is no longer what
she was, but is still a goddess, and still happy ; provi
ded we enjoy pleasure, it is no matter upon what terms,
independence and liberty heighten the relish ofthe most
vulgar enjoyments. An universal revolt was breeding
through all the celestial regions, the designs of Belus
were going to be frustrated. He called up Adonis into
that solitude above the heavens, where he lived with
him before the formation ofthe stars, and said to him—
" I repent me to have drawn the imprudent Urania
from her original flower : you see her ingratitude and
her obstinacy, notwithstanding all your endeavors to re
claim her ; universal harmony is disturbed, the celestial
monarchy is shaken, and the heavenly spirits begin to
despise my sovereign laws. Should I pardon the in
habitants of the earth, my clemency would encourage a
revolt, and the sight oftheir impunity would have a bad
influence on all the inhabitants of the stars, who already
begin to murmur, and suspect my goodness of indiffer
ence with regard to crimes. I cannot vindicate the
honor of my laws nor confirm the immortals in their
duty, without annihilating the unfaithful goddess, and
all her rebellious children." These terrible words rent
the vault of heaven, resounded even to the abyss, and
260 The Travels of Cyrus.
frightened the kingdom of chaos and of eternal night,
Belus at length lifted up his sceptre, to re-plunge the
earth and all its inhabitants into their original nothing
Adonis threw himself at his father's feet; he withheld
his avenging arm by these words—" I love Urania,
notwithstanding her unfaithfufness. I see her errors,
and follies with grief; but her children are yours, since
they are mine ; punish them, but do not entirely destroy
them ; should they enjoy a happy immortality upon
earth they would think no more of re-ascending to heav
en ; curse their habitation, blast its beauty, expose the
guilty race to sickness and death, but let your punish
ments be remedies ; all the celestial and terrestrial de
ities who knew the crimes of Urania will see also her
misery, and be confirmed in their duty by her pun
ishment." He spoke, and suddenly the pillars of
the earth were shaken, the poles of the heaven
changed their situation, the sun grew pale and retired
to a greater distance, the moon and the five planets al
tered their motions, thunder, winds and rain, mingled and
confounded the elements, the herbs and flowers faded,
the trees dried up and withered, the earth refused its
usual bounty, the fruitfulness ofnature degenerated into
a horrible barrenness.
Venus, struck with terror, fell into a long swoon, and
when she recovered out of it,beheld nothing but desola
tion all around her ; she found herself in a frightful de
sert, upon the banks of the river Thammuz, whose
plaintive murmurs seemed to proclaim Urania's crime :
her misfortune did not change her heart, she sought to
compensate her real miseries, by creating herself im
aginary pleasures ; she caused temples to be erected
every where to her honor, she invented impure sacrifi
Tlie Travels of Cyrus. 261
ces and a profane worship ; her altars were quickly be
smeared with the blood of harmless animals ; instead
of oderiferous herbs and exquisite fruits, she fed upon
the flesh of the victims ; she sought for all sorts of
meats which might excite and nourish her sensuality,
she gave herself up to the blind instinct of pleasure,
her blood grew thick, and flowed no longer in her veins
with the same freedom and amenity ; the subtle vehi
cle of the soul was wrapt round with a terrestrial and
gross body ; Venus could no longer fly in the air, she
lost her lightness and transparency, and became mor
tal ; her children underwent the same fate, she saw
many of them expire before her eyes by intemperance
and voluptuousness ; others, hoping to shun the decrees
of fate, heaped mountains upon mountains, and en
deavored to scale heaven ; but being struck down and
crushed by thunderbolts, they dug themselves an abyss
in the bosom of chaos, Where Pluto, their chief, erect
ed his empire, and Venus was there adored under the
name of Proserpine.
The goddess became frantic, she ran about the
mountains and valleys, bewailing her children and
worshippers, and blasphemed against Belus. Adonis
heard her, he left the celestial regions, and came down
upon earth ; she perceived him at a distance, and
would have thrown herself into the water to hide her
self from his presence, but he stopped her and sat
down by her ; she held down her head with shame and
confusion, and was afraid to look upon him ; finding
at last that he made no reproach, she raised her eyes
from the ground, but durst not yet fix them upon his
face ; she recovered heart by degrees, she observed
him nearly, she beheld him pale, meagre and disfigur
34
262 The Travels of Cyrus.
ed ; he had no longer any remains of his former beau
ty, he was covered with wounds and bruises ; he con
tinued a long time silent, and durst not speak;
at last he said to her, "Ah Venus, inconstant
Venus! you bewail your own miseries, but you
are insensible to mine ; to what a condition have you
reduced me ! Judge of your guilt by my sufferings ;
the god Belus was going to destroy you and all your
race, if I had not softened him : I came down myself
upon earth to make reparation for your offences against
the immutable laws of the empyreum, and to make
war with all the monsters which your crimes have
brought forth. *I have killed the serpent Python, the
Nemean lion, the hydra of Lerna which sprang from
your head when you became false, the Centaurs that
devoured men, the Cyclops who forged the thunder
bolts, the wild boar of Erymanthus that wounded me
with his murderous tusks, the Symphalian birds that
spoiled the fruits of the earth, and the dragon which
had seized the garden of Hesperia ; I have driv
en them all down into hell, and am going to pursue
them thither, that I may complete my conquest." A-
donis, as he uttered these words, fell into a mortal ag
ony ; a stream of blood gushed forth from his heart,
and dyed the waters of the river Thammuz. All the
children of Vefius assembled about him ; he opened his
eyes from time to time, and repeated these words with
a sigh, Judge of your guiltby my sufferings. He con
tinued thus many hours, and at last expired through
an excess of pain. His soul descended into hell, to
* Mythras, Osiris, Adonis, Apollo, and Hercules, are the differ
ent names of the middle god.
The Travels of Cyrus. 263
deliver Theseus, Pirithous, all the heroes vanquished
by Pluto, and all the manes that suffered in those
gloomy habitations.
Venusbewailed her loverfor nine days and ninenights.
She continued disconsolate near the dead body, and
could not tear herself away from it. Being at length
exhausted with grief, she fell into a profound sleep,
nor did she awake till her ears were struck by a heav
enly voice ; she looked up and beheld Adonis in the air,
surrounded by the heroes, and all the shades which he
had brought back from the dark abode. He had re
sumed his first form and his pristine beauty ; he darted
upon her a heavenly ray, to restore her strength and
calm her spirit, and then said to her?—" I have follow
ed you, my dear Urania, I have followed you in
all your wanderings ; I descended into the moon,
upon earth, and even into hell, to deliver you and
your disloyal children ; I have suffered all that a
god can suffer, in seeing your falsehood and inconstan
cy ; but you are now no longer insensible to my love,
and I don't repent of my sufferings ; I leave you, but
my wisdom shall never forsake you, if you continue
faithful to me ; farewell, dear Urania, you can see
me no more till yeu be transformed into my image ;
the gods are only enamored with their own beauty. You
must suffer a thousand miseries before this happy met
amorphosis, nor can. you re-ascend to heaven, but by
the same way by which you fell from it ; you must first
be stripped of your terrestrial body by sufferings, dis
eases and death ; you shall then rise to the regions of
the moon, where you will undergo a second death, by
the destruction of your aerial body; your pure spirit,
6 free and disengagedfrom every thing that couM stop it,
will fly awa*y to the stars, where you will resume your
%
264 The Travels of Cyrus.
former beauty ; but you must at length lose even that,
before you are transformed into my image. When you
have undergone these three metamorphosis, expiated
your guilt by the purifying pains of each new trans
formation, practised upon earth, in the moon, and in
the stars, all the human, heroic and divine virtues,
you shall ascend with me into the sublime place above
the heavens, where you shall see the god Belus, and
the goddess my mother ; virtue, truth, and justice, not
as they are here below, but as they exist in hirh who is
being itself. Fear nothing, I will be present with you
in all these states, I will help you to support your suf
ferings, if you never cease to invoke me. Those of
your children who shall imitate your example, shall
re-ascend with you to the fields of Hecate, the rest
shall descend to the gloomy kingdom of Pluto, and be
there tormented till they are purified from their crimes.
I have chained up the fierce Cerberus, henceforward
he shall be only the vile instrument of my justice. I
have established judges in hell, who will inflict pun
ishments, only to exterminate vice ; they will not an
nihilate the essence of the soul, but restore it to a true
existence, by purging it of all irregular passions.—
When your children have been* plunged nine times in
*Ergo exercentur poenis, veterumque malorum
Supplicia expcndunt : Aliae panduntur inanes
Suspcnsae ad ventos: alius sub gurgite vasto
[nfectum eluitur scelus, aut exuritur igni :
Donee longa dies, perfecto temporis orbe,
Concretam exemit labem, purumque reliquit
/Etherium sensum, 8c aurai simplicis ignem.
Has omnes, ubi millc rotam volvere per annos,
Lethseum ad fluvium Deus evocat agmine magno,
Scilicet immemores supera ut convexa revisant.
jEn. l. 6. vkk. 740.
The Travels of Cyrus. 265
the purifying waves of the burning Acheron, the chil
ling Styx, the black Cocytus, and the foaming Phlege-
ton, they shall at length drink the waters of the river
Lethe, which will make them forget all their past mis
eries and crimes. When there shall be no longer any
mortal or immortal, in hell, upon earth, or in the plan
ets, that is not purified and prepared to behold my fa
ther, I will then return to banish all evils out of the
universe, abolish hell, and re-establish harmonythrough
out all the immensity of space; in the mean time as
semble those of your children who are willing to fol
low you, institute festivals to my honor, and let them
be annually celebrated with pomp to perpetuate the
memory of your unfaithfulness and of my love."
Cyrus was overjoyed to see that all nations were a-
greed in the doctrine of the three states of the world,
the three forms of the divinity, and a middle god, who
by his conflicts and great sufferings was to expiate and
exterminate moral evil, and restore innocence and peace
to the universe.
While he was yet at Tyre, couriers came from Persia
to inform him that Mandane was dying. This news
obliged him to suspend hisjourney to Babylon, and to
leave Phenicia in haste. At parting he embraced the
king of Tyre. " O Ecnibal ! said he, I envy neither
your riches nor your magnificence ; to be perfectly hap
py, I desire only such a friend as Amenophis." Cy
rus and Araspes crossed Arabia Deserta, and a part
of Chaldea ; they passed the Tigris near the place
where it joins the Euphrates, and entering Susiana,
arrived in a few days at the capital of Persia. Cyrus
hastened to see his mother ; he found her dying, and
gave himself up to grief, which he expressed by the
266 The Travels ofCyrus.
most bitter complaints. The queen being tenderly af
fected with the sight of her son, endeavored to mode
rate his affliction by these words : " Comfort yourself,
my son ; souls never die ; they are only condemned for
a time to animate mortal bodies, that they may expi
ate the faults they have committed in a former state.—
The time of my expiation is at an end ; I am going to
re-ascend to the sphere of fire ; there I shall see Per
seus, Arbaces, Dejocis, Phraortes, and all the heroes
from whom you are descended; I will tell them that,
you resolve to imitate them. There I shall see Cas-
sandana,she loves you still, death changes not the sen
timents of virtuous souls. We shall be always with
you, though invisible, we will descend in a cloud and
be your protecting genii ; we will accompany you in
the midst of dangers ; we will engage the virtues to at
tend you ; we will preserve you from all the errors and
vices which corrupt the hearts of princes. One day
your dominion will be extended, and the oracles ac
complished. O my son, my dear son, remember that
you ought to have no other view in conquering nations,
than to establish among them the empire of virtue and
reason." As she uttered these words, she turned pale,
a cold sweat spread itself over all her limbs, death
closed her eyes, and her soiU flew away to the empy-
reum. She was long lamented by all Persia, and
Cambyses erected a stately monument to her memory.
Cyrus's grief wore off only by degrees, and as neces
sity obliged him to apply himselfto affairs of State.
Cambyses was a religious and pacific prince ; he had
never been out of Persia, the manners of which were
innocent and pure, but austere and rugged : he knew
how to choose ministers capable ofsupplying what was
The Travels of Cyrus. 267
defective in his own talents : but he sometimes yielded
himself up too blindly to their conduct, from a diffi
dence of his own understanding. He prudently resolv
ed that Cyrus should himself enter into the administra
tion of affairs ; and having sent for him one day, said
to him—" Your travels, my son, have improved your
knowledge, and you ought to employ it for the good of
your country. You are destined not only to govern
this kingdom, but also one day to give law to all Asia ;
you should learn betimes the art of reigning, a study to
which princes seldom apply themselves ; they ascend
the throne before they know the duties of a king ; I
entrust you with my authority, and will have you ex
ercise it under my inspection ; the talents of Sorancs
will not be useless to you ; he is the son of an able min
ister, who served me many years with fidelity ; he is
young, but indefatigable, knowing, and qualified for
all sorts of employment.
Under the government of Cambyses -this minister
had found it necessary to appear virtuous, nay, he
thought himself really so, but his virtue had never been
put to the trial : Soranes did not himself know the ex
cess to which his boundless ambition could carry him.
When Cyrus applied himself to learn the state and
condition of Persia, her military strength, and her in
terests both foreign and domestic, Soranes quickly saw
with concern that he was going to lose much of his au
thority under a prince who had all the talents neces
sary for governing by himself ; he endeavored to cap
tivate the mind of Cyrus, and studied him a long time
to discover his weaknesses. The young prince was
not insensible to praise, hut he loved to deserve it ; he
had a taste for pleasure, but he was not a slave to it ;
268 The Travels of Cyrus.
he did not dislike magnificence, but he could refuse
himselfevery thing, rather than oppress his people.
Thus be was inaccessible to flattery, and proof against
voluptuousness arid pomp, Soranes perceived that
there was no mean to preserve his credit with Cyrus,
but by making himself necessary to him by his capaci
ty. He displayed all his talents in public and private
councils ; he shewed that he possessed the secrets of
the wisest policy and at the same time could enter into
that sort of detail in business, the knowledge of which
is one of the chief qualifications of a minister ; he pre
pared and digested matters with so much order and
clearness, that he left his master little to do. Any
other prince would have been charmed to see himself
excused from all application to business : but Cyrus
resolved to see every thing with his own eyes ; he had
a confidence in his father's ministers, but he would not
blindly yield himself up to their counsels. When So
ranes perceived that the prince would himselfsee every
thing to the bottom, he studied to throw obscurity over
the most important affairs, that he might make himself
yet more necessary. Cyrus observed the crafty con
duct of this able and jealous minister, and managed
him with so much delicacy, that he drew from him by
degrees what he endeavored so artfully to conceal.
When the prince thought himselfsufficiently instructed,
he let Soranes see that he would himself be his father's
first minister ; and in this manner moderate the author
ity of that favorite, without giving him any just cause
of complaint. The ambitious Soranes was neverthe
less offended at the prince's conduct, and could not
without mortal uneasiness see the fall of his credit, and
that he was no longer necessary ; this was the first
The Travels of Cyrus. 269
source of his discontent, which might have proved
fatal to Cyrus, if his virtue and prudence had not pre
served him from its effects.
Persia had for some ages been in subjection to Me
dia, but upon the marriage ofCambyses with Mandane,
it had been stipulated that the king of Persia should
for the future pay only a small annual tribute as a mark
ofhomage. From that time the Medes and Persians
had lived in perfect amity, till the jealousy of Cyaxares
kindled the fire of discord. The Median prince was
incessantly calling to mind, with vexation, the oracles
which were spread abroad concerning the future con
quests of young Cyrus ; he considered him as the de
stroyer of his power, and imagining already that he saw
him entering Ecbatana to dethrone him ; he was every
moment soliciting Astyages to prevent those fatal pre
dictions, weaken the strength of Persia, and reduce it
to its former dependence. Mandane, while she lived,
had so dexterously managed her father, as to hinder an
open rupture between him and Cambyses. But as
soon as she was dead, Cyaxares renewed his solicita
tions with the Median emperor.
Cambyses was informed of Cyaxares's designs, and
sent Hystaspes to the court of Ecbatana, to represent
to Astyages the danger of mutually weakening each
other's power, while the Assyrians, their common ene
my, were forming schemes to extend their dominion
over all the East. Hystaspes, by his address, put a
stop to the execution of Cyaxares's projects, and gain
ed Cambyses time to make his preparations in case of a
rupture.
The prince ef Media, seeing that the wise counsels of
. Hystaspes were favorably listened to by bis father, and
35
270 The Travels of Cyru*.
that there were no means suddenly to kindle a war,
attempted by other ways to weaken the power of Persia.
Being informed of Soranes's discontent, he endeavored
to gain him by an offer of the first dignities in the em
pire. Soranes at first was shocked at the very thought ;
but being afterwards deceived by his resentment, he
knew not himself the secret motives upon which he
acted ; his heart was not yet become insensible to vir
tue, but his lively imagination transformed objects, and
represented them to him in the colors neeessary to flat
ter his ambition ; at length he got the better of all re
morse, by reasoning with himself, that Cyaxares would
one day be his lawful emperor, and that Cambyses was
but a tributary master. There is nothing which we
cannot persuade ourselves to think, when blinded and
drawn away by strong passions. Thus he entered by
degrees into a close correspondence with Cyaxares,
and secretly employed all means to render Cyrus's ad
ministration odious to the Persians.
Cyrus had raised Araspes to the first dignities ofthe
army, upon account of his capacity and talent for war ;
but he could not bring him into the senate, because it
was a law in Persia, that no stranger should sit in the
supreme council: The perfidious Soranes, neverthe
less, pressed the young prince to infringe this law,
knowing that it would be a sure mean to excite the
jealousy of the Satrapes, and to stir them up against
Cyrus- " You have need, said he to him, of a man
like Araspes in your council : I know that good policy
and our rides forbid the intrusting of strangers with the
command of an army, and the secrets of State at the
same time ; but a prince may dispense with the laws
when he can fulfil the intention of them by more sure
The Travels of Cyrus. 271
and easy ways, and he ought never to be the slave of
rules and customs ; men ordinarily act either from am
bition or interest ; load Araspes with dignities and rich
es ; by that mean you will make Persia his country,
and will have no reason to doubt his fidelity. Cyrus
was not aware of Soranes's secret design, but he loved
justice too well to depart from it. "I am persuaded,
answered the prince, of the fidelity and capacity of
Araspes ; I love him sincerely : but though my friend
ship were capable of making me break the laws in his
favor, he is too much attached to me ever to accept a
dignity, which might excite the jealousy ofthe Persians*
and give them cause to think that I was influenced by
particular inclination and friendship in affairs of State."
Soranes, having in vain attempted to engage Cyrus
to take this false step, endeavored to surprise him an
other way, and to create a misunderstanding between
him and his father. He artfully made him observe the
king's imperfections, his want of capacity and genius*
and the necessity of pursuing other maxims than his.
" The mild and peaceful government ofCambyses, said
heto theprince,is incompatible with noble views ; ifyou
content yourself like him with a pacific reign, how wilL
you become a conqueror !" Cyrus made no other use of
these insinuations, than to avoid the rocks upon which
Cambyses had split ; he did not lessen his defer
ence and submission to his father, whom he tenderly
loved ; he respected him even in his failings which he
endeavored to conceal ; he did nothing without his or
ders, but consulted him in such a manner, as atthe same
time to give him a just notion of things ; he frequent
ly discoursed with him in private, that the king might
272 The Travel* of Cyrus.
be able to decide in public. Cambyses bad judgment
enough to distinguish, and made himself master of the
excellent advices of his son, who employed the superi
ority of his genius only to make his father's commands
respected, and never displayed his talents but to
strengthen the kings authority. So admirable a be
havior greatly increased Cambyses's affection and
esteem for him, and his confidence in him ; the prince
never abused it, but continued the same conduct, in
which he thought he did nothing more than his duty.
Soranes, enraged to see all his schemes frustrated
endeavored secretly to raise a distrust in the minds of
the Satrapes, as ifthe prince would encroach upon their
rights, and ruin their authority ; and in order to aug
ment their jealousy, he endeavored to inspire Cyrus
with despotic principles. You are destined by the gods,
said he, to stretch your empire one day over all the
East ; in order to a happy execution ofthis design, you
should accustom the Persians to a blind obedience ;
captivate the Satrapes by dignities and pleasures ; put
them under a necessity of frequenting your court, if
they would partake of your favors ; get the sovereign
authority by degrees into your own hands ; abridge the
rights of the senate, leave it only the privilege of giving
you counsel. A prince should not abuse his power,
but he ought never to share it with his subjects ; mon
archy is the most perfect kind of government ; the true
strength of a State, secrecy in councils, and expedition
in enterprises, depend upon the sovereign power's be
ing lodged in a single person. A petty republic may
subsist under the government of many heads, but great
empires can be formed only by the absolute authority
of one ; other principles are the chimerical ideas of
The Travels of Cyrut. 273
weak minds, who are conscious of their want ofcapacity
to execute great designs."
The prince was shocked at this discourse, but con
cealed his indignation out of prudence, and dexterously , ,
breaking off the conversation, left Soranes in a persua
sion that he relished his maxims. As soon as Cyrus
was alone, he made deep reflections on all that had
passed ; he called to mind the conduct of Amasis, and •
began to suspect Soranes's fidelity : he had not indeed
any certain proofs of his perfidiousness ; but a man
who had the boldness to suggest to him such counsels
seemed very dangerous at least, though he should not
be a traitor. The young prince by degrees excluded
this minister from the secret of affairs, and sought for
pretences to remove him from about his person, yet
without doing any thing to affront him openly. So
ranes quickly perceived this change, and carried his
resentment to the last extremeties ; he persuaded him
self that Araspes was going to be put in his place, that
Cyrus intended to make himself absolute master in
Persia, and that this was the prince's secret view in
disciplining his troops with so much exactness. The
jealousy and ambition of Soranes blinded him to such
a degree, that he imagined he did his duty in practising
the blackest treasons. He informed Cyaxares of all
that passed in Persia ; the augmentation of her forces,
the preparations which were making for war, and Cy
rus's design of extending his empire over all the East,
under pretext ofaccomplishing certain pretended ora
cles, by which he imposed upon the people. Cyaxa
res made advantage of these advices to alarm Astyages,
and to insinuate uneasiness and distrust into his mind ;
Hystaspes was ordered away from the court of Ecbata-
274 The Travels of Cyrus.
na, and the emperor threatened Cambyses with a
bloody war, if he did not consent to pay the ancient tri
bute, and return to the same dependence from which
Persia had been set free, upon his marriage with Man-
dane; Cambyses' refusal was the signal of the war,
and preparations were made on both sides.*
In the meanwhile Soranes endeavored to corrupt the
chief officers of the army, and weaken their courage,
by insinuating, that Astyages was their lawful empe
ror, that the ambitious designs of Cyrus would ruin
their country, and that they could never make head
against the Median troops, who would overwhelm
them with numbers. He continued likewise to increase
the distrust of the senators, by artfully spreading a ru
mor among them, that Cyrusundertook this war against
his grandfather only to weaken their authority, and to
usurp an absolute power. He concealed all his plots
with such art, that it was almost impossible to discov
er them ; every thing he said was with so much cau
tion, that there was no seeing intohis secret intentions;
nay, there were certain moments in which he did not
see them himself, but thought he was sincere and zeal
ous for the public good. His first remorses returned
from time to time, but he stifled them, by persuading
himself that the ill designs he imputed to the prince
were real. Cyrus was quickly informed of the mur
murs of the people ; the army was ready to revolt ; it
was doubtful whether the senate would give the neces
sary subsidies, and the emperor ofthe Medes was upon
the point of entering Persia at the head of sixty thou
sand men ; the prince was in the greatest grief to see
*Xenophon has surpressed this war, but Herodotus and other
historians mention it. See M. Ferret's letter.
The Travels of Cyrus. 275
the cruel extremities to which his father was reduced,
and the necessity of taking arms against his grandfa
ther.
Cambyses observing the prince's struggles between
nature and duty, said to him—"You know, my son,
all that I have done to stifle the first seeds of our dif
ferences ; I have labored to no purpose ; the war is in
evitable ; our country ought to be preferred to your
family ; hitherto you assisted me in business by your
prudence, you must now give proofs of your courage.
Would my age allow me to appear at the head of our
troops, yet my presence would be necessary here to
keep the people in awe ; go, my son, go and fight for
your country : shew yourself the defender of its liber
ty, as well as the preserver of its laws ; second the
designs of Heaven, render yourself worthy to accom-
. plish its oracles : begin by delivering Persia before you
think of extending your conquests ; let the nations see
the effects of your courage, and admire your modera-
ration in the midst of your triumphs, that they may not
hereafter fear your victories." Cyrus, encouraged by
the magnanimous sentiments of Cambyses, and aided
by the counsels of Harpagus and Hystaspes, two gen
erals of equal experience, formed an army of thir
ty thousand men, composed of commanders with
whose fidelity he was well acquainted, and veteran
troops of known bravery. As soon as all preparations
were made, they began by sacrifices and other religious,
rites. Cyrus, after this, drew up his troops in a spa
cious plain near the capital, assembled the senate and
the Satrapes, and, with a sweet and majestic air, thus
harrangued the officers of his army.
276 The Travels of Cyrus.
" War is unlawful when it is not necessary ; that
which we at present undertake, is not to satisfy ambi
tion or the desire of domination, but to defend our lib
erties. It is true, our enemies understand military dis
cipline, and they suqjass us in number ; but they are
softened by luxury and a long peace ; your souls are
full of that noble ardor which makes men despise
death when they are to fight for liberty ; your severe
life has accustomed you to fatigue ; nothing is impos
sible to those, whom no sufferings nor difficult enter
prises can dishearten. As for me, I will distinguish
myself from yon in nothing, but in leading the way
through labors and dangers ; all our prosperities and
all our misfortunes shall hereafter be common." He
then turned to the senators, and with a fierce and se
vere countenance said, " Cambyses is not ignorant of
the intrigues at the court of Ecbatana to sow jealousy
and distrust in your minds ; he knows that you hesitate
about giving him subsidies ; but having foreseen the
war, he has taken his precautions : one battle will de
cide the fate of Persia, he does not want your assis
tance. However, remember that the liberty of your
country is at present in question ; is not this liberty
more secure in the hands of my father, your lawful
prince, than in the emperor of the Medes, who holds
all the neighboring kings in a tributary dependence?
If Cambyses should be vanquished, your privileges are
lost forever ; if he prove victorious, they will be pre
served to you ; unless you force the justice of a prince,
whom you have incensed by your .secret cabals, to de
prive ,you of them." The prince, by this discourse,
intimidated some, confirmed others in their duty, and
united all in one design of contributing to the preser
The Travels of Cyrus. 277
vation of their country. Soranes appeared more zeal
ous than any, and earnestly requested to have some
command in the army. But as Cyrus bad not conceal
ed from Cambyses his just suspicions of that minister,
the king did not suffer himself to be imposed upon by
appearances ; under pretext of providing for the secu
rity of the capital, he kept him near his person, but
gave orders to watch his conduct ; so that Soranes was
a prisoner, without perceiving it.
Cyrus having learnt that Astyages had marched his
troops through the desert of Isatis, in order to enter
Persia, prevented him by a most surprising diligence.
He crossed over craggy mountains, the passes of which
he secured, and gained the plains of Pasagarda by
such routes, as would have been impracticable to any
others than an army accustomed to fatigue, and con
ducted by so active and vigilant a general. Cyrus seiz
ed the most advantageous posts, and encamped near
a ridge of mountains which defended him on one side,
fortifying himself on the other by a double entrench
ment. Astyages quickly appeared, and encamped in
the same plain near a lake, and the two armies con
tinued in sight of each other for several days. Cyrus
could not, without great concern, look forward to the
consequences of a war against his grandfather, and
therefore employed this time in sending to Astyages's
camp a Satrap, named Artabagus, who spoke to the
emperor in the following manner : " Cyrus, your
grandson, has an abhorence of the war which he has
been forced to undertake against you. He has neg
lected nothing to prevent it, nor will refuse any means,
to put an end to it ; he is not deaf to the voice of na
ture, but he cannot sacrifice the liberty of the Per
36
2T8 The Travels of Cyrus.
sians ; he would willingly reconcile, by an honorable
treaty, the love of his country with filial affection ; he
is in a condition to make war, but, at the same time, is
not ashamed to ask peace." The emperor, still irri
tated by Cyaxares, persisted in his first resolution, and
Artabasus returned without succeeding in his negocia-
tion.
Cyrus, seeing himself reduced to the necessity of
hazarding a battle, and knowing of what importance
it is, in affairs of war, to deliberate with many, to de
cide with few, and to execute with speed, assembled
his principal officers, and heard all their opinions ; he
then took his resolution, which he communicated only
to Hystaspes and Harpagus. The day following he
caused a rumor to be spread in the army of the enemy,
that he intended to retire, not daring to engage with
unequal forces. Before he left the camp, he ordered
the usual sacrifices to be offered : he made libations of
wine, and all the chief officers did the same. He gave
for the word, Mythras the conductor and savior, and
then mounting his horse, commanded every man to his
post. The soldier's cuirasses were composed of plates
of iron of divers colors, and like the scales of fishes ;
their casques were of brass, adorned with a great
white feather ; over their shields, made ofwillow twigs
interwoven, hung their quivers ; their darts were short,
their bows long, their arrows made of canes, and their
-scymitars hung upon their right thighs. The royal
standard was a golden eagle with its wings expanded ;
the kings of Persia have ever since had the same.
Cyrus decamped by night, and advanced in the
plains of Pasagarda : Astyages, imagining that the
prince fled before him, made haste to come up with him
The Travels of Cyrus. 27&
by sun-rising ; Cyrus on a sudden drew up his army
in order of battle, and only twelve deep, that the jave
lins and darts of the last rank might reach the enemy,
and that all the parts might support and assist each
other without confusion. He chose out of each bat
talion a select company, ofwhich he fromeda triangu
lar phalanx, after the manner ofthe Greeks ; he placed
this body of reserve behind his army, commanding it
not to stir till he himself should give express orders.
The plain was covered with dust and sand, and the
Borth wind blew hard. Cyrus, by wheeling a little,
posted his army so advantageously, that the rising dust
was driven full in the faces of the Medes, and favored
this stratagem ; Harpagus commanded the right wing,
Hystaspes the left, Araspes the centre, and Cyrus was
present every where. The army of the Medes was
composed of several square battalions thirty deep, all
standing close to be the more impenetrable ; in the
front were the chariots with great scythes fastened to
the axle-trees.
Cyrus ordered Harpagus and Hystaspes to extend
the two wings by degrees, in order to inclose the Medes.
While he was speaking, he heard a clap of thunder.
" We follow thee, great Oromazes," cried he, and in
the same instant began the hymn ofbattle, to which all
the troops answered with loud shouts, invoking the god
Mythras. Cyrus's army presented its front in a straight
line, to deceive Astyages ; but the centre marching
slower, and the wings faster, the whole was soon form
ed into a crescent. The Medes broke through the first
ranks ofthe centre, and advanced to the last ; they be
gan already to cry, Victory ! but Cyrus advanced with
his body of reserve, while Harpagus and Hystaspes
280 The Travels ofCyrus.
surrounded the enemy on all sides, and the battle was
renewed, The triangular phalanx of the Persians
pierced the battalions of the Medes, and turned aside
their chariots : Cyrus, mounted on a foaming steed,
flew from rank to rank ; the fire ofhis eyes animated the
soldiers, and the serenity of his countenance banished
all fear. In the heat of battle he was active, calm, and
present to himself; he spoke to some, encouraged oth
ers by signs, and kept every one in his post. The
Medes, being surrounded on all sides, were attacked in
front, in rear, and in flank ; the Persians close in upon
them and cut them in pieces ; nothing was heard but
the clashing of arms and the groans of the dying ;
streams of blood covered the plain ; despair, rage and
cruelty spread slaughter and death every where. Cy
rus alone felt a generous pity. Astyages and Cyaxa-
res being taken prisoners, he gave orders to sound a re
treat, and put an end to the battle.
Cyaxares, inflamed with rage, and with all the pas
sions that take hold of a proud mind when fallen from
its hopes, would not see Cyrus. He pretended to be
wounded, and sent to ask permission to return to Ec-
batana, to which Cyrus consented. Astyages was con
ducted with pomp to the capital of Persia, not like the
conquered prince, but like a victorious one. Being no
longer importuned by the evil counsels of his son, he
made a peace, and Persia was declared a free kingdom
forever. This was the first service that Cyrus did his
country. The success of this war, so contrary to the
expectation ofSoranes, opened his eyes. Had the event
been answerable to his desires, he would still have
continued in his perfidiousness ; but finding that his
projects were disconcerted, and that it was impossible
The Travels of Cyrus. 281
to conceal them any longer, he shrunk with horror to
behold the dreadful condition into which he had brought
himself, the crimes he had committed, and the
certain disgrace which would follow. Not able to en
dure this prospect, he fell into despair, killed himself,
and left a sad example to posterity, of the excesses to
which boundless ambition may carry the greatest gen-
iusses, even when their hearts are not entirely corrupt
ed. After his death, Cyrus was informed of all the
particulars of his treachery. The prince, without ap
plauding himself for having early seen into the char
acter of this minister, beheld with concern and lament
ed the unhappy condition of man, who often loses all
the fruits of his talents, and sometimes precipitates him
self into the greatest crimes, by giving way to an un
ruly imagination and a blind passion.
As soon as the peace was concluded, Astyages re
turned into his own dominions. After his departure,
Cyrus assembled the senators, Satrapes, and all the
heads of the people, and said to them in the name of the
king—" My father's arms have set Persia free from all
foreign dependence. He might now, with a victorious
army at his devotion, destroy your privileges, and gov
ern with absolute authoriry ; but he abhors such max
ims. It is only under the empire of Arimanius that
force alone presides ; princes are the images of the great
Oromazes, and ought to imitate his conduct ; his sov
ereign reason is the rule of his will : how wise and just
soever princes may be, they are still but men, and con
sequently have prejudices and passions ; nay, were they
exempt from these, they cannot see and hear every
thing; they have need of faithful counsellors to inform
and assist them. It is thus that Cambyses resolves to
govern ; he will reserve no more power than is necessa
282 The Travels of Cyrus.
ry to do good, and chooses to have such restraints as
may hinder him from doing ill : Senators, banish your
fears ; lay aside your distrusts ; recognize your king.
He preserves all your rights to you ; assist him in mak
ing the Persians happy ; he desires to reign over free
children, and not over slaves." At these' words, joy
was diffused through the whole assembly. Some cri
ed out, Is not this the god Mythras himself come down
from the empyreum to renew the reign of Oromazes ?
Others, dissolved in tears, were unable to speak. The
old men looked on him as their son, the young men
called him father ; all Persia seemed but one family.
It was thus that Cyrus avoided all the snares of So-
ranes, triumphed over the plots of Cyaxares, and re
stored liberty to the Persians. He never had recourse
to cowardly artifice, nor mean dissimulation unworthy
ofgreat souls.
Astyages died soon after his return to Ecbatana, and
left the empire to Cyaxares. Cambyses, foreseeing
that the turbulent and jealous spirit ofthat prince would
soon excite new disturbances, resolved to seek an al
liance with the Assyrians. The emperor of Media and
the king of Babylon had been for an hundred years
past the two rival powers of the East ; they were
continually endeavoring to weaken each other, in
order to become masters of Asia. Cambyses, who
knew his son's abilities, proposed to him that he should
go in person to the court of Nabuchodonosor, to treat
with Amytis, the wife of that prince and sister ofiMan-
dane ; she governed the* kingdom during the king's
madness. Cyrus had been hindered from going thith
er some years before, by his mother's sickness. He
was exceedingly pleased with a journey to Babylon.
The Travels of Cyrus. 283
not only that he might serve his country, but that he
might likewise have an opportunity of conversing with
the Hebrews, whose oracles (as he had learned from
Zoroaster) contained predictions ofhis future greatness ;
and he had no less desire to see the miserable condition
of king Nabuchodonosor, the report of which was
spread over all the East. Having filled the council
and senate with men of approved loyalty and capacity
he left Persia, crossed Susanna, and soon arrived at
Babylon.
EIGHTH BOOK.
******
BABYLON, the seat of the Assyrian monarch,
had been founded by Semiramis, but Nabuchodono-
sor had given it its principal beauties. This conquer
or, after long and difficult wars, finding himself in
perfect tranquility, applied his thoughts to make his
capital one of the wonders of the world. It was situ
ated in a vast plain, watered by the Euphrates ; the
canals cut from this river made the fruitfulness of the
soil so great, that it yielded the king as much as the
half of this empire. The walls of the city were built
of large brick, cemented together with bitumen, or a
slime arising out of the earth, which in time became
harder than marble ; they were fifty cubits thick, two
hundred high, -and formed a perfect square twenty
leagues in compass ; an hundred and fifty towers, rais
ed at certain distances upon these inaccesssible walls,
commanded all the country round about ; an hundred
gates of brass, regularly disposed, opened to an in
numerable multitude of people of all nations ; fifty
great streets traversed the city from side to side, and
by crossing each other formed above six hundred large
divisions, in which were stately palaces, delightful
gardens, and magnificent squares. The Euphrates
flowed through the middle of Babylon, and over that
river was a bridge built with surprising art; at its two
extremities were two palaces, the old one to the east,
the new one to the west ; near the old palace was the
temple of Belus : from the centre of this building rose
The Travels of Cyrus. 285
a pyramid six hundred feet high, and composed of
eight towers one above another ; from the top of this
pyramid the Babylonians observed the motions of the
stars, which was their favorite study, and by which
they made themselves famous in other nations. At
the other end of the bridge stood the new palace,
which was eight miles in circuit ; its famous hanging
gardens which were so many large terraces one above
another, rose like an ampitheatre to the height of the
city-walls : the whole mass was supported by divers
arches built upon other arches, all covered with broad
stones strongly cemented, and over them was first a
layer of reed mixed with bitumen, then two rows of
bricks, and over these thick sheets.of lead, which
made the whole impenetrable to rain or any moisture :
the mould which covered all was of that depth, as to
have room enough for the greatest trees to take root iu
it. In these gardens were long walks, which ran as
far as the eye could reach ; bowers, green plats and
flowers of all kinds ; canals, basons and aqueducts to
water and adorn this place of delights ; a most surpri
sing collection of all the beauties of nature and art.
The author, or rather the creator of so many prodi
gies, equal to Hercules in bravery, and superior to the
greatest men by his genius, was, after incredible suc
cesses, fallen into a kind of madness ; he imagined
himself transformed into a beast, and had all the fierce
ness of one. As soon as Cyrus was arrived at Baby
lon, he went to see queen Amylis. This princess had
for near seven years been plunged in a deep sadness ;
but she was beginning to moderate her grief, because
the Hebrews, who were then captives in the city, had
37
286 The Travels of Cyrus.
promised her that the king should be cured in a few
days.
The queen was waiting that happy moment with
great impatience ; the wonders she had seen performed
by Daniel made her confide in what he said. Cyrus,
from a respectful consideration ofthe affliction of Amy-
tis, avoided speaking to her concerning the principal
design of his journey ; he was sensible that it was not a
favorable conjuncture to treat of political affairs, and
Avaited for the king's cure, though with little hopes.
In the meanwhile he endeavored to satisfy his curiosity
touching the religion and manners of the Israelites.
Daniel was not then at Babylon, but he was gone to
visit and console the Hebrews dispersed throughout
Assyria. Amytis made Cyrus acquainted with an il
lustrious Hebrew, named Eleazar. The prince being
informed that the people of God did not look upon the
king's frenzy as a natural distemper, but as a punish
ment from Heaven, desired the Hebrew philosopher to
tell him the reason of it.
" Nabuchodonosor, said the Hebrew sage, being led
away by impious men who were about him, came at
length to such an excess of irreligion, that he blasphem
ed against the Most High ; and to crown his impiety,
he erected a golden statue of an enormous size in the
plain of Duia, and commanded that it should be ador
ed by all the nations he had subdued. He was admon
ished by divine dreams, that he should be punished for
his idolatry and pride in his life. A Hebrew, named
Daniel, a man famous for science, virtue and his know
ledge of futurity, explained to him those dreams, and
denounced God's judgments which were ready to fall
upon him. The words of the prophet made at first
The Travels of Cyrus. 287
some impression upon the king's mind ; but being sur
rounded by profane men, who despised the heavenly
powers, he neglected the divine admonition, and gave
himself up anew to his impiety. At the end ofthe year,
while he was walking in his gardens, admiring the
beauty of his own works, the splendor of his glory, and
the greatness of his empire, he exalted himself above
humanity, and became an idolater of his own proud im
aginations. He heard a voice from heaven, saying, O
king Nabuchodonosor, to thee it is spoken, The king
dom is departed from thee, and they shall drive thee
from men, and thou shalt eat grass as the beasts of the
field, till seven years are passed, and until thou know
that the Most High ruleth over all the kingdoms ofthe
universe, and giveth them to whomsoever he will. In
the same hour was the thing fulfilled, and his reason
was taken from him ; he was seized with a frenzy, and
with fits of raging madness ; in vain they attempted to
hold him by chains ; he broke all his irons, and ran
away into the mountains and plains roaring like a lion ;
no one can approach him, without running the hazard
of being torn in pieces. He has no repose, nor inter
vals of reason, except one day in the week which is the
Sabbath ;* he then holds discourses which should
strike the impious with terror. It is now almost seven
years that he has been in this condition, and we are ex
pecting his total recovery in a few days, according to
the divine prediction."
Here Cyrus sighed, and could not forbear saying.
" In all the countries through which I pass, I see no-
* See Megast. and Abyden. quoted by Josephus. Ant. lib. 10. cap.
11 . and by Euseb. Prsep. Evang. lib. 9. cap. 4 1 .
28S The Travels of Cyrus.
thing but sad examples ofthe weakness and misfortunes
of princes : In Egypt, Apries suffers himself to be made
a sacrifice by his blind friendship for a perfidious fa
vorite ; at Sparta, two young kings were going to ruin
the State, if not prevented by the wisdom of Chilo ;
the deplorable fate ofPeriander and his whole family at
Corinth, will be a dreadful example to posterity of the
miseries which tyrants and usurpers draw upon them
selves ; at Athens, Pisistratus is twice dethroned ;
Polycrates, king of Samos, suffers himself to be impos
ed upon so far, as to persecute innocence ; in Crete, the
successors of Minos have destroyed the most perfect of
all governments ; here Nabuchodonosor draws upon
himself the wrath of Heaven by his impiety. Great
Oromazes ! was it only in your anger, then, that you
gave kings to mortals ? Are grandeur and virtue in-
Compatible!"
The morning of the Sabbath, Cyrus, accompanied by
Eleazar, went to the place which the king of Babylon
frequented ; they beheld the unfortunate prince come
out of the Euphrates, and lie down under some willows
which were upon the banks of the river. They ap
proached him in silence ; he was stretched upon the
grass, with his eyes turned towards heaven ; from time
to time he sent forth deep sighs, accompanied with bit
ter tears ; in the midst of his misfortunes there was still
upon his face an air of greatness, which shewed
that the Most High in punishing had not entirely for
saken him. They forbore, out of respect, to speak to
him, or to interrupt the profound grief in which he seem
ed to be plunged. Cyrus, deeply struck with the sad
situation of this great prince, stood immoveable, and
on his countenance appeared all the tokens of a soul
The Travels of Cyrus. 289 -
seized with terror and compassion. The king ofBab
ylon observed it, and without knowing who he was,
said to him : " Heaven suffers me to have intervals of
reason, to make me sensible that I do not possess it as
a property; that it comes from another; that a supe
rior being takes it from me, and restores it when he
pleases ; and that he who gives it me is a sovereign in
telligence, who holds all nature in his hand, and can
dispose it in order, or overturn it according to his pleas
ure. Heretofore, being blinded by pride and corrupted
by prosperity, I said within myself, and to all the false
friends who were about me, We are born as it were by
chance, and after death we shall be as if we had never
been ; the soul is a spark of fire, which goes out when
the body is reduced to ashes ; come, let us enjoy the
present good, let us make haste to exhaust all plea
sures ; let us drink the most delicious wines, and per
fume ourselves with odoriferous oils ; let us crown our
selves with roses before they wither ; let strength be
our only law, and pleasure the rule of our duty ; let us
make the just fall into our snares, because he dishon
ors us by his virtue ; let us examine him with affronts
and torments, that we may see whether he be sincere.
Thus it was that I blasphemed against heaven, and
this is the source of my miseries ; alas ! I have but too
much deserved them." Scarce had he pronounced these
words when he started up, ran away, and hid himself
in the neighboring forest.
The words ofNabuchodonosor augmented the young
prince's respect for the Deity, and redoubled his
desire of being fully instructed in the religion of the
Hebrews ; he frequently saw Eleazar, and by degrees
contracted a close friendship with him. The eternal
290 The Travels of Cyrus.
Being, watchful over Cyrus, whom he had chosen to
bring about the deliverance of his people, thought fit to
prepare him, by his conversation with the Hebrew sage,
to receive soon after the instructions of the prophet
Daniel. Ever since the captivity of the Israelites, the
Hebrew doctors, who were dispersed in the several
nations, had applied themselves to the study of the pro
fane sciences, and endeavored to reconcile religion with
philosophy. In order thereto, they embraced or for
sook the literal sense of the sacred books, according as
it suited with their notions, or was repugnant to them.
They taught that the Hebrew traditions were often
folded up in allegories, according to the eastern custom,
but they pretended to explain them ; and this was what
gave rise afterwards to that famous sect among the
Hebrews called the Allegorists. Eleazar was of the
number of those philosophers, and was with reason es
teemed one of the great geniuses of his age ; he was
versed in all the sciences of the Chaldeans and Egyp
tians, and had held several disputes with the eastern
magi, to prove that the religion of the Hebrews was
not only the most ancient, but the most conformable to
reason. Cyrus having divers times discoursed with
Eleazar upon all he had learned in Persia, Egypt and
Greece, concerning the great revolutions which had
happened in the universe, desired him one day to ex
plain to him the doctrine of the Hebrew philosophers,
concerning the three states of the world.
" We adore, answered Eleazar, but one only God,
infinite, eternal, immense. He has defined himself,
HE WHO IS, to denote that he exists of himself,
and that all other beings exist only by him. Being
rich by the riches of his own nature, and happy by
The Travels of Cyrus. 291
his own supreme felicity, he had no need to produce
other substances to augment Lis glory; nevertheless,
by a noble and free effort of bis benificentwill, he has
created divers orders of intelligences to make them
happy. Man first forms the plan of his work before
he executes it ; but THE ETERNAL, conceives, pro
duces, and disposes every thing in order by the same
act, without labor or succession. He thinks, and im
mediately all the possible ways of representing himself
outwardly appear before him ; a world ofideas presents
itself to the divine intellect, rle wills, and instantly
real beings, resembling those ideas, exist in his immen
sity ; the whole universe, and the vast expanse of na
ture, distinct frod? the divine essenoe, is produced.
The Creator has represented himselftwo ways, by sim
ple pictures, and by living images. Hence there are
two sorts of creatures essentially different, material na
ture and intelligent nature ; the one represents only
some perfections of its original, the other knows and
enjoys it ; there are an infinite number of spheres full
of such intelligent beings. Sometimes these spirits
plunge themselves into the unfathomable depth of the
divine nature to adore its beauties, which are ever
new ; at other times they admire the perfections of the
Creator in his works ; this is their two-fold happiness.
They cannot incessantly contemplate the splendor of
the divine essence ; their weak and finite nature re
quires that they should sometimes veil their eyes ; this
is the reason why the material world was created, the
refreshment of the intellectual.
" Two sorts of spirits lost their happiness by their
disloyalty ; the one, called cherubim, were of a superi
or order, and are now infernal spirits ; the other, call
292' The Travels of Cyrus.
ed ischim, were ofa less perfect nature ; these are the
souls which actually inhabit mortal bodies. The chief
of the cherubim approached nearer the throne than the
other spirits : he was crowned with the most excellent
gifts ofthe Most High, but lost his wisdom by a vain
complacency in himself. Being enamored with his
own beauty, he beheld and considered himself, and
was dazzled with the lustre of his own light ; he grew
proud, rebelled, and drew into his rebellion the greater
part of the genii of his order. The ischim became too
much attached to material qbjects, and in the enjoy
ment of created pleasures forgoMhe supreme beatitude
of spirits ; the.first were too mut^i elated with pride,
the second debased themselves by^tepnsuality. Upon
this there happened a great revolution in the heavens ;
the sphere of the cherubim became a dark chaos, where
those unhappy intelligences deplore without consola
tion their lost felicity. The ischim being less guilty,
because they had sinned through weakness, were less
severely punished.
That they might forget their former state, God suf
fered them to fall into a kind of lethargy or fatal insen
sibility, from which they awake only to enter succes
sively into mortal bodies. The organic moulds ofall hu
man bodies were shut up in that of Adam, and the order
of generation was established ; each soul awakens in
such a body, and in such time, place and circumstan
ces, as suit best with the decrees of eternal wisdom.
The earth changed its form, it was no longer a garden
of delights, but a place of banishment and misery,
where the continual war of the elements subjected
men to diseases and death. This is the hidden mean
ing of the great Hebrew lawgiver, when he speaks of
The Travels of Cyrus. 293
the terrestrial paradise, and of the fall of our first pa
rents, Adam does not represent one single man, but
all mankind. Every nation has its allegories, and we
have ours. Those who do not comprehend them, look
upon our history of the forbidden fruit, and of the
speaking serpent, as fables more absurd than the my
thology of the Persians, Egyptians and Greeks, con
cerning the fall of Arimanius, the rebellion of Typhon,
and the golden apples in the garden of the Hesperides.
All these allegories are founded upon the same tradi
tion more or less disguised. The weak and ignorant in
every religion stick to the letter which kills, and the
impious scoff at it ; .but neither the one nor the other
understand the spi(0t which gives life.
" Souls being once disunited from their origin, had
no longer any fitted principle of union ; the order of
generation, mutual wants and self-love, became here
below the only bonds ofour transient society, and took
the place of justice, friendship, and the love of order,
which unite the heavenly spirits. Divers other chan
ges happened in this mortal abode, suitable to the state
of souls who suffer, and deserve to suffer, and are to
be cured by their sufferings. In the end the great
Prophet, whom we call the Messiah, will come and
restore order in the universe. It is he who is the heacl,
and the conductor of all intelligent natures ; he is the
first-born of all creatures ; the Deity united himself to
him in an intimate manner from the beginning of time,
and he has united himself to a portion of matter which
serves him for a tabernacle ; from this luminous centre
incessantly stream rays that enlighten all the region*
ofimmensity ; this glorious body is the sun of the heav
enly Jerusalem : the emanations of this adorably She"-.
38
294 The Travels ofCyrus.
chinaii are the life and light of all bodies, as those of
his divinity are the reason and happiness of all intelli
gences. It was this Messiah who conversed with our
fathers under a human form ; it was he who appeared
to our lawgiver upon the holy mount ; it was he who
spoke to the prophets under a visible appearance ; it is
he who will at last come in triumph upon the clouds, to
restore the universe to its primitive splendor and felici
ty. How august a thing is religion, how worthy of
God, how sublime in its simplicity, when the veil
which hides it from profane eyes is removed !"
Cyrus, transported with these sublime ideas, would
by no means interrupt the philosopher ; but seeing that
he had done speaking, he said : " ttfind that your the
ology is perfectly conformable to the 'doctrine of the
Persians, Egyptians and Greeks, concerning the three
states of the world. Zoroaster, being versed in the
sciences of the Gymnosophists, spoke to me of the em
pire of Oromazes before the rebellion of Arimanius,
as of a state in which all spirits were happy and per
fect. In Egypt, the religion of Hermes represents the
reign of Osiris, before the monster Typhon broke
through the mundane egg, as a state exempt from
miseries and passions. Orpheus has sung the golden
age as a state of simplicity and innocense. Each na
tion has formed an idea of this primitive world accord
ing to its genius ; the magi, who are all astronomers,
have placed it in the stars ; the Egyptians, who are all
philosophers, have fancied it a republic of sages'; the
Greeks, who delight in rural scenes, have described
it as a country of shepherds. I farther observe that
the traditions of all nations foretel the coming: of a he-
ro, who is to descend from heaven to bring; back As
The Travels of Cyrus. 295
trca to the earth. The Persians call him Mythras, the
Egyptians Orus, the Tyrians Adonis, the Greeks A-
pollo, Hercules, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, the Con
ductor and Savior. It is true they differ in their de
scriptions, but all agree in the same truths ; they are
all sensible that man is not now what he was, and be
lieve that he will one day assume a more perfect form.
God cannot suffer an eternal blemish in his work ; evil
had a beginning, and it will have an end ; then will be
the triumph of light over darkness ; that is the time
fixed by destiny for the total destruction of Typhon,
Arimanius and Pluto, the prescribed period in all re
ligions for re-establishing the reigns of Oromazes, O-
siris, Belus and Saturn. Nevertheless, there arises
one great difficulty, which no philosopher has yet been
able to solve me. I do not conceive how evil could
happen under the government of a God who is good,
wise and powerful ; if he be wise, he might have fore
seen it ; if he be powerful he might have hindered it ;
and if he be good, he would have prevented it. Shew
me which way to justify the eternal wisdom ; why has
God created free beings, intelligences capable of evil ?
why has he bestowed on them so fatal a gift ?"
" Liberty, answered Eleazar, is a necessary conse
quence of our reasonable nature. To be free, is to be
able to choose ; to choose, is to prefer. Every being,
capable of reasoning and comparing, can prefer, ami
consequently choose. It is true, in every choice we
necessarily choose what appears to us the best, but we
can suspend our choice till we have examined whether
the good that presents itself be a real good, or only an
apparent one. The soul is not free to see or not see
•'he objects she looks upon, to discern or not discern
296 The Travels of Cyrus.
their differences when she sees them, or to choose with
out a reason for choosing ; but she is free to look or
not look, to consider objects on one side only or on sev
eral, to choose them for a good or a bad reason. We
are never invincibly captivated by any finite good, be
cause we are able to think ofa greater good, and so may
discover a superior charm, which will carry us away
from the less attractive object ; and it is on this activity,
natural to all rational beings, that liberty depends.
Spirits only are active, and capable of self-motion.
God gives them activity as well as being ; an activity
different from his, as well as substance distinct from
his. One of the essential differences between bodies
and souls is this ; the one are necessarily transported
wherever the moving power carries them, the other suf
fer themselves to be moved only by the reason that en
lightens them. God could not give us intelligence,
without giving us liberty."
" But could he not, replied Cyrus, have hindered us
iVom abusing our liberty, by showing us truth with so
clear an evidence, that it would have been impossible
to mistake '? When the sovereign Beauty displays his
infinitely attractive charms, they seize and engross the
whole will, and make all inferior amiableness vanish, as
the rising sun dispels the shades of night." " The
purest light, answered Eleazar, does not illuminate
those who will not see ; now every finite intelligence
may turn away his eyes from the truth. I have already
told you, that spirits cannot incessantly contemplate the
splendors of the divine essence ; they are obliged from
time to time to cover their faces ; it is then that self-
love may seduce them, and make them take an appar
ent good for a real one ; this false good may dazzle
The Travels of Cyrus. 297
them and draw them away from the true good. Self-
love is inseparable from our nature. God in loving
himself essentially loves order, because He is order ;
but the creature may love itself without loving order :
to what degree of perfection soever we suppose it raised,
it is still finite, and consequently capable of pursuing,
contrary to the will ofthe Creator, a good which it has
not in its possession ; hence every created spirit is ne
cessarily and essentially fallible. To ask why God has
made fallible intelligences, is to ask why he has made
them finite, or why he has not created gods as perfect as
himself. A thing impossible."
" Cannot God, continued Cyrus, employ his almighty
power to force free intelligences to see and relish
truths ?" " Under the empire of God himself, answer
ed Eleazar, despotic rule and liberty are incompatible.
God does every thing he pleases in heaven and upon
earth ; but he will not employ his absolute power to
destroy the free nature of intelligent beings ; if he did,
they would act no longer from choice, but necessity ;
they would obey but, they would not love. Now love
is what God Remands and it is the only worship worthy
of him ; he does not require it for any advantage to
himself, but for the good ofhis creatures ; he will have
them happy, and contribute to their own happiness :
happy by love, and by love of pure choice. It is thus
that their merit augments their felicity."
" But could not the Deity, said Cyrus, have employ
ed infallible means to secure the happiness ofintelligent
beings, without violating their liberty ? Has he not a
sovereign dominion over spirits as well as bodies? Can
he not change the most rebellious and stubborn wills,
and make them pliable and submissive to his orders ?
298 The Travels of Cyrus.
In a word, could he not have found expedients in the
inexhaustible treasures of his power, wisdom and good
ness, to subject free agents as well as necessary ones to
his eternal purposes'?" "Doubtless, answered Elea-
zar : we cannot form too high an idea of the perfections
ofthe infinitely perfect Being ; he wills the happiness
of all intelligences, knows all the means requisite to
accomplish his will, and sooner or later will render
those means absolutely and infallibly efficacious, with
out violating the liberty of spirits. The permission of
sin, expiatory pains, and all the fatal consequences of
our rebellion, are a part of those means and ofthe plan
of his adorable providence. God first exerted all the
efforts of his power, he exhausted, so to speak, all the
treasures of his wisdom, he displayed all the charms of
his goodness, he neglected nothing to prevent the fall of
spirits. Seeing at last that he could not keep them in
the love of order, without violating their liberty, he left
them for a moment to the fatal consequences of their
wanderings, because he knew how to make all end in
the accomplishment of his degrees. He who calls be
ing out of nothing, can draw an infinite good from a
transient evil, order from confusion, the universal beau
ty of his work from a slight blemish which he suffers in
it, and the permanent happiness of all spirits from the
momentaneous pains which a small number of intelli
gences suffer by their own fault. All the heavenly
hosts are spectators of what passes here below, and are
confirmed forever in the love of order, by seeing the ter
rible effects and natural consequences of our unfaithful
ness. This is the reason why God suffers evil for a
moment : our example is an eternal lesson to all spirits.
The conduct of God offends ns, onlv because we are
The Travels of Cyrus. 299
finite and mortal. We see not the whole plan of it, we
judge of it only by small pieces. Let us raise our
thoughts above this place of banishment, let us run ov
er all the celestial regions, we shall see disorder and
evil no where but in this corner of the universe. The
earth is but an atom, in comparison of immensity ; the
whole extent oftime is but a moment, in respect of eter
nity. These two infinitely small points will one day
disappear ; yet a little moment, and evil will be no
more ; but our limited minds and our self-love magni
fy objects, and make us look upon that point which di
vides the two eternities as something great."
" Could not the infinite goodness of God, said Cyrus,
have brought back his offending creatures to order,
without making them suffer ; a good father will never
make use of punishments, when he can gain his chil
dren by mildness."
" I have already told you, answered Eleazar, that
we are capable of a two-fold happiness. Should God,
after our rebellion, continue to us the full enjoyment of
created pleasure, we should never aspire to an union
with the Creator ; we should content ourselves with an
inferior happiness, without any endeavors to attain the
supreme beatitude of our nature. The only means to
hinder free beings from relapsing into disorder, is to
make them feel for a time the fatal consequences of
their error. God owes it to his justice to punish the
guilty, that he may not countenance crimes ; and his
goodness likewise requires it, in order to correct and
reform the criminal. Natural eyil is necessary to cure
moral ; suffering is the only remedy for sin. All will
suffer more or less in proportion, as they are more or
less gone astray. Those who have never departed from
300 The Travels of Cyrus.
their duty, will forever excel the rest in knowledge
and happiness ; those who delay their return to it, will
be always inferior to the other in perfection and felici
ty. The return of spirits to their first principle, re
sembles the motion of bodies towards their centre ; the
nearer they approach to it, the more their velocityaug
ments, and consequently those who begin sooner to re
turn to their infinite centre, will forever outstrip the rest
in their course. This is the order established by eter
nal wisdom, the immutable law of distributive justice,
from which God cannot deviate, without being essen-
tially wanting to himself, countenancing rebellion, and
exposing all infinite and infallible beings to the danger
of disturbing universal harmony. You see in all this
the conduct of a God, ofa Creator, who drew spirits out
of nothing, to make them happy : he punishes them,
that they may return into order ; he suspends the exer
cise of his absolute power, that by the secret springs of
an immutable wisdom, goodness and justice, he may
make them accomplish freely his eternal purposes."
" I comprehend you, said Cyrus : God could not de
prive us ofliberty, without depriving us ofintelligence ;
nor hinder us from being fallible, without making ns
infinite ; nor prevent our wandering, without destroying
our liberty ; nor dispense usfrom expiatory pains, with
out violating his justice and goodness. Exempt from
all passions, he has neither anger nor revenge, he chas
tises only to amend, he punishes only to cure, he per
mits sin only that he may not violate our liberty ; he is
tender of that liberty only that he may make us merit,
he exacts that merit only to augment our happiness ;
he does not employ liis almighty power to force us to be
happy, because he will give us the eternal pleasure of
The Travels of Cyrus. 301
contributing to our happiness by love, and by a love of
pure choice ; he does good for the love of good, with
out having any need of our services, without gaining
any thing by our virtues, or losing any thing by our
crimes. Such is the glory of the God ofthe Hebrews,
of Him who is, of the independent and self-sufficient
Being. No philosopher ever presented me before with
a chain of principles and consequences, thoughts and
sentiments, so worthy of the eternal nature, so conso
latory to man, and so conformable to reason."
" This, continued Eleazar, is what even the under
standing of man can suggest to render the ways of
God intelligible : It is thus that we confound reason,
by reason itself; it is by these principles, that our
doctors silence the philosophers of the Gentiles, who
blaspheme against the sovereign Wisdom, because of
the evils and crimes which happen here below. But
yet our religion does not consist in these speculations ;
it is not so much a philosophical system, as a supernat
ural establishment ; Daniel will instruct you in it ; he
is at this time the prophet of THE MOST HIGH.—
The Eternal often shews him futurity as present, and
lends him his power to work prodigies ; he is soon to
return to Babylon ; he will shew you the oracles con
tained in our sacred books, and teach you what are
the purposes for which God intends you." It was in
this manner that the Hebrew philosopher instructed
Cyrus, vainly striving to fathom the unsearchable
depths of divine wisdom. What was defective in his
opinions, was set right by the more simple and sub
lime instructions of Daniel, who came back to Baby
lon a few days after.
39
302 The Travels of Cyrm.
It was the time fixed by the prophets for the recove
ry of Nabuchodonosor ; his frenzy ceased, and hig
reason was restored to him. Before he returned to his
capital, he resolved to pay a public homage to the God
of Israel,, in the same place where he had given the no
torious instance of his impiety. He ordered Daniel
to assemble the princes, magistrates, governors of
provinces, and all the nobles of Babylon, and to con
duct them to the plains of Dura, where he had some
years before erected the famous golden statue. Cloth
ed with his imperial robehemounted upon an eminence,
from whence he might be seen by all the people ; he
had no longer any thing fierce or savage in his look ;
notwithstanding the dreadful condition to which his suf
ferings had reduced him, his countenance had a serene
and majestic air. He turned towards the east, took
off his diadem, prostrated himself with his face to the
earth, and pronounced three times the tremendous
name of Jehovah ! Having adored the Eternal for
some time in profound silence, he rose up and said :
" People of all nations assembled together, it was
here that you formerly beheld the extravagant marks
of my impious and abominable pride : it was here that
I usurped the rights of the Divinity, and would force
you to worship the work of men's hands; The Most
High, to punish this excess of irreligion, condemned
me to eat grass with the beasts for seven whole years ;
the times are accomplished ; I have lifted up my eyes
to heaven, and acknowledged the power of the God
of Israel ; my reason and my understanding are restor
ed tome. Your God (continued he, turning towards
Daniel) is in truth the God of Gods, and King of
Kings. All the inhabitants of the earth are before
The Travels of Cyrus. 303
him as nothing, and he does according to his will both
in heaven and in earth ; his wisdom is equal to his pow
er, and all his ways are full of justice. Those that
walk in pride, he is able to abase, and he raises again
those whom he had humbled. O princes and people
learn to render homage to his greatness !" At these
words the assembly sent up shouts of joy, and filled
the air with acclamations in honor of the God of Israel.
Nabuchodonosor was conducted back with pomp to
his capital, and resumed the government of his king
dom. He raised Daniel to the highest dignities and
the Hebrews were honored with the first posts through
out all the provinces of his empire.
Some days after, Amytis presented Cyrus to Nabu
chodonosor, who received the young prince in a most
friendly manner, and gave him a favorable audience.
However, the nobles of Babylon, who sat in the king's
council, represented in strong terms, that it might be
dangerous to provoke the Median Court at the present
juncture, when the forces of the kingdom were much
lessened, and its treasures exhausted by the late trou
bles during the king's illness, and that it would be bet
ter policy to foment the divisions between the Medes
and Persians, in order, to make them mutually weaken
each other, and so give the king of Babylon a fair oc
casion of extending his conquests. But Nabuchodo
nosor, who bythe misfortunes he had suffered was cur
ed of all such false maxims, did not go into the ambi
tious projects of his ministers ; and Cyrus observing
his good dispositions; took that opportunity to lay be
fore him the advantages he might find by an alliance
with Cambyses. He made the king sensible that the
Medes were the only rivals of his power in the East
304 The Travels of Cyrus.
that it could not be for his interest to let them grow
more considerable, by subjecting and oppressing the
Persians ; but that he should rather make the latter his
friend, who might serve as a barrier to his empire
against the enterprises of the Median prince ; and last
ly, that Persia lay very convenient for the Babylonian
troops to march through into Media, in case Cyaxa-
res should resolve upon a rupture. The prince of Per
sia spoke both in public and private assemblies with so
much eloquence and strength of reason ; he shewed
during the course of his negociation, which lasted some
months, so much candor and truth ; he managed the
nobles with so much prudence and delicacy, that in the
end he brought them all over. An alliance was sworn
in a solemn manner, and Nabuchodonosor continued
faithful to it the rest of his life.
Cyrus, impatient to see the sacred books of the He
brews, which contained oracles relating to his future
greatness, conversed every day with Daniel ; and the
prophet gladly embraced the opportunity to instruct
him in the Hebrew religion. He at length opened the
books of Isaiah, who had prophesied of Cyrus by
name an hundred and fifty years before his birth, and
the prince read these words—" Thus saith the Lord to
his annointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have hold-
en to subdue nations before him and put kings to flight ;
and I will open before him the two leaved gates, and
the gates shall not be shut. I will go before thee,
I will humble the great ones of the earth, I will break
in pieces the gates of brass, and cut in sunder the bars
of iron ; and I will reveal to thee the hidden treasures,
and the secret of secrets, that thou mayst know that I
the Lord, who have. called thee by thy name, am the
The Travels of Cyrus. 305
God of Israel. For Jacob my servant's sake, and Is
rael mine elect, I have even called thee by thy name, I
have surname'd thee, though thou hast not known me.
I am the Lord, and there is none else, there is no God
besides me. I form the light and create darkness. I
have made the earth and created man upon it ; I, even
my hands, haAe stretched out the heavens, and all their
host have I commanded. I have raised him up in right
eousness, and I will direct all his ways ; he shall build
my city, and he shall let go my captives, not for price
nor reward, saith the Lord of hosts."
Cyrus was struck with awe and reverence, as well as
astonishment, to see so clear and circumstantial a pre
diction, a thing unknown in other nations : for there the
oracles were always obscure and ambiguous. " Elea-
zar (said he to the prophet) has already shewn me, that
the great principles of your theology, concerning the
three states of the world, agree with those of other na
tions. He has removed all my difficulties about the
origin of evil, by proving the freedom of all intelligent
natures ; he shuts the mouth of impiety, by his sublime
ideas concerning the pre-existence of souls, their volun
tary fall, and their total restoration ; but he has said
nothing to me of the supernatural establishment of
your law. I conjure you, by the God whom you adore,
to answer my questions : Has your tradition the same
source with that of other nations 1 Has it been trans
mitted to you by a purer channel ? Was your lawgiver
a mere philosopher, or a divine person ?"
" I know, answered Daniel, the endeavors which
our doctors use to accomodate religion to the taste of
philosophers ; but they are ' bewildered and lost in a
croud of uncertain opinions. Who can find out the
306 The Travels of Cyrus.
ways of God, or penetrate into his secret purposes J
Our thoughts are weak, and our conjectures vain ; the
body, this earthly tabernacle, depresses the soul, and
will not suffer it to reach these heights to which it fond
ly aspires. It is certain that God has permitted evil,
only that he might draw from it an infinite good ; but
how he will accomplish his purpose, is a secret hidden
from the eyes of mortals. All the systems that can be
imagined, are either dangerous or defective. The cu
riosity of seeing into every thing, explaining every thing,
and adjusting it to our imperfect notions, is the most
fatal disease of the human mind. The most sublime
act of our feeble reason, is to keep itself silent before
the sovereign reason ; let us leave to God the care of
justifying one day the incomprehensible ways of his
providence. Our pride and our impatience will not
suffer us to wait for this unravelling ; we would go be
fore the light, and by doing so we lose the use of it.
* Woe unto him tlfat striveth with his Maker, unto him
who is but clay and a potsherd of the earth.' Isaiah
xlv. Forget, therefore, all the refined speculations of
the philosophers ; I shall speak to you a more sure and
simple language ; I shall propose nothing to you, but
such truths as are supported by the universal tradition
of all nations, or else palpable facts, of which the eyes,
ears, and all the senses of men are judges.
'" The Eternal created our first parents in a state of
innocence, happiness, and immortality, but the ambi
tious desire of increasing their knowledge, and of be
ing as gods, carried them to disobey the orders of the
Most High. They were driven from their habitation
of delights, and their whole race was involved in their
punishment, as it had been in their crime ; thus we
The Travels of Cyrus. 307
were degraded in our origin and blasted in our source.
When mankind discontinued to be just, they ceased to
be immortal ; sufferings followed close upon crimes,
and men were condemned to a state of pain and mis
ery in order to make them aspire perpetually afterabet
ter life. For the first ages after the fall, religion was not
written ; the moral part of it was found in reason itself,
and the mysteries of it were transmitted by tradition
from the ancients. As men lived then several ages, it
was easy to preserve that tradition in its purity. But
the sublime knowledge of the first men having served
only to make them the more criminal, the whole race
of mankind, except the family ofNoah, was destroyed,
in order to stop the course of impiety, and the increase
of vice. The fountains of the great abyss were broken
up, and the waters covered the earth with an universal
deluge, of which there yet are some traces in the tradi
tions of all nations ; and of which we see every day
convincing proofs when we dig into the bowels of the
earth. The constitution of the world, which had suf
fered by the fall, was impaired anew ; the juices ofthe
earth were impoverished and spoilt by this inundation ;
the herbs and fruits had no longer the same virtue :
the air, loaded with an excessive moisture, strengthen
ed the principles of corruption, and the life of man
shortened. The descendants of Noah, who spread
themselves over the face ofthctearth, quickly forgot this
terrible effect of the divine indignation ; they corrupted
their ways, and gave themselves up to all wickedness.
It was then that the Eternal resolved to choose a pe
culiar people, to be the despositary of religion, morali
ty and all divine truths, that they might not be debased
and entirely obscured by the imagination, passions and
a08 The Travels of Cyrus.
vain reasonings ofmen. The sovereign Wisdom chose
the most stupid and untractible people to be the guar
dian of his oracles. The Assyrians, Chaldeans and
Egyptians, who were eminent for subtlety of under
standing, and a superior skill in all the sciences, might
have been suspected of having mixed their own notions
and reasonings with the divine revelation ; but the He
brews, among whom you have found the sublimest ideas
ofthe Divinity and of morality, havenothingin their natu
ral genius which can make them suspected of having in
vented these truths. Abraham by his faith and obedi
ence, was found worthy to be the head and the father
of this happy people. The Most High promised him,
that his posterity should be multiplied as the stars of
heaven, that they should one day possess the land of
Canaan, and that of his seed should come the Desire
of nations in the fulness of time. The rising family of
this patriarch, feeble in its beginnings, went down to
Egypt, where they became very numerous, awakened
the jealousy of the Egyptians, and were reduced to a
state of slavery ; but having been tried and purified.,
by all sorts of afflictions, for the space of four hundred
years, God raised Moses' to deliver them.
" The Most High having first inspired our dliverer
with the purest wisdom, lent him his almighty power
to prove his divine mission by the most signal won
ders ; these wonders were nothing less than a frequent
and instantaneous chang-ina: of the order and course of
nature. The haughty king of Egypt refused to obey
the orders of the Almighty. Moses terrified his court
with repeated signs ofthe vengeance of Heaven : he
stretched out his arm, and the whole kingdom felt its
dreadful power ; rivers were turned into blood ;
The Travels of Cyrus. 309
swarms of venomous insects spread diseases and
death ; prodigies, lightnings, with storms of hail, de
stroyed men, beasts and plants ; a thick darkness hid
for three days all the luminaries of heaven ; and an ex
terminating angel destroyed in one night all the first
born of Egypt. At length the people of God left the
land of their captivity, and Pharaoh pursued them with
a formidable army. A pillar of fire was their guide
by night, and a thick cloud by day concealed their
march from the pursuers. Moses spake, the sea divi
ded, the Israelites went through it on dry ground, and
were no sooner passed, than the sea returned to its
strength, and its impetuous waves swallowed up the
infidel nation. Our fathers wandered in the desert,
where they suffered hunger, thirst, and the inclemen
cy of the seasons. They murmured against God ;
Moses spake again, a miraculous flood descended from
heaven ; dry rocks became fountains of living water ;
the earth opened and swallowed up those who refused
to believe the promises, unless they might see their ac
complishment. It was in this desert that God him
selfpublished his holy law, and dictated all the rites
and statutes of our religion. He called up our con
ductor to the top of mount Sinai ; the mountain trem
bled, and the voice of the Eternal, was heard in thun
ders and lightnings. He displayed his dreadful pow
er, to make an impression upon hearts more disposed
to be affected by fear than love. But the God appear
ed no less in the wonders of his goodness, than in those
of his power. The high and lofty One. who inhabits
eternity, and whom the heaven of heavens cannot con
tain, condescended to dwell in a visible manner among
the children of Israel, and to direct them in all their
40
310 The Travels of Cyrus.
ways. A moveable sanctuary, with the ark of the
covenant, was formed and erected by his order, and
(he altar was sanctified by the presence of the glory
of the Most High. The rays of a heavenly light en
compassed the tabernacle ; and God sitting between
the chernbim from thence declared his will. Moses..
by the command ofGod himself, committed to writing
onr law and our history, the everlasting proofs of his
supreme goodness, and of our ingratitude ; a little, be
fore his death he put this book into the hands of all the
people : it was necessary at every instant to consult it,
in order to know not only the religious but civil laws ;
each Hebrew is obliged to read it over once a-year, and
to transcribe the whole at least once in his life. It was
impossible to alter or corrupt these sacred annals,
without the imposture's being discovered and punish
ed as high treason against God, and an attempt against
the civil authority.
"Moses died; our fathers left the desert; nature
was obedient to the voice of Joshua their new con
ductor ; rivers ran back to their fountain-head ; the
sun stood still ; the walls of a strong city fell down at
the approach ofthe ark ; and the most courageous and
warlike nations fled before the triumphant armies ofIs
rael, who at length took possession of the promised
land. Miracles, however, do not change the heart,
eyen when they convince the understanding. The
strongest conviction is too weak to control the violence
ofthe passions. Scarce was this ungrateful and in
constant people settled in that land of delights, but
they grew weary of being under the immediate gov
ernment of Jehovah, and were desirous of having a
king to go before them like other nations. God gave
The Travels of Cyrus. 81 1
them a king in his anger, and the Hebrew, govern
ment became monarchial. Solomon, the wisest and
most pacific ofour princes, erected a magnificent tem
ple at Jerusalem.
" The God of peace fixed his habitation upon mount
Sion ; the miracle of the ark was perpetuated, the
glory of the Divine Majesty filled the sanctuary, and
oracles were given from the most holy place, as often
as the high-priest went thither to enquire of the Lord.
In order to perpetuate the memory of so many mira
cles, and to demonstrate the truth ofthem to all future
ages, Moses, Joshua, our judges and our kings, es
tablished solemn festivals and august ceremonies.—
A numerous nation, incredulous and rebellious, their
kings, their priests, their tribes, which were often di
vided among themselves, concurred loudly, universal
ly, and successively, to give testimony to those mira
cles, by lasting monuments perpetuated from genera
tion to generation. While the Israelites persevered in
their obedience, the Lord of hosts was their protect
or, and rendered them invincible, as he had promised :
but as soon as they had departed from the law oftheir
God, he gave them up a prey to their fierce enemies ;
nevertheless, he chastised them like a father, and did
not utterly forsake them. In every age he raised up
prophets to threaten, instruct, and reform them.
" These sages being separated from all terrestrial
pleasures, united themselves to the sovereign truth ;
the eyes of the soul which have been shut since the or
igin of evil, were opened in these divine men, to look
into the counsels of Providence, and to know its secrets.
The heavy judgments of God fell often upon the stub
born and untractable Hebrews, and as often this cho
312 The Travels of Cyrus.
sen people was brought back by the prophets to own
and adore the God of their fathers. At length thev
were wholly carried away by that wretched inclination
in all mortals to corporalize the Deity, and to form to
themselves a god with passions like their own. The
God of Abraham, faithful in his threatenings as in his
promises, has humbled us for many years, under the
yoke of Nabuchodonosor ; Jerusalem is become deso
late, and the holy temple an heap of stones ; vaga
bonds and captives in a strange land, we wander upon
the banks of the Euphrates, and silently mourn when
we remember Sion. But God having first raised up
that proud conqueror to accomplish his eternal purpo
ses, then abused him in his anger. You have been
witness both of his punishment and of his deliverance ;
nevertheless, the measure of the divine judgments up
on the race of Abraham is not yet filled up ; it is you,
O Cyrus, who are ordained by THE MOST HIGH
to be their deliverer ; Jerusalem will be re-peopled,
the house of the Lord rebuilt, and the glory of the lat
ter temple, which will one day be honored with the
presence of the Messiah, shall be greater than the glo
ry of the former."
"But what, said Cyrus, is the design of this law,
dictated by God himself with so much pomp, preserv
ed by your forefathers with so much care, renewed and
confirmed by your prophets with so many miracles ?
In what does it dilfer from the religion ofother nations ?"
" The design of the law and the prophets, replied
Daniel, is to shew, that all creatures were pure in their
original ; that all men are at present born distempered,
corrupt and ignorant, even to the degree of not know
ing their disease, and that human nature will one day
The Travels of Cyrus. 313
be restored to its perfection. The miracles and prodi
gies, of which I have made you a recital, are, so to
speak, but the play of wisdom to lead men into them
selves, and make them attend to those three truths,
which they will find written in their own hearts, upon
all nature, and in the whole plan of providence. The
law ofMoses is but an unfolding of the law of nature ;
all its moral precepts are but means more or less re
mote, to carry us to what may strengthen divine love in
us, or to preserve us from what may weaken it. The
burnt-offerings, the purification, the abstinences, all the
ceremonies of our worship, are but symbols to repre
sent the sacrifice of the passions, and to shadow out the
virtues necessary tore-establish us in our primitive pu
rity ; those who stop at the letter, find expressions in
our sacred books that seem to humanize the Deity ;
promises that do not appear to have any relation to im
mortality ; and ceremonies, which they think unworthy
ofthe sovereign reason. But the true sage penetrates
into their hidden meaning, and discovers mysteries in
them of the highest wisdom. The foundation of the
whole law, and of all the prophecies, is the doctrine of
a nature pure in its original, corrupted by sin, and to
be one day restored. These three fundamental truths
are represented in our history under various images.
The bondage of the Israelites in Egypt, their journey
through the desert,. and their arrival in the promised
land, represent to us the fall ofsouls, their sufferings in
this mortal life, and their return to their heavenly coun
try. The hidden meaning does not destroy the literal
sense, nor does the letter of the law exclude allegory ;
it is equally profane to deny the one, or to despise the
other. These three principles, the traces of which are
314 The Travels ofCyrus.
to be found in all religions, have been transmitted from
age to age from the deluge to our time ; Noah taught
them to his children ; whose posterity spread them af
terwards over all the earth : but in passing from mouth
to mouth, they have been altered and obscured by the
imagination of the poets, the superstition of the priests,
and the different genius of each nation. We find more
remarkable footsteps of them among the Orientals and
Egyptians, than any where else ; because Abraham our
first patriarch, who was famous in Asia, renewed them
here, and because the people of God were a long time
in captivity on the banks of the Nile. But these ancient
truths have been no where preserved in their perfect
purity, except in the oracles written by our lawgiver,
our historians and our prophets.
" But this is not all ; there is a mystery which is no
where unfolded but in our religion, and of which I would
not speak to you, O Cyrus, if you were not the anoint
ed of THE MOST HIGH, and his servant chosen for
the deliverance of his people. The prophecies mention
two advents ofthe Messiah ; one in suffering, the other
in glory. The GREAT EMANUEL will, many ages
before his triumphant appearance in the clouds, live
here upon earth in a state of humiliation. He will ex
piate sin, by the sacrifice of himself, before he restores
the universe to its primitive splendor. The ancient
tradition from Noah concerning this grand sacrifice,
was what suggested to all nations the first thought of
offering victims to THe Most High, as types of that per
fect holocaust. Your priests having lost these primi
tive ideas, foolishly imagined that the friendship of the
immortals was to be gained by shedding the blood of
beasts : but what relation is there between the divine
The Travels of Cyrus. 315
goodness and a cruel immolation of harmless animals ?
Without our traditions about the great Emanuel, the
original ofyour sacrifices is a perfect enigma."
Here Cyrus interrupted Daniel, and said—" Who is
this great Emanuel of whom you speak? Is he the same
with him whom the Persians call Mythras, the Egyp
tians Orus, the Tyrians Adonis, the Greeks Jupiter, the
Conductor, Apollo and Hercules ? What is his origin,
and what is his nature V " The GREAT EMANUEL,
answered the prophet, is he who is called the DESIRE
OF NATIONS ; he has been known to them by an
ancient tradition, the source of which they are ignorant
of, and which they have degraded by their fabulous
names and impure images. The great Emanuel is not,
as some of your philosophers say, a subordinate god,
but equal in glory to the great Jehovah. He is not a
demi-god, but possesses in himself all the fulness ofthe
Godhead. He is not a free production of the power of
THE MOST HIGH, but a necessary emanation from
his substance. All other beings, how exalted soever,
whether angels or archangels, seraphim or cherubim,
were drawn out of nothing, and may return to nothing
again ; but He is a pure stream flowing from the glo
ry of the Almighty, the brightness of the everlasting
light, the unspotted mirror of the majesty of God, and
the express image of his goodness. He is of the same
essence, he has the same attributes ; but who can de
clare his generation? Let us not rashly pry into those
impenetrable secrets ; it is sufficient to know, that
THE DESIRE OF NATIONS will appear upon
earth to bear our griefs, that he will be wounded for
our transgressions., and bruised for our iniquities."
316 The Travels of Cyrus.
" But what necessity is there cried out Cyras, for this
great sacrifice ? Has God any need of a bloody victim
to appease his wrath 1 Can the infinite goodness re
quire such a cruel holocaust ? Beware of falling into the
same error with which you reproach our priests."
" God has no need, replied Daniel, of an inhuman sac
rifice to pacify his vengeance ; but he would counte
nance the rebellion of spirits, and contradict himself,
should he pardon the criminal without shewing his ab
horrence of the crime, and display the whole extent of
his goodness, without asserting the prerogatives of his
holiness. The divine Emanuel will leave the bosom of
his Father, and remain long upon earth exiled from his
presence ; the living image of the majesty of God will
take on him the form of a servant ; the eternal Word
will become a mute babe, a man of sorrows, and ac
quainted with grief; the brightness of the uncreated
light will suffer an eclipse, that will terrify the seraphim
and cherubim ; he will shew by his annihilation, the
homage that is due to the Eternal ; by his humiliation,
the injustice of our pride ; by his sufferings, the neces
sity of our expiatory pains ; and lastly, by his agony
and the inexpressible anguish which our iniquities will
cause him, the infinite aversion of THE MOST HIGH
to the violation of order. It is by these means that he
will reconcile the justice of God with his mercy, repair
the wrong done to his laws, and be at the same time
both a sacrifice for sin and a model of all virtue. The
history of his conflicts and triumphs will be forever re>-
corded in the registers of heaven, and give eternal tes
timony to the divine wisdom, goodness and justice. I
sec from afar that day which will be the consolation of
the just and the joy of angels. All {he heavenly powers
The Travels of Cyrus. 317
will be present at this mystery, and adore its depth ;
mortals will see nothing but the shell and the outside.
Those Hebrews who expect only a triumphant Messiah
will not comprehend this first advent ; the pretenders
to wisdom in all nations, who judge only by appear
ance, will blaspheme against what they understand
not. Nay, the most just among men will in this life
see only as in a mystery, the beauty, extent and neces
sity of that great sacrifice."
The prince of Persia was struck by this discourse,
and wavered in his thoughts ; he perceived that all the
discoveries made by Zoroaster, Hermes, Orpheus and
Pythagoras, were but imperfect traces, and chance-
rays of the tradition from Noah. In Persia, Egypt,
Greece, and in all other nations, he had found only ob
scure, uncertain and loose opinions ; but with the He
brews he had found books, prophecies and miracles, the
authority of which was incontestible. Nevertheless,
he saw the truth only as through a cloud, his heart was
not yet touched ; he waited for the accomplishment of
Isaiah's prediction. Daniel was not ignorant of the
fluctuation of his mind, and said to him : " O Cyrus,
religion is not a system of philosophical opinions, nor
yet a history of miracles, or supernatural events, but
a science that dilates the heart, and fills it with god
like sentiments, a science which god reveals only to
pure minds ; to know the secrets of religion, to feel its
energy,, a superior power to man must descend into you,
become absolute master of you, and ravish you from
vourself. Your heart will then feel those truths which
your understanding has now but a small glimpse of.—
The time for this is not yet come, but it approaches ;
until that happy moment, be content with knowing that
the God of Israel loves you, will go before you, and
41
318 The Travels of Cyrus.
will accomplish his will by you. This accomplishment
will be an invincible proof of the truth of all I have
said to you. Make haste to verify hisoraclesand return
with speed into Persia, where your presence is neces
sary."
The young hero soon after left Babylon ; the year
following, Nabuchodonosor died, and his successors
broke the alliance sworn between the Assyrians and
Persians. Cyrus spent twenty whole years in. war
with the Assyrians and their allies. The several na
tions of the East, observing his moderation in the midst
of triumphs, willingly submitted to his empire, and
the conquests made by his humanity were more nume
rous than those of his sword. Being ever as generous
as invincible, he made no other use of victory than to
render the vanquished happy, and employed his pow
er only to make justice flourish, and to establish and
maintain the most excellent laws. The taking of Bab
ylon made him master of all the East, from the river
Indus to Greece, and from the Caspian Sea to the ex
tremities of Egypt. Seeing then the entire accomplish
ment of Isaiah's prediction, his heart became affected
with the truths he had learned from Daniel ; the mist
before his eyes was totally dispelled, he openly avow
ed the God of Israel, and released the Hebrews from
their captivity by this solemn edict, which was publish
ed throughout the whole extent of his vast dominions.
Thus saith Cyrus, king of Persia : The Lord God of
heaven hath given me all the kingdoms ofthe earth, and
he hath charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem,
which is in Judea. Whoever among you is ofhis peo
ple, his God be witli him. And let him go tip to Jeru
salem, and build the house ofthe Lord God ofIsrael, he
iuheGOD.
DISCOURSE
UPON THE
THEOLOGY AND MYTHOLOGY
OF THE
PAGANS.
MY first design was to insert some critical notes
in the margin of the forgoing books, but as the attend
ing to such remarks would have diverted the reader's
mind too much from the principal subject, I thought it
better to digest them into the form ofa discourse, which
I divide into two parts. In the first I shall shew, that
the most celebrated philosophers of all ages, and all
countries, have had the notion of a supreme Deity,
who produced the world by his power, and governs it
by bis wisdom. From the second it will appear, that
there are traces of the principal doctrines of revealed
religion, with regard to the three states of the world,
to be found in the Mythology of all nations.
PART I.
OF THE THEOLOGY OF THE PAGANS.
TO begin with the magi, or Persian philosophers.
According to the testimony of Herodotus,* the ancient
Persians had neither statues, nor temples, nor altars:
*' They think it ridiculous (says this author) to fancy
like the Greeks, that the gods have a human .shape, or
derive their original from men. They choose the high
est mountains for the place of their sacrifice. They
use neither libations, nor music, nor hallowed bread ;
but when any one has a mind to sacrifice, he leads the
victim into a clean place, and weaving a wreath of myr
tle about his tiara, invokes the god to whom he intends
to offer it. The priest is not allowed to pray for his
own private good, but for that of the nation in general ;
each particular member finding his benefit in the pros
perity ofthe whole."
Strabo'i* gives the same account of the ancient Per
sians. "Theyneither erected statues nor altars, says this
historian : they sacrificed in a clean place, and upon
an eminence, where they offered up a victim crowned.
When the priest had cut it into small pieces, every one
took his share. They left no portion of it for the deN
ties, saying, that God desires nothing but the soul ofthe
victim." The orientals, full ofthe notion oftransmigra
tion imagined that the victim was animated by acrim-
* Herod. Clio. lib. l,p. 56, Sect. 131, Edit. Francof. 1608.
t Strabo, lib. 15, p. 732, Edit. Paris, 1620.
Ofthe Theology $c. 321
ipal soul, whose expiatory pains were completed by the
sacrifice.
The Persians indeed, as well as other Pagans, wor
shipped the fire, the sun, and the stars. But we shall
see that they considered them only as visible images,
and symbols ofa supreme God, whom they believed to
be the sovereign Lord of nature. Plutarch has left us,
in his treatise ofIsis and Osiris, a fragment of the theol
ogy of the magi. This philosophical historian assures
us that they called the great God Oromazes, or the
principle oflight, that produced every thing, and work-
eth all in all.* They admitted however another god,
but of an inferior nature and order, whom they called
Mythras, or the middle god. They speak of him some
times as a being co-eternal with the supreme Divinity,
and at other times as the the first production of his
power.i'
The finest definition we have of the Deity among all
the writings of the ancients, is that of Zoroaster. It
has been transmitted down to us by Eusebius in his
Praparatio Evangelica ; an author so far from being
over favorable to the Pagans, that he makes it his bus
iness continually to expose and degrade their philoso
phy. And yet he says, that he had read these express
words in a book of Zoroaster that was extant in his
time, and known by the title of the sacred collection of
Persian monuments.
X " God is the first ofall incorruptible beings, eter
nal and unbegotten. He is not compounded of parts,
'* Plut. de Isid. et Osir. edit. Paris, 1624, p. 370.
- t See Cudvvorth's Intel). System, p. 288.
t Euseb. Prsep. Evang. lib. 1, p. 42, edit. Paris.
322 Ofthe Theology
There is nothing equal to him, or like him. He is the
author of all good, and entirely disinterested ; the
most excellent of all excellent beings, and the wisest
of all intelligent natures ; the father of equity, the pa
rent of good laws, self-instructed, self-sufficient, and
the first former of nature."
The modern writers among the Arabians and Per
sians, who have preserved to us what remains of tile
ancient doctrine of Zoroaster among the Guebri or
worshippers of fire, maintain, that the first magi ad
mitted only one eternal principle of all things. Abul-
sedi, cited by the famous Dr. Pocock, says, that ac
cording to the primitive doctrine of the Persians,*
" God was prior to both light and darkness, and had
existed from all eternity in an adorable solitude, with
out any companion or rival." Saristhani, quoted by
Dr. Hyde, says, " That the first magrt did not look
upon the good and evil principles as co-eternal ; they
thought that light was indeed eternal, but that dark
ness was produced in time by the disloyalty of Ahri-
man, chief of the genii."
M. Bayle affirms in his dictionary, that the ancient
Persians were all Manicheans ; but however he came
to entertain this notion, he must certainly have given it
up if he had consulted the original authors ; a method
which that famous critic did not always take. He had
a genius capable of going to the bottom of any sub
ject whatever ; but he wrote sometimes in a hurry, and
treated superficially the gravest and most important
subjects. Besides, there is no clearing him from the
charge of loving too much the dismal obscurity of
•Pocock, Specim. Hist. Arab. p. 146.
t Hyde Relig. Ant. Persar.cap. 9. p. 16 Land cap. 2. p. 290.
Of the Pagans. 323
sceptiscism ; he is ever upon his guard against all sat
isfactory ideas in religion ; he shews with art and subt
lety all the dark sides of a question, but he very rarely
represents it in that point of light which shines with
evidence. What encomiums would he not have mer
ited, had he employed his admirable talents more for
the benefit of mankind ?
Such was the theology of the ancient Persians,
which m the foregoing work I have put in the mouth
of Zoroaster; and the Egyptians had much the same
principles. There is nothing more absurd than the
notion generally given u$ of their theology ; nor is any
thing more improbable than the allegorical sense which
certain authors fancy they have discovered in their hie
roglyphics. On one hand, it is hard to believe that
human nature could ever sink so low as to adore insects,
reptiles and plants (which they see produced, growing
and dying every day) without ascribing certain divine
virtues to them, or considering them as symbols of
some invisible power. In the most barbarous coun
tries, we still find some knowledge of a superior being,
which is the object of the hope and fear of the most
stupid savages. But though we should suppose there
are some nations in the world sunk into so gross an ig
norance, as to have no notion of a Deity, yet it is cer
tain that Egypt cannot be charged with such a degree
of stupidity. All historians, as well sacred as profane,
agree in speaking of this people as the wisest of all
nations; and one of the encomiums that the Holy Spir
it gives to Moses is, that he was learned in all the wis
dom of the Egyptians. Would the H*ly Ghost ever
have spoken in such a manner of a nation so senseless
as to worship onions, crocodiles, and the most despi
324 ' Of the Theology
cable reptiles' On the other hand, there are certain
modern writers who exalt the theology of the Egyp
tians too high, and fancy that they find in their hiero
glyphics all the mysteries of the Christian religion.—
After the deluge, Noah doubtless would not leave his
children ignorant of the great principles of religion,
with regard to the three states of mankind ; and that
tradition might have been spread from generation to
generation over all the nations of the world. x$ut we
should not infer from thence, that the Heathens had
as clear notions of the divine nature and the Messias
as the Jews had themselves. Such a supposition, far
from doing honor to holy writ, would only derogate
from its dignity. J shall endeavor to keep the just me
dium between these two extremes.
Plutarch, in his treatise of Isis and Osiris, tells us,*
that the theology of the Egyptians had two meanings;
the one holy and symbolical, the other vulgar and lite
ral ; and consequently that the figures of animals which
they had in their temples, and which they seemed to
adore, were only so many hieroglyphics to represent
the divine attributes. Pursuant to this distinction, he
says that Osiris signifies the active principle, or the
most holy Being ;i* Isis the wisdom or rule of his opera
tion ; Orus the first production of his power, the model
or plan by which he produced every thing, or the arch
etype of the world. We shall see hereafter whether it
be reasonable to think, that the Pagans had ever any
knowledge of a trinity ofdistinct persons in the indivisi
ble unity of the divine nature. This much at least is
plain, that the Chaldeans and Egyptians believed all
* Plut. de Isid. & Osir. p. 354.
t Ibid. p. 373,374, 375.
Of the Pagans. 325
the attributes of the Deity might be reduced to three,
power, understanding and love. In reality, whenever
we disengage ourselves from matter, impose silence on
the senses and imagination, and raise our thoughts to
the contemplation of the infinitely infinite Being, we
find that the eternal essence presents itself to our mind
under the three forms of power, wisdom and goodness.
These three attributes comprehend the totality of his
nature, and whatever we can conceive of him. Not to
speak therefore of the primitive traditions, which might
possibly be the source of these three ideas concerning
the divine nature, it is nothing extraordinary ifthe Egyp
tians and Orientals, who had very refining metaphysi
cal heads, should of themselves have discovered them.
The Greeks and Romans were fonder of the sciences
which depend on sense and imagination ; and for this
reason we find their mythology seldom turns upon any
thing, but the external operatons of the Deity in the
productions ofnature, whereas that of the former chief
ly regards his internal operations and attributes.
By the help of these principles, the theology of the
Pagans may be reduced to three principal divinities,
without doing violence to original authors, and without
racking one's brain to digest their ideas, which are often
very confused, into an intelligible system. They uni
versally aeknowledged one supreme God, whom they
considered as the source of the Divinity, and the author
of all beings ; a goddess his wife, daughter, or sister,
whom they represented sometimes as the principle of
the divine fecundity, at other times as an emanation
from his wisdom, and often as the companion and sub
ject of his operations ; and lastly, a subordinate god,
the son and viceroy of the Supreme. And thus we find
42
326 Of the Tlieology
among the Persians the great Oromazes, the goddess
Mythra, and the god Mythras ; among the Egyptians,
Osiris, Isisand Orus ; among the Greeks, Jupiter, Mi
nerva and Apollo.
In proportion as men departed from their primitive
simplicity, and as imagination took the place of reason,
the poets multiplied the names and images ofthese gods,
and the three superior divinities were lost in a crowd of
inferior deities. It is nevertheless certain, that the phi
losophers always preserved those three capital ideas.
Socrates, Plato, Pythagoras, Porphyry, Jamblichus,
Plutarch, Macrobius, and all the philosophical writers
whose works have been transmitted to us, and who
speak ofthe gods of Egypt and Greece, assure us that
Ptha, Amoun, Osiris, Apis, Serapis, and Anubis, are
the same ; that Mars, Mercury, Apollo, Hercules, and
Jupiter the conductor, are also the same ; that Cybele,
Venus, Urania, Juno, Minerva, Phebe, and proserpine,
are in like manner one and the same. Whence we
may fairly conclude, without fallinginto chimerical con
jectures, that Oromazes, Osiris, Caelus, Saturn, and
Jupiter Olympius, are different names to express the
one supreme God ; that Mythra, Isis, Cybele, Urania,
Juno and Minerva, denote the different attributes ofthe
same goddess ; and lastly, that Mythras, Orus, Mercu
ry, Apollo, Hercules, and Jupiter the conductor, are
the several titles of the middle god, universally acknow
ledged by the Pagans.
I know that the modern Materilalists have endeav
ored to reduce all the Pagan divinities to one god and
one goddess, which according to them, express only
the two principles of nature, whereof one is active, or
the infinite force, the cause of all the motions we behold
Of the Pagans. 827
in the universe ; the other passive, or the eternal matter,
which is the subject of all the forms produced by that
moving force. This idea is by far posterior to that of
the Orientals, Egyptians, and the first Greeks, concern
ing the three forms of the divinity. It was neither re
ceived nor known in the sense of the Materialists, but
by the disciples of Epicurus, as we shall see hereafter.
This distinction of the gods into three classes, and
that of the world into three states, may be of great ser
vice to clear up the confusion of the ancient mytholo
gies. I will venture to say, that neither Scaliger, nor
Bochart, nor Grevius, nor Gronovius, nor M. Huet,
could succeed in this enterprise, because they were
men of more learning than philosophy. Grammarians,
critics, and those persons of strong memories, who em
ploy themselves wholly in the study of words and facts,
are rarely remarkable for a nice examination of princi
ples, and are not always capable of entering into the
sense of the philosophers, or distinguishing the subtilty
of their ideas. I confess indeed, that it is dangerous to
be too much attached to systems, but yet without a sys
tematical genius it is impossible to carry the sciences to
any great perfection.
To return to Plutareh. He concludes his treatise of
Isis and Osiris in this manner : " As he who reads the
works of Plato may be said to read Plato, and he who
acts the comedy of Menander may be said to act
Menander ; so the ancients gave the name of gods to
the various productions of the Deity." Plutarch had
said a little before, " That care should betaken not
to transform, dissolve and scatter the divine nature
into rivers, winds, vegetables, or bodily forms and
motions. This would be as ridiculous as to imag
ine, that the sails, the cables, the rigging and the an
328 Ofthe Theology
chor are the pilot ; or that the thread, the woof and
shuttle, are the weaver. Such senseless notions are an
indignity to the heavenly powers, whom they blas
pheme, whilst they give the name of gods to beings of
an insensible, inanimate and corruptible nature."—
" Nothing, as he goes on, that is without a soul, no
thing that is material and to be perceived by our sen
ses, can be God. Nor yet must \ve imagine that there
are different gods, according to the different countries
of the Greeks and Barbarians, northern and southern
people. As the sun is common to all the world,
though called by different names in different places ;
so there is but one sole supreme Mind or Reason and
one and the same Providence that governs the world,
though he is worshipped under different names, and has
appointed some inferior powers for his ministers."—
Suchj according to Plutarch, was the doctrine of the
first Egyptians with regard to the divine nature.
Origin, who was contemporary with Plutarch, fol
lows the same principles in his book against Celsus, a
Pagan philosopher, who pretended to understand Chris
tianity, because he understood some ceremonies of
that religion, though he had never entered into the
spirit of it. Now Origin expresses himself in this
manner : " The Egyptian philosophers have sublime
notions with regard to the divine nature, which they
keep secret, and never discover to the people but un
der a veil of fables and allegories. Celsus is like a
man who has traveled into that country; and though
he has conversed with none but the ignorant vulgar,
yet takes it into his head that he understands the
Egyptian religion. All the eastern nations, the Per
sians, the indions, the Syrians, conceal secret myste
Of the Pagans. 329
vies under their religious fables. The wise men ofall
those religions see into the sense and true meaning of
them, whilst the vulgar go no father than the exterior
symbol, and see only the bark that covers them."
Let us next hear the testimony of Jambliehus, who
had studied the religion of the Egyptians, and under
stood it thoroughly. He lived in the beginning of the
third century, and was a disciple of the famous Por
phyry. As both St. Clement, and St. Cyril of Alex
andria, assure us, there were at that time a great many
Egyptian books extant, which have been since lost ;
several of these were highly respected for their anti
quity, and ascribed to Hemes Trismegistus, or one of
his first disciples. Jambliehus had read these books,
which had been translated by the Greeks ; and this is
the account that he gives of the theology which they
taught. " According to the Egyptians, Eiction, or the
first God, existed in his solitary unity before all be
ings. He is the fountain and original of every thing
that either has understanding, or is to be understood.—
He is the first principle of all things, self-sufficient, in
comprehensible, and the father of all essences." Her
mes says likewise, " That this supreme God has con
stituted another God, called Enaeph, to be head over
all spirits, whether ethereal, empyrean, or celestial ;
and that this second god, whom he styles the guide, is
a wisdom that transforms and converts into itself all
spiritual beings. He makes nothing superior to this
god-guide, but only the first intelligent, and first intelli
gible, who ought to be adored in silence." He adds,
" That the Spirit which produceth all things, has dif
ferent names, according to his different properties and
operations ; that he is called in the Egyptian language
380 Of the Tfieolvgy
Amoun, as he is wise ; Ptha, as he is the life of all
things ; and Osiris, as he is the author of all good.'*—
Thus, according to Jamblichus, it is evident that the
Egyptians admitted only one principle, and a middle
god, like the Mythras of the Persians.
The notion of a spirit constituted by the supreme
God to be the head and guide of all spirits, is very an
cient. The Hebrew doctors believed that the soul of
the Messias was created from the beginning of the
world, and appointed to preside, over all the orders of
intelligences. This opinion #as founded on a notion,
that finite natures cannot incessantly contemplate the
brightness and glories of the divine essence ; and
must necessarily sometimes turn off their view and
adore the Creator in his works ; that at such times
there must be an head to lead spirits through all the
regions of immensity, and shew them all its beauties
and wonders.
To have a more perfect knowledge of the theology
of the Orientals and Egyptians, it may not be improper
to examine that of the Greeks and Romans, which is
derived originally from it. The philosophers of
Greece went to study wisdom in Asia and Egypt.—
Thales, Pythagoras, Plato, drew the best of their
knowledge from thence. The traces of the Oriental
tradition are now indeed in a manner worn out ; but
as there are several monuments of the theology of the
Greeks still preserved, we may judge ofthe masters by
their disciples.
We must however distinguish between the gods of
the poets and those ofthe philosophers. Poetry deifies
all the various parts of nature, and gives spirit to bod
Of the Pagans. 381
les, as well as body to spirits. It expresses the opera
tions and properties of matter by the actions and pas
sions of such invisible powers, as the Pagans supposed
to be directors of all the motions and events that we
see in the universe. The poets pass in a moment from
allegory to the literal sense, and from the literal sense
to allegory ; from real gods to fabulous deities ; and
this occasions thatjumble of their images, that absurd
ity in their fictions, and that indecorum in their expres
sions, which are so justly condemned by the philoso
phers. Notwithstanding this multiplication of inferior
deities, these poets however acknowledge, that there
was but one only supreme God. This will appear
from the very ancient traditions which we still have of
the philosophy of Orpheus. I am far from thinking
that Orpheus was the author of those works which go
under his name. I believe with the famous Grotius,
that those books were wrote by the Pythagoreans, who
.professed themselves disciples of Orpheus. But who
ever were the authors of these writings, it is certain
that they are older than Horodotus and Plato, and
were in great esteem among the heathens ; so that by
the fragments of them still preserved, we may form a
judgment of the ancient theology of the Greeks. I
shall begin with the abridgment which Timotheus the
cosmographer gives us of the doctrine of Orpheus.—
This abridgment is preserved in Suidas, Cedrenus, and
Eusebius.
" There is one unknown Being exalted above and
prior to all beings, the author of all things, even of
the aether, and of every thing that is below the aether.
This exalted being is life, light and wisdom ; which
three names express only one and the same power,
332 Of the Theology
which drew all beings, visible and invisible, out of
nothing." It appears by this passage, that the doc
trine of the creation, (or the production of substances)
and that of the three forms of the Divinity, were not
unknown to the heathen philosophers. We shall soon
find them in Plato.
Proclus has transmitted down to us this extraordina
ry passage of the theology of Orpheus.* " The uni
verse was produced by Jupiter ; the empyreum, the
deep Tartarus, the earth and the ocean, the immortal
gods and goddesses ; all that is, all that has been, and
all that shall be, was contained originally in the fruit
ful bosom of Jupiter. Jupiter is the first and the last,
the beginning and the end. All beings derive their
origin from him. He is the primitive Father and the
immortal Virgin. He is the life, the cause, and the
energy of all tilings. There is but one only power, one
only God, and one sole universal king of all." This
passage seems to insinuate, that the universe is a sub
stantial emanation of the divine essence, and not a
mere effect of his power ; however, this gross error is
no proof of atheism in him who maintains it, as we
shall see hereafter.
I shall conclude the theology of Orpheus with a
famous passage of the author of the Argonautica, who
is looked upon to be a disciple of his/f* " We will
sing first an hymn upon the ancient chaos ; how the
heaven, the sea and the earth were formed out of it.
We will sing likewise that eternal, wise, and self-per
fect love, which reduced this chaos to order." It is
* Proclus de Timaeo, p. 25.
t Argon, apud. Steph. j>. 71. Edit. Fugger. An. ! 56ft.
Ofthe Pagans. 333
clear enough, from the doctrine of the theogony or
birth of the gods, that the ancient poets ascribed all
to a first being, who disentangled the chaos. And it
is for this reason that Ovid thus expresses himself in
the first book of his Metamorphoses. " Before there
was a sea and an earth, before there was any heaven
to cover the world, universal nature was but one indi
gested sluggish mass, called a chaos. The seeds of
all things jumbled together were in a perpetual dis
cord, till a benificent Deity put an end to the differ
ence." Words which shew plainly that the Latin po
et, who followed the Greek tradition, makes a distinc
tion between the chaos and God, who by his wisdom
brought it out of confusion into order. I ought how
ever in this place to observe, that the Greek and Ro
man mythology, in relation to the chaos, is much more
imperfect than that of the Orientals and Egyptians,
who tell us that there was an happy and perfect state
of the world prior to the chaos : that the good princi
ple could never produce any thing evil : that his first
work could not be confusion and disorder ; and in a
word, that physical evil is nothing else but a conse
quence of moral evil. It was the imagination of the
Greek poets that first brought forth the monstrous Man-
ichean doctrine of two co-eternal principle ; a su
preme intelligence and a blind matter ; light and dark
ness ; an undigested chaos, and a Deity to reduce it
into order.
Let any one read Homer and Virgil with a proper
attenton, and he will see, that notwithstanding the
wild flights of their imagination, and the indecent al
legories, by which they sometimes dishonor the di
vine nature, the marvellous which runs through their
43
334 Ofthe Theology
fable is founded upon these three principles. I. That
there is one supreme God, whom they every where call
the Father, and the sovereign Lord of gods and men,
the Architect of the world, the prince and governor
of the universe, the first God, and the great God. 2.
That universal nature is full of subordinate spirits, who
are the ministers of that supreme God. 3. That good
and evil, virtue and vice, knowledge and error, arise
from the different influence and inspiration of the good
and evil genii, who dwell in the air, the sea, the earth
and the heavens.
The tragic and lyric poets express themselves after
the same manner as the epic poets. Euripides express
ly acknowledges the dependence of all beings upon
one sole principle. " O Father, and king of gods and
men ! says he, why do we miserable mortals fancy
that we know any thing or can do any thing ? Our fate
depends upon thy will."
Sophocles represents the Deity to us as a sovereign
intelligence, which is truth, .wisdom, and the eternal
law of all spirits. It is not, says he, to any mortal na
ture that laws owe their origin ; they come from above ;
they come down from heaven itself; Jupiter Olympius
is alone the father of them.
Plautus introduced an inferior deity speaking in this
manner r " I am a citizen of the celestial city, ofwhich
Jupiter, the father of gods and men, is the head. He
commands the nations, and sends us over all kingdoms,
to take an account of the conduct and actions, the pie
ty and virtue of men. In vain do mortals endeavor
to bribe him with their oblations and sacrifices. They
lose their pains, for he abhors the worship of the im
pious."
Of the Pagans. 335
" O muse, says Horace. Pursuant to the custom of
our ancestors, celebrate first the great Jove, who rules
over gods and men, the earth, the seas, and the whole
universe. There is nothing greater than he, nothing
that is like, nothing that is equal to him !"
I shall conclude my quotations from the poets with
a surprising passage of Lucan. When Cato, after
crossing the deserts of Lybia, arrives at the temple of
Jupiter Ammon, Labienus is for persuading him to
consult the oracle. Upon which occasion the poet
puts this answer in the mouth of that philosophical
hero : " Why do you, Labienus, propose to me to ask
the oracle whether we should choose to die in a state of
freedom with our swords in our hands, rather than see
tyranny enslave our country ? Whether this mortal life
be only a remora to a more lasting one 1 Whether vi
olence can hurt a good man ? Whether virtue does not
make us superior to misfortune 1 And whether true
glory depends upon suecess ? We know these things
already, and the oracle cannot give us clearer answers
than what God makes us feel every moment in the bot
tom of our heart. We are all united to the Deity.—
He has no need of words to convey his ideas to us ; and
he told us at our birth every thing that we have occa
sion to know. He hath not chosen the parched sands
of Lybia to bury truth in those deserts, that it might
be understood only by a small number. He makes
himself known to all the world, he fills all places, the
earth, the sea, the air, the heavens ; he makes his
particular abode in the soul of the just. Why then
should we seek him elsewhere?" fn the foregoing pas
sage I have omitted this expression, Jupiter est quod-
cunque tides; not only because in some manuscripts
836 Ofthe Theology
we read Jupiter est quocunque vides, but also because
the poets, by the word guodcunque, confound the vis
ible worlds with the ethereal matter, which the Stoics
and Orientals considered as the body of the Divinity.
However, he represents Cato as acknowledging a
sovereign intelligence, which is all that I would prove.
Let us pass from the poets to the philosophers, and
begin with Thales the Milesian, chief of the Ionic
school, who lived about six hundred years before the
birth of Christ. We have none of his works now left;
but we have some of his maxims, which have been
transmitted down to us by the most venerable writers
. of antiquity. " God is the most ancient of all beings ;
1 e is the author of the universe, which is full of won
ders ; he is the mind which brought the chaos out of
confusion into order ; he is without beginning and with
out ending, and nothing is hid from him ; nothing
can resist the force of fate ; but this fate is nothing but
the immutable reason and eternal powerof Providence.''
What is still more surprising in Thales, is his defini-
. tion of the soul. He calls it " a self-moving principle,
thereby to distinguish it from matter."
Pythagoras is the second great philosopher after
Thales, and chief of the Italic school. Every body
knows the abstinence, silence, retirement, and great
purity of morals which he required of his disciples.
He was very sensible that the human understanding alone
could never attain to the knowledge of divine things,
CD O *
unless the heart was purged of its passion. Now these
are the notions which he has left us ofthe Deity. " God
is neither the object of sense, nor subject to passion ;
but invisible, purely intelligible, and supremely intelli
gent. In his body he is like the light, and in his soul
Of the Pagans. 337
he resembles truth. He is the universal spirit that per
vades and diffuses itself over all nature. All beings
receive their life from him. There is but one only God,
who is not, as some are apt to imagine, seated above
the world, beyond the orb of the universe ; but being
all in himself, he sees all the beings that inhabit his im
mensity. He is the sole principle, the light of heaven,
the father of all ; he produces every thing, he orders
and disposes every thing ; he is the reason, the life, and
the motion of all beings."
He taught, that besides the first principle, there were
three sorts of intelligent beings, gods, heroes and souls.
He considered the first as the unalterable images of the
sovereign mind, human souls as the least perfect of
reasonable substances, and heroes as a sort of middle
beings placed between the two others, in order to raise
up souls to the divine union. Thus he represents to us
the divine immensity, as containing innumerable worlds
inhabited by spirits ofdifferent orders. And this is the
true sense of that famous expression ascribed to the Py
thagoreans, that unity was the principle of all things,
and that from this union there sprung an infinite dual
ity. We are not by this duality to understand the two
principles of the Manichees, but, as some think, the se
cond and third forms of the Orphean trinity and tri
form deity, or rather a world ofintelligent and corpore
al substances, which is the effect, whereof unity is the
cause. This is the sentiment ofPorphyry, and it ought
to be preferred before that of Plutarch, who is for as
cribing the Manichean system to Pythagoras, without
producing for it any proof.
Pythagoras agreed with Thales, in defining' the ?ouI
to be a self-moving principle. He maintained, " Ti.it
838 Of the Theology
when it quits the body, is is re-united to the soul of the
world ; that it is not a god, but the work of an eternal
God ; and that it is immortal on-account of its princi
ple." This philosopher was of opinion that man was
composed of three parts, a pure spirit, an ethereal mat
ter (which he called the subtle vehicle of the soul)
and a mortal or gross body. The old Greek poets had
dressed up this opinion in a different guise ; they call
ed the ethereal body the representation, the image, or
the shadow ; because they fancied that this subtle bo
dy, when it came down from heaven to animate the ter
restrial body, assumed its form, just as melted metal
takes that of the mould in which it is cast. They said,
that after death the spirit, still clothed with this subtle
vehicle, flew up to the regions of the moon, where they
placed the Elysian fields ; and there, as they imagined,
a sort of second death ensued by the separation of the
pure spirit from its vehicle. The one was united to the
gods, the other stayed in the abode of the shades. This
is the reason why Ulysses says in the Odysseis, " That
he saw in the Elyssian fields the divine Hercules, i. e.
his image ; for as for him, he is with the immortal gods,
and assists at the banquets." Pythagoras did not adopt
the poetic fiction of a second death. He held, that the
pure spirit and its subtle vehicle being born together,
were inseparable, and returned after death to the star
from whence they descended. The platonists, and al
most att-the ancient philosophers, had the same notion.
St. Paul, speaking^of the resurrection, seems to favor
this dictinction of the celestial and the terrestrial body :
" But some man will say, How. are the dead raised up?
and with what body do they come ? Thou fool, that
which thou sowest is not that body which shall be, but
Of the Pagans. 339
bare grain. So also is the resurrection of the dead ; it
is sown in curruption, it is raised in incorruption ; it is
sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory ; it is sown a nat
ural body, it is raised a spiritual body.—Now this I
say, brethren, because that flesh and blood cannot in
herit the kingdom of God."
Hence it is., that some of the ancient fathers, as well
as our modern divines, have concluded, that the mor
tal and terrestrial body which is ever changing, and
does not continue one moment the same, is something
merely accidental to our substance, and does not origin
ally belong to it; a thick crust, a coarse covering cast ov
er the celestial, spiritual, active and glorious body, which
being unveiled and enlarged at the resurrection, will ap
pear in all its beauty ; that this immortal seedrthis incor
ruptible body, this hidden principle, which is, perhaps,
at present the seat of the sool, will, for reasons knovvi,
to God only, remain buried after death in the common
mass of matter, till the last manifestation of the divine
power ; and that then the face of the earth will be re
newed by purifying flames, which will purge our globe
of all that dark and earthly dross which it has con
tracted. And this notion renders the doctrine ofthe
resurrection intelligible and philosophical.
I shall conclude the article of Pythagoras with a
summary of his doctrine, as it is given us by St. Cyril.
" We see plainly, says this father, that Pythagoras
maintained, that there was but one God, the original
and cause of all things, who enlightens every thing, and
from whom every thing proceeds, who has given being
to all things, and is the source ofall motion."
After Pythagoras comes Anaxagoras, of the Ionic
sect, born at Clazomene, and master to Pericles, the
340 Of the Theology
Athenian hero. This philosopher was the first after
Thales in the Ionic school who perceived the necesity
of introducing a supreme Intelligence for the formation
of the universe. He rejected with contempt, and with
great strength of reason refuted the doctrine of those
who held, that a blind necessity, and the casual mo
tions of matter, had produced the world. He endeav
ored to prove, that a pure and uncompounded Spirit
presides over the universe.
According to Aristotle's account, the reasoning of
Anaxagoras was founded upon these two principles.
1. " That the idea of matter not including that of act
ive force, motion could not be one of its properties.—
We must therefore, said he, seek somewhere else to
find out the cause of its activity. Now this active
principle, as it was the cause of motion, he called the
soul, because it animates the universe. 2. He distin
guished between this universal principle of motion,
and the thinking principle, which last he called the
understanding. He saw nothing in matter that had
any resemblance to this property ; and from thence he
inferred, that there was in nature another substance
besides matter. But he added, that the soul and spir
it were one and the same substance distinguished by
us only in regard of its different operations ; and that
of all essences it was the most simple, the most pure,
and the most exempt from all mixture and composition."
This philosopher passed at Athens for an Atheist, be
cause he denied that the stars and planets were gods.—
He maintained that the first were suns, and the latter
habitable worlds ; so very ancient is the system of a
plurality of worlds, which have been generally thought
to. be modern.
Of the Pagans. 341
Plato condemns Anaxagoras for having explained
all the phenomena of nature by matter and motion.—
Descartes has only revived this opinion. I cannot but
think it very unjust to accuse the philosopher of Cla-
zomene, or his follower, of Atheism, on this account,
since they both lay it down for a principle, that motion
is not a property of matter, and consequently, that
the moving force is altogether spiritual. It must nev
ertheless be allowed, that the French philosopher is
blameable, in supposing that the visible world is the
necessary and unavoidable effect of a mere impulsion
given to an indefinite matter. Hence it would follow,
1. That the laws of motion are not arbitrary and de
pendent on a sovereign Intelligence, who acts with
wisdom and design ; which totally destroys the idea
of final causes. 2. That the world such as we see it,
with all its irregularities, defects and disorders, is
precisely in the same state wherein it was at first pro
duced by the Creator. These two principles were
the fatal source of Spinoza's atheism. Believing with
Descartes, that matter and extension are the same
thing, and that all the different phenomena of nature
are the effect of the necessary laws of motion, he
presently inferred, that immense extension and infi
nite force might be the properties of the same eternal
substance, which acts by the immutable lawsofa blind
necessity.
The most sublime genius of our age, being sensible
of these monstrous abuses of Cartesianism, resolved
to undermine the foundations of that philosophy. He
demonstrated, that the primary laws of motion are
purely arbitrary, and established with knowledge and
design by an intelligent Architect in order to the pre?
, 44
342 Ofthe Theology
ervation of his work, and the accomplishment of such
ends as are worthy of his wisdom. It is with great in
justice that this philosopher has been accused with
throwing us back into the occult qualities of the Peri-
pateticks.
I confess, indeed, that the obscure and confused
ideas which abound in the writings of some of his dis
ciples, have given too much occasion to certain foreign
ers to reject the philosophy of Sir Isaac Newton, at
the same time that they admire his geometry ; but it is
clear, from his* first writings, that he never considered
attraction as a cause, but only as an effect ; and that
he always supposed thnt this effect might be produced
by impulsion.i* Provided we reject the absolute ple
num of the Cartesians, their romantic elements, and
their celestial vortices, which are by no means geo
metrical, this incomparable philosopher^ admits that
there may be a subtle spirit, or ethereal matter diffus
ed through all the immense spaces, to be the universal
cause and spring of all the motions of the celestial and
terrestrial bodies ; of elasticity, electricity, cohesion,
fluidity, vegetation, and sensation ; of the emission,
refraction, and reflection of light, and even of attrac
tion itself, which he looks upon as the immediate cause
of the most part of natural effects ; he would not, how
ever, pretend to explain the laws of this ethereal fluid,
for want of a sufficient number of experiments to
prove them. It was an essential principle with him,
* Vis centripeta est, qua corpora versus punctum aliquid tan-
quam ad centrum undique trahuntur, impelluntur vel utconque ten-
dtint. Phil. Nat.. Prine. p. 2.
-t Quam ego attvadtionem cppello, fieri sane protest ut ea efficia-
tur impulsu, vcl alio aliquo modo nobis ignoto. Opt. Ed. Lat. p. 38C-.
\ Phil. Nat. p. ult. Opt. p. 3 50.
Of the Pagans. 343
that natural poilosophy should be founded upon ex
periments, and that these should afterwards be applied
to geometry, in order to gather from thence something
more to be depended upon than ingenious conjectures.
His writings discover sagacity, penetration and depth,
and all the marks of a solid understanding, which al
lows nothing to imagination in matters of reason ; and
though Descartes must be granted to have surpassed
him in perspicuity and method, he was unquestionably
neither so profound nor so geometrical a genius, and
gave a greater loose to imagination.
Socrates* follows close after Anaxagoras. The
common notion is, that he was a martyr for the unity
ofthe Godhead, in having refused to pay his homage
to the gods ofGreece ; but it is a mistake. In the apol
ogy that Plato makes for this philosopher, Socrates
acknowledged certain subordinate deities, and teaches,
that the stars and the sun are animated by intelligences
who ought to be worshipped with divine honors. The
same Plato, in his dialogue upon holiness,i* tells us,
that Socrates was not punished for denying that there
were inferior gods, but for declaiming openly against
the poets who ascribed human passions and enormous
crimes to those deities.
Socrates, however, whilst he supposed several in
ferior gods, admitted all the while bubonly one eternal
principle. Xenophon has left us an excellent abridg
ment of the theology of that philosopher. It is per
haps the most important piece we have ofantiquity.—
It contains the conversation of Socrates with Aristo-
* Flor. Olym. XC.
•t Plat. Euiyph. p. 5 and G.
344 Of the Theology
demus, who doubted ofthe existence of God. Socra
tes makes him at first take notice of all the characters
of design, of art, of the wisdom that appear all over
the universe, and particularly in the mechanism of the
human body. " Do you believe, says he then to Aris-
todemus, can you believe that you are the only intelli
gent being? You know that you possess but a little
particle of that matter which composes the world, a
small portion of that water which moistens it, a spark
of that flame which animates it. Is understanding
peculiar to you alone? Have you so engrossed and
confined it to yourself, that it is to be found no where
else ? Does blind chance work every thing, and is
there no such thing as wisdom besides what you
have ?" Aristodemus having replied, that he did not
see that wise Architect of the universe ; Socrates an
swered him-^-" Neither do you see the soul which
governs your own body, and regulates all its motions.
You might an well conclude, that you do nothing
yourself with design and reason, as maintain that every
thing is done by blind chance in the universe." Aris
todemus at length acknowledging a Supreme Being, is
still in doubt as to Providence ; not being able to
comprehend how the Deity can see every thing at
once. Socrates replies, " Jfthe spirit that resides in
your body moves and disposes it at its pleasure, why
should not that sovereign wisdom, which presides ov
er the universe, be able likewise to regulate and order
every thing as it pleases ? If your e}e can see objects
at the distance of several furlongs, why should not the
eye of God be able to see every thing at once 1 If your
soul can think at the same time upon what is at
Athens, in Egypt and in Sicily, why should not the di
Of the Pagans. 345
vine mind be able to take care of every thing, being
every where present to his work ?" Socrates perceiv
ing at last that the infidelity of Aristodemus did not
rise so much from his reason as from his heart, con
cludes with these words—" O Aristodemus, apply
yourself sincerely to worship God; he will enlighten
you, and all your doubts will soon be removed !"
Plato, a disciple of Socrates, follows the same prin
ciples. He lived about the hundredth Olympiad, at a
time when the doctrine of Democritus had not made a
great progress at Athens. The design of all his theol
ogy is to give us noble sentiments ofthe Deity, to shew
us that souls were condemned to animate mortal bodies,
only in order to expiate faults they had committed in a
pre-existent state ; and in fine, to teach that religion is
the only way to restore us to our first glory and perfec
tion. He despises all the tenets of the Athenian super
stition, and endeavors to purge religion of them. The
chief object of this philosopher is man in his immortal
capacity. He speaks of him in his politic one, only to
shew that the shortest way to immortality is to dis
charge all the duties of civil and social life for the pure
love of virtue.
Plato, in the beginning of Timaeus, distinguishes be
tween being which is eternally, and heing which has
been made. And in another of his dialogues he defines
God the efficient cause which makes things exist that
had no being before. A definition which shews that
he had an idea of creation. Nor is it at all surprising
that he should have this idea, since it applies to contra
diction. In reality, when God creates, he does not
draw a being out of nothing as out of a subject upon
which he works ; but he makes something exist which
346 Of the Theology
did not exist before. The idea of infinite power ne
cessarily supposes that of being able to procure new
substances, as well as new forms. To make a sub
stance exist which did not exist before, has nothing: in
it more inconceivable than the making a form exist
which was not before ; for in both cases there is a new
reality produced ; and whatever difficulties there are
in conceiving the passage frOm nothing to being, they
are as puzzling in the one as in the other. And there
fore it cannot be denied but that there is a moving
power, though we do not conceive how it acts ; so
neither must we deny that there is a creating power,
because we have not a clear idea of it.
To return to Plato. He first considers the Deity in
his eternal solitude before the production of finite be
ings. He says frequently, like the Egyptians, " That
this first source of Deity is surrounded with thick dark
ness, which no mortal can penetrate, and that this in
accessible God is to be adored only by silence." It is
this first principle which he calls in several places the
Being, the Unity, and the supreme Good ;* the same in
the intelligent world, that the sun is in the visible world.
He afterwards represents to us this first Being as sal
lying out of his Unity to consider all the various man
ners by which he might represent himself exteriorly ;
and thus the ideal world, comprehending the ideas of
all things, and the truths which result thence, was
formed in the divine understanding. Plato always dis
tinguishes between the Supreme Good, and that Wis
dom which is only an emanation from him. " That
which presents truth to the mind, says he, and that
De Rcpub. lib. 6. p, 6E6.
Of the Pagans. 347
which gives us reason, is the Supreme Good. He is
the cause and source of truth.* He hath begotten it
like himself. As the light is not the sun, but an eman
ation from it ; so truth is not the first principle, but
his emanation." And this is what he calls the Wisdom,
or the Logos. And, lastly, he considers the first Mo
ver displaying his power to form real beings, resemb
ling those archetypal ideas. *He styles him, + " The
Energy, or sovereign Architect who created the uni
verse and the gods, and who does whatsoever he pleas
es in heaven, or the earth, and in the shades below."
He calls him likewise " Psyche, or the soul which pre
sides over the world ;" to denote that this soul does not
make a part of the universe, but animates it, and gives
it all its forms and movements. Sometimes he consid
ers the three divine attributes as three causes, at other
times as three beings, and often as three gods. But he
affirms that they are all but one sole Divinity ; that
there is no esential difference between them ; that the
second is the image of the first, and the third of the
second ; that they are not three suns but one ; and that
they differ only as the light, its rays, and the reflec
tion of those rays. ||
In other places, and especially in the Timseus Lo
oms, f Plato speaks of three other principles, which
he calls jgta yA,, aitsKtvs- By the first he understands the
archetypal ideas contained in the divine intellect : By
the second, a primary matter, incorruptible, eternal,
uniform, without figure or division, but capable of re
* De Repub.lib. 6. p. 687.
t De Repub lib. 10. p. 749.
|| See Cudvvorth's Intellect. Syst. from p. 580 to p. 590
If Tim. Loc. p. 1089
348 Of the Theology
ceiving all forms and motions : by the third, the visible
universe bounded, corruptible, consisting of various
parts ; and this he styles the sun, the effect and the
work of the idea as the primitive father, and of the ra»
as the universal mother of whatever exists. We ought
never to confound these three principles of nature with
the three forms of the Divinity, which he calls Aga-
thos, Logos and Psyche* the sovereign Good, which is
the principle of Deity, the intellect which drew the plan
of the world, and the Energy which executed it.
Though we should suppose that Plato considered the
Logos and the Psyche, the Intellect and the Energy,
not only as two attributes, but as two hypostases, or
emanations from the divine substance, it would not
follow that the Christians took their doctrine of the
Trinity from him. He might owe this idea to the an
cient traditions transmitted from the infant world,
whence the Orientals, Chaldeans, Egyptians and
Greeks, originally drew their .soundest notions in di
vinity. The philosophers of all nations seem to have
had some idea, more or less confused, of a certain Tri-
plicity in the supreme Unity.* Christianity has only
unfolded this ancient doctrine. It teaches us, that in
the divine Essence there is a triple distinction of Father,
Son and Holy Spirit : that the actions of the one are
not the actions of the other ; that the father exists of
himself, independently, as the primitive source of Dei
ty ; that the Son comes forth from the Father by an in
comprehensible generation ; and the Holy Spirit from
both by an inconceivable procession ; and lastly, that
these two emanations from the Divinity are necessary,
* Plot. Enn. 5. 1 I. See CwUvorth's Intel! . Syst. from page 5-70
Of the Pagans. 349
co-eternal, consubstantial, infinite, and in all things
equal to the Father, his independence only excepted.
The church has been pleased to express this distinction
by the word persons, to denote that this Trinity is not
amere division ofattributes, as the Sabellians hold ; nor
yet three different substances, as the Tritheists maintain.
We have not a sufficiently clear idea ofthe eternal Na
ture to be able to deny but it may admit of such a dis
tinction. As to finite beings, indeed, the only distinc
tion we know in them, is that of modes and substances ;
but is this a reason to deny the possibility of another in
the infinite Essence ? Ignorance may be a reason for
doubting, but never for denying.
In order to silence the incredulous, and make this
mystery intelligible to them, a famous doctor of the
church of England, and, as I am assured, the greatest
philosopher of modern times, believed that it would do
no prejudice to the faith, to consider the three Persons
of the Trinity as three individual agents, or three dis
tinct beings, though ofthe same substance. This opin
ion is as far above Arianism, as Arianism is above So-
cinianism. Fausto-Socini maintained, that the Son had
never any existence before the incarnation. Arius held,
that he was created or produced out of nothing like
finite beings, but yet from all eternity, that is, before
all time. The learned Dr. Clarke maintains every
where, that the Word is not a creature, but an emana
tion from the Father, co-eternal and consubstantial ;
that this emanation is as essential to the Deity as his
veracity ; that it is not possible for the Father to be
without the Son, in any other sense than it is possible
for God to lie ; and consequently that the Word is not
a precarious being which God may annihilate.
45
350 Ofthe Theology
I will not pretend to justify any inconsiderate ex
pressions which may have dropt from the doctor ; we
find such in the fathers themselves. But charity, which
thinks no evil, believes all things, hopes all things,
endures all things, will never insist upon the literal
import of unguarded words, which are disavowed.—'
It must nevertheless be granted that this doctrine,
which is ascribed originally to Sir Isaac Newton, ex
plains nothing, and only plunges us intonew difficulties
greater than the first. There may easily be many dis
tinct beings, ofthe same divisible and finite substance ;
but it is impossible to conceive three distinct beings of
the infinite and indivisible substance, without destroy
ing his nature, and discerping the living and true God.
Is it not better contentedly tojoin with all Christian an-i
tiquity, in saying, that there is a tripple distinction, re
al, but incomprehensible, in the Divinity, than to
disturb the peace of the church with defining the met
aphysical nature of this distinction, by such ideas as
lead to Tritheism, contrary to the intention of those
who advance them ? How easy are the most extensive
geniuses led astray, when they shake off the yoke of
authority to give themselves up to their speculations t
But to proceed :
Aristotle, Plato's disciple, and prince of the peripa
tetic philosophers, calls God " the eternal and living
Being, the most noble ofall beings, a substance entirely
distinctfrom matter, withoutextension ,withoutdivision,
without parts, and without succession; who understands
everything by one singleact, and continuinghimselfim
moveable, gives motion to all things, and enjoys in
himself a perfect happiness, as knowing and contem
plating himself with infinite pleasure." In his meta
Of the Pagans. 351
physics he lays it down for a principle, " That God is
a supreme intelligence which acts with order, propor
tion and design ; and is the source of all that is good,
excellent and just." In his treatise of the soul, he says,
" That the supreme Mind is by its nature prior to all be
ings, that he has a sovereign dominion over all " And
in other places, he says, " that the first principle is
neither the fire, nor the earth, nor the water, nor any
thing that is the object of sense ; but that a spiritual
substance is the cause of the universe, and the source
of all the order and all the beauties, as well as of all
the motions and all the forms which we so much ad
mire in it." These passages shew, that though Aris
totle held matter to be eternal, he nevertheless consid
ered it as a production of the divine Intellect, and pos
terior in nature to it. He supposed the eternity of this
production, because he could not conceive how the di
vine Mind, being all act, and all energy, could ever
be in a state of inactivity. Besides this first and eter
nal Substance, he acknowledges several other intelli
gent beings that preside over the motions of the celes
tial spheres. " There is says he, but one only Mover,
and several inferior deities. All that is added about the
human shape of these deities, is nothing else but fic
tion, invented on purpose to instruct the common peo
ple, and engage them to an observance of good laws.
All must be reduced to one only primitive Substance,
and to several inferior substances, which govern in
subordination to the first. This is the genuine doc
trine of the ancients, which has happily escaped from
the wreck of truth, amidst the rocks of vulgar errors
and poetic fables."
352 Of the Theology
Cicero lived in an age when corruption of manners
and scepticism were at their height. The sect of Epi
curus had got the ascendant at Rome over that of Py
thagoras ; and some of the greatest men, when they
were reasoning about the divine nature, thought fit to
suspend their judgment, and waver between the two
opinions of a supreme Intelligence and a blind matter.
Cicero, in his treatise of the nature of the gods, pleads
the cause of the academic philosophers, who doubted
of every thing, It is however to be observed, that he
refutes Epicurus with great force of reasoning in his
first book, and that the objections which he makes in
his third, as an academic, are much weaker than the
proofs which he draws from the wonders that appear
in nature, which he insists on in his second book, to
demonstrate the existence of a supreme intelligence*
In his other works, and particularly in his book of
laws, he describes the universe to us, " As a republic
of which Jupiter is the prince and common father.—
The great law imprinted in the hearts of all men, is
to love the public good and the members of the com
mon society as themselves. This love of order is su
preme justice, and this justice is amiable for its own
sake. To love it only for the advantages it pro
duces in us, may be politic, but there is little of good
ness in it. It is the highest injustice to lovejustice on
ly for the sake of recompense. In a word, the univer
sal, immutable and eternal law of all intelligent be
ings is to promote the happiness of one another like
children of the same father." He next represents God
to us as a sovereign Wisdom, from whose authority it
is still more impracticable for intelligent natures to
withdraw themselves, than it is for corporeal ones.-r—
Of the Pagans. 353
*' According to the opinion of the wisest and greatest
men, says this philosopher, the law is not an invention
of human understanding, or the arbitrary constitution
of men, but flows from the eternal reason that governs
the universe. The rape which Tarquin committed up
on Lucretia, continues he, was not less criminal in its
nature, because there was not at that lime any written
law at Rome against such sort of violences The ty
rant was guilty ofa breach ofthe eternal law, the obli
gation whereof did not commence from the time it was
Written, but from the moment it was made. Now its
origin is as ancient as the divine Intellect ; for the true,
the primitive, and the supreme law, is nothing else
but the sovereign reason of the great Jove. This
law, says he in another place, is universal, eternal, im
mutable. It does not vary according to times and
places. It is not different now from what it was for
merly. The same immortal law is a rule to all na
tions, because it has no author but the one only God,
who brought it forth and promulged it." Such were
the reasonings of Cicero when he consulted natural
light, and was not carried away by a fondness of
shewing his wit in defending the doctrine of the scep
tics.
To come at last to Seneca the Stoic. He was Nero's
tutor, and lived in an age when Christianity was not
in credit enough to engage the heathens to borrow any
philosophical principles from thence. "It is of very
little consequence, says he, by what name you call the
first Nature, and the divine Reason that . presides over
the universe, and fills all the parts of it. He is still
the same God ; he is called Jupiter Stator, not, as
historians say, because he stopped the Roman armies
354 Ofthe Theology
as they were flying, but because he is the constant sup
port ofall beings. They may call him Fate, because
he is the first cause on which all others depend. We
Stoics call him sometimes Father Bacchus, because he
is the universal life that animates nature ; Hercules,
because his power is invincible ; Mercury, because he
is the eternal reason, order and wisdom. You may
give him as many names as you please, provided you
allow but one sole principle every where present."
Agreeably to Plato's notions, he considers the divine
Understanding as comprehending in itself the model
of all things, which he styles the immovable and al
mighty ideas. " Every workman, says he, hath a
model by which he forms his work. It signifies noth
ing whether this model exists outwardly and before
his eyes, or be formed within him by the strength of
his own genius ; so God produces within himself that
perfect model, which is the proportion, the order and
the beauty of all beings."
" The ancients, says he in another place, did not
think Jove such a being as we represent him in the
oapitol, and in our other buildings. But by Jove they
meant the Guardian and Governor ofthe universe, the
Understanding and the Mind, the Master and the Ar
chitect of this great machine. All names belong to
him. You are not in the wrong, if you call him Fate,
for he is the cause of causes, and every thing depends
on him. Would you call him Providence ; you fall
into no mistake, it is by his wisdom that this world is
governed. Would you call him Nature ; you will
not offend in doing so, it is from him that all beings
derive their origin, it is by him that they live and
breathe."
Of the Pagans. 355
There is no reading the works of Epictetus, of Ari-
na his disciple, and of Marcus Antoninus, without ad
miration. We find in them rules of morality worthy
of Christianity; and yet those disciples of Zeno be
lieved, like their master, that there was but one sub
stance, that the supreme intelligent Being was materi
al, and that his essence was a pure aether, which filled
all by local diffusion ; that whatever was not extended
was nothing ; and in short, that infinite extension was
the same with the divine immensity.
The Platonists represented to them, that it was a
gross imagination to suppose .that every thing which is,
exists by by local diffusion ; that were it so, the divine
essence would not be equally present every where;
that there would be more of it in a great space than in
a little one ; that it is absurd to conceive that which is
nothing but power, wisdom and goodness, under the
form of length, breadth and thickness ; that all other
beings exist in God, but that he exists only in himself;
that immense space is not the divine immensity, as
time everlasting is not the divine eternity ; that the
immensity of God is the manner of his existing in
himself without extension of parts, as his eternity is
the manner of his existing in himself without succes
sion of thoughts ; that space is but the manner where
in bodies exist in him, as time is but the manner in
which finite beings exist with him ; that the one meas
ures the bounds of the parts, and the other the varia
tion ofthe modes ; that we should have no idea of lo
cal extension, if there were no bodies, as we should
have no ideas of the successive duration, if there were
no changes ; and lastly, that the indefinite, unbounded
extension is not immense in all senses, as it is not in
356 Of the Theology
finite in all respects : but that God is immense in all
senses, as be is in all respects infinite.
It was thus that the Pagan philosophers talked of
the divine immensity before the rise of scholastic the
ology. The obscurity of our reasonings on this mat
ter proceeds from our want of a clear idea of substan
ces. We neither know nor distinguish them but by
their properties ; otherwise we should see, that the
supreme Unity may exist every where without exten
sion of parts, as he exists forever without succession
ofthoughts : that he is all in all places, as he beholds all
beings with one glance. • The reason ofour not having
a clear idea of the divine Immensity, is our not having
an adequate idea of infinity ; we ascribe to him cer
tain properties, because we see that they are contained
in the idea we have of him ; but we are obliged at the
same time, in order to avoid absurdities, to give him
other attributes which we do not comprehend. Thus
in geometry we admit the infinite divisibility ofmatter,
and the doctrine ofasymptotes which follows from it,
without having a clear idea of either ofthem.
But after all, the materialism of the Stoics does not
evince that they were Atheists ; a false notion about
the Deity being far from- proving that they believed
none at all. What constitutes an Atheist, is not the
maintaining with the Orientals, that matter is an ex
pansion of the divine substance ; nor with the Stoics,
that the infinite essence is a pure aether ; nor with the
Platonists, that the universe is an eternal production of
the Deity ; but real Atheism consists in denying that
there is a supreme Intelligence, who made the world by
his power, and governs it by his wisdom.
Of the Pagans. 35T
For our fuller satisfaction, with regard to the the
ology ofthe heathens, let us see what the fathers ofthe
church thought of it. , They had sufficient opportuni
ties of knowing it thoroughly, by the frequent disputes
which they held with them. As this is a matter of a
very nice nature, it may be dangerous to indulge any
thing to one's own conjectures ; let us have recourse
to wise antiquity. Arnobius introduces the heathens
complaining ofthe injustice of the Christians. " It is
a mere calumny, say those heathens, to charge us
with such a crime as the denying of a supreme God.
We call him Jove, the supremely great and sove
reignly good ; we dedicate our most magnificent
structures and our capitols to him, to shew that we
exalt him above all other deities. St. Peter, in his
preachings at Athens, says St. Clement of Alexandria,
insinuates that the Greeks had a knowledge of the
Deity. He supposes that those people adore the
same God as we do, though not in the same manner.
He does not forbid us to adore the same God as the
Greeks, but he forbids us to adore him after the same
way. He orders us to change the manner, and not
the object of our worship. The heathens, says Lac-
tantius, who admit several gods, say nevertheless that
those subordinate deities, though they preside overall
the various parts of the universe, do it in such a man
ner, as that there is still but one sole Ruler and su
preme Governor. From whence it follows, that all
other invisible powers are not properly gods, but
ministers or deputies of the one great and almighty
God, who appointed them executors of his will and
pleasure." Eusebius of Cesarea goes father. " The
heathens own that there is but one only God, who fills,
46
358 Of the Theology
pervades, and presides over universal nature ; but
they maintain, that as he is present to his work only
in an incorporeal and invisible manner, they are
therefore in the right to worship him in his visible and
corporeal effects." I shall conclude with a famous
passage ofSt. Austin, who reduces the polytheism of
the heathens to the unity ofone sole Principle. " Ju
piter, says this father, is according to the philosophers,
the soul of the world, who takes different names ac
cording to the different effects which he produces.—
In the etherial spaces' tjKeNs called Jupiter, in the air
Juno, in the sea Neptune, in the earth Pluto, in hell
Proserpine, in the element of fire Vulcan, in the sun
Phoebus, in divination Apollo, in war Mars, in the vin
tage Bacchus, in the harvest Ceres, in the forests Di
ana, and in the sciences Minerva. All that crowd of
gods and goddesses are only the same Jupiter, whose
different powers and attributes are expressed by differ
ent names." It is therefore evident, by the testimony
of profane poets, heathen philosophers, and fathers of
the church, that the Pagans acknowledged one sole su
preme Deity. The Orientals,the Egyptians, the Greeks,
the Romans, and all nations agreed universally in teach
ing this truth.
About the fiftieth Olympiad, six hundred years be
fore the Christian era, the Greeks having lost the tra
ditional knowledge ofthe Orientals, began to lay aside
the doctrine of the ancients, and to reason about the di
vine nature from prejudices, which their senses and im
agination suggested. 1. Anaximander lived at that
o OB
time, and was the first who set himself to destroy the
belief of a supreme Intelligence, in order to account for
every thing by the action of blind matter, which by ne
cessity assumes all sorts of forms. He was followed
Of the Pagans. 350
by Leucippus, Democritus, Epicurus, Strato, Lucretius,
and all the school of the atomical philosophers. 2. Py
thagoras, Anaxagoras, Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and
all the great men of Greece, opposed this impious doc
trine, and endeavored to re-establish the ancient the
ology ofthe Orientals. These philosophers of a supe
rior genius observing in nature, motion, thought and
design, and the idea of matter including none of these
properties ; they inferred from thence, that there was in
nature another substance besides matter. Greece be
ing thus divided into two sects, they disputed for a long
time, without either party being convinced. 3. At
length, about the 20th Olympiad, Pyrrho formed a
third sect, whose great principle was to doubt of every
thing, and determine nothing. All the Atomists, who
had labored in vain to find out a demonstration of their
false principles, presently struck in with the Pyrrhon-
ian sect. They ran wildly into an universal doubting,
and carried it almost to such an excess of phrenzy, that
they doubted of the dearest and most palpable truths.
They maintained, without any allegory, that every
thing we see is only an illusion, and that the whole se
ries of life is but a perpetual dream, of which those in
the night are only so many images. 4. At last Zeno
set up a fourth sohool about the 130th Olympiad. This
philosopher endeavored to reconcile the disciples ofDe
mocritus with those of Plato, by maintaining that the
first principle was indeed an infinite Wisdom, but that
his essence was only a pure aether, or a subtle light,
which diffused itselfevery where, to give life, motion and
reason to all beings.
It is plain, then, that there were four sorts of philoso
phers among the ancients ; the Atheists or Atomists,
360 Ofthe Theofogy
the Spiritualists or Theists, the Materialists or Stoics,
the Pyrrhonians or Academics. In these last ages the
modern free-thinkers have only revived the ancient er
rors, disguising them under new terms. .
1. Jordano Bruno, Vannini, and Spinoza, have
vamped up the monstrous system of Anaximander ;
and have added only some artful distinctions to impose
upon weak minds. Spinoza, perceiving clearly that
thought could not be an effect of matter, endeavored to
prevent all objections against the Materialists, by main
taining that extension andj^hought are properties of the
same substance ; that the ideas of objects are really
nothing different from the objects themselves ; that
extension and matter are the same ; that infinite space
is the immensity of God, as infinite time is his eternity ;
and consequently that all essences are but different
forms of the same substance. It must nevertheless be
granted, that his Atheism does not consist in these er
rors, since they have all been maintained by philoso
phers who had a sincercabhorrence of impiety. Spin
oza's Atheism lies wholly in this, that he makes the
one only substance, for which he contends, to act with
out knowledge or design., 2. Descartes, Mallebranche,
Poiret, Leibnitz, Sir Isaac Newton, Dr. Bently, Dr,
Clarke, Dr. Cheyne, and several philosophers of a gen
ius equally subtle and profound, have endeavored to
refute these errors, and brought arguments to support
the ancient theology. Besides the proofs which are
drawn from the effects, they have insisted on others
drawn from the idea of the first cause. They shew
plainly, that the reasons for believing are infinitely
stronger than those for doubting ; and that it is absurd
to deny what we see clearly, because we do not see
Of the Pagans. 361
farther. 8. Mr. Hobbes, and some philosophers of
more faith, Behmen, and several cablistical writers,
have revived the errors of the Stoics, and pretend that
extension is the basis of all substances ; that the soul
differs from the body only as being more subtilized ;
that a spirit is but a rarefied body, and a body a con
densed spirit ; and lastly, that the infinite Being,
though indivisible, is extended by local diffusion. 4.
To conclude, there are some superficial minds, who, not
being able to look upon truth with a steady view, nor
to weigh the degrees of evidence, nor to compare the
force of proofs with that of objections, persuade them
selves, that the mind ofman is not formed for the know
ledge oftruth, run headlong into an universal doubting,
and fall atMength into a senseless kind of Pyrrhonism,
called Egomism, where every one fancies himself to be
the only being that exists. The history of former times
is like that of our own. Human 'Understanding takes
almost the same forms in different ages, and loses its
way in the same labyrinths ; there are periodical dis
eases ofthe mind as well as of the body.
"
ii- . '^
PART II.
OF THE MYTHOLOGY OF THE PAGANS
MEN, left to the light of their reason alone, have
always looked upon moral and physical evil as a shock
ing phenomenon in the work ofa Being infinitely wise,
good and powerful. To account for it, the philoso
phers have had recourse to several hypotheses. Rea
son told them all, that what is supremely good, could
never produce anything that was wicked or miserable.
From hence they concluded, that souls are not now
what they were at first ; that they are degraded, for
some fault committed by them in a former state; that
this life is a state of exile and expiation ; and, in a
word, that al! beings are to be restored to their propec
order. Tradition struck in with reason, and this tra
dition had spread over all nations certain opinions,
which they held in common, with regard to the three
states of the world, as I shall shew in this second part,
which will be a sort of abridgment of the traditional
doctrine of the ancients.
I begin with the mythology of the Greeks and Ro
mans. All the poets, speaking ofthe golden age, or reign
ofSaturn, describe it to us as an happy state, in which
there were neither calamities, nor crimes, nor labor,
nor pains, nor diseases, nor death. They represent,
on the contrary, the iron age, at the time when phys
ical and moral evil first appeared ; then it was that vi
ces, the sufferings, and all manner of evils, came forth
Of the Mythology, $c. 363
of Padora's box, and overflowed the face of the eartTi.
They speak to us of the golden age renewed, as of a
time when Astrea was to return upon earth ; when
justice, peace and innocence were to flourish again
with their original lustre ; and when every thing was
to be restored to its primitive perfection. In a word,
they sing on all occasions the exploits of a son of Ju
piter, who was to quit his heavenly abode, and live
among men. They gave him different names, accord
ing to his different functions ; sometimes he is Apollo
fighting against Python and the Titans ; sometimes he
is Hercules, destroying monsters and giants, and purg
ing the earth oftheir enormities and crimes ; one while
he is Mercury, or the messenger of Jove, flying about
every where to execute his decrees ; and another while
he is Perseus, delivering Andromeda, or human nature,
from the monster that rose out of the great deep to de
vour her. He is always some son of Jupiter, giving
battles, and gaining victories. I will not insist upon
these poetical descriptions, because they may perhaps
be looked upon as mere fictions, and a machinery in
troduced to embellish a poem, and amuse the mind.—
Allegorical explications are liable to uncertainty and
mistake ; so that I shall go on directly to represent the
doctrine of the philosophers, particularly that of Pla
to, which is the source from whence Plotinus, Proclus,
and the Platonists of the third century, drew their
principal notions.
To begin with the dialogue of Phaedo, or of immor
tality, and give a short analysis of it. Phaedo gives
his friend an account of the condition in which he saw
Socrates at the time of his death. "He quitted life,
says he, with a serene joy, and a noble intrepidity."
364 Qf ike Mythology
His friends asking him the reason of it ; "I hope, says
Socrates in his answer, to be re-united to the good and
perfect gods, and to be associated with better men than
those I leave upon earth." When Cebes objects to him,
that the soul vanishes after death like a smoke, and is
entirely annihilated, Socrates sets himself to refute
that opinion, and endeavors to prove that the soul had
a real existence in an happy state, before it informed a
human body. This doctrine he ascribes to Orpheus.
" The disciples of Orpheus, says he, called the body
a prison, because the soul is here in a state of punish
ment, till it has expiated the faults that it committed
in heaven. Souls, continued Plato, that are too much
given to bodily pleasures, and are in a manner besotted,
wander upon earth, and are put into new bodies; for
all sensuality and passion cause the soul to have a
stronger attachment to the body, make her fancy that
she is of the same nature, and render her in a manner
corporeal ; so that she contracts an incapacity of fly
ing away into another life. Being oppressed with the
weight of her impurity and corruptions, she sinks a-
gain into matter, and becomes thereby disabled to re
mount towards the regions of purity, and attain to a
re-union with her principle."
Upon this foundation is built the doctrine of the trans
migration of souls, which Plato represents in tie second
Timseusas an allegory, and at other times as a thing
real, where souls that have made themselves unwor
thy of the supreme beatitude, sojourn and suffer suc
cessively in the bodies of different animals, till at last
they are purged of their crimes, by the pains they un
dergo. This hath made some philosophers believe that
the souls of beasts are degraded spirits ; a very ancient
Ofthe Pagans. 365
doctrine, and common to all the the Asiatics, from
whom Pythagoras and Plato derived it ; but the po
ets had much debased it by their fictions. They sup
posed that there was anuniversal and eternal metemp
sychosis ? that all spirits were subject to it, without
ever arriving at any fixed state. The philosophers, on
the contrary, believed that none but depraved souls
were destined to such a transmigration, and that it
would one day be at an end, when they were purified
from their crimes.
The Pythagoreans and Platonists, not being able
to persuade themselves that the brutes were absolutely
insensible of pleasure and pain, for that matter was
capable of sensation and consciousness, or that the
divine justice could inflict sufferings on intelligences
that had never offended, thought the doctrine of trans
migration less absurd than that of mere machines,
material souls, or pure intelligences, formed only to
animate the bodies of beasts.
The first of these opinions is altogether contrary to
experience : and though we may by general and in
genious hypotheses throw a mist before our eyes, yet
whenever we examine nicely into all appearances of
sensation discernable in beasts, we can never seriously
doubt ofit. I do not say the appearances of reflection,
but of sensation ; I am not unaware, that in our own
bodies we have frequent motions of which we are not
conscious, and which nevertheless seem to be the effect
of the most exact and geometrical reasoning. I speak
therefore of the marks of pleasure and pain which we
observe in the brutes ; and I think that we can have
no pretence to reject such evidence, unless it be that
we do not feel what happens to them ; but then, for
47
366 Of the Mythology
the same reason, we might believe, that all other mem
are machines. The second opinion, which is that of
material souls, held by the Peripatetics, tends to destroy
all the proofs ofthe immateriality ofour spirits. Ifmat
ter be capable of sensation, it may likewise be capable
of reflecting upon its own sensations, and the Material
ists will gain their point. The third opinion destroys
all our soundest notions ofthe Deity, by supposing that
God can create beings which shall be immediately un
happy, without any previous demerit oh theur part, de
grade pure intelligences without any reason, and when
they for a while have acted in mortal bodies, a part
much below the dignity of their nature, reduce them
again to nothing.
I will venture to say, that the doctrine of transmi
gration is less repugnant, not only to reason and expe
rience, but likewise to religion, than either of the other
three. We see iu the sacred oracles, that impure spir
its may desire sometimes to enter into the bodies of the
vilest animals. After all, a true philosopher will be
prudently sceptical with regard to alL uncertain con
jectures. The only use which I would make of what
has been above advanced, is to shew the incredulous,
that they say nothing to the purpose against us, when
they maintain that our soulsdie like those ofthe brutes ;
and farther, that the fictions of the ancients, how ab
surd soever they at first appear, are often more defensi
ble than the systems ofthe moderns, whieh are so much
admired for a depth of penetration.
To return to Plato. " Pure souls, adds he in his
Phffido, that have exerted themselves here below to get
the better of all corruption, and free themselves from
the impurities of their terrestrial prison, retire after
Of the Pagans. 367
death into an invisible place, unknown to us, where the
pute unites with the pure, the good cleaves to his like,
and our immortal essence is united to the divine." He
calls this place the first earth, where souls made their
abode before their degradation. " The earth, says he,
is immense ; we know, and we inhabit, only a small
corner of it ; that eternal earth the ancient abode of
souls, is placed in the pure regions of heaven, where
the stars are seated. We that live in this low abyss,
are apt enough to fancy that we are in a high place,
and we call the air, the heavens ; just like a man that
from the bottom of the sea should view the sun and
stars through the water, and fancy the ocean to be the
firmament itself. But if we had wings to mount on
high, we should see that there is the true heaven, the
true light, and the true earth. As in the sea every
thing is altered and disfigured by the salts that abound
in it ; so in our present earth every thing is deformed,
corrupted, and in a ruinous condition, if compared with
the primitive earth." Plato gives afterwards a pom
pous description of that ethereal earth, of which ours
is only a broken crust. "He says, that every thing
there was beautiful, harmonious, and transparent ;
fruits of an exquisite taste grew there naturally ; and it
was watered with rivers of nectar. They there
breathed the light as we here breathe the air, and they
drank waters which were purer than air itself." This
notion of Plato agrees in a great measure with that of
Descartes, about the nature ofthe planets ; this modern
philosopher was of opinion, that they were at first suns,
which contracted afterwards a thick and opaque crust.
The same doctrine of Plato is likewise clearly ex
plained in his Timaeus. There he tells us how Solon,
368 Of the Mythology
in his travels, discoursed with an Egyptian priest about
the antiquity of the world, its origin, and the revolutions
which had happened in it, according to the mythology
ef the Greeks. Upon which the Egyptian priest says
to him, "O Solon, you Greeks are always children,
and you never come to an age of maturity : your un
derstanding is young, and has no true knowledge ofan
tiquity. There have been upon earth several deluges
and conflagrations, caused by changes in the motion of
the heavenly bodies. Your history of Phaeton, what
ever air it has of a fable, is nevertheless not without a
real foundation. We Egyptians have preserved the
memory of these facts in our monuments and temples ;
whereas it is but a very little while that the Greeks have
had any knowledge of letters, ofthe muses and of the sci
ences." This discourse puts Timreus upon explaining to
Socrates the origin of things, and the primitive state of
the world. " Whatever has been produced, says he,
has been produced by some cause, ft is no easy mat
ter to know the nature of this Maker and Father of
the universe ; and though you should discover it, it
would be impossible for you to make the vulgar com
prehend it. This Architect of the world, continues he,
had a model by which he produced everything, and
this model is himself. As he is good, and what is
good has not the least tincture of envy, he made all
things as far as was possible like himself. He made
the world perfect in the whole of its constitution, per
fect too in all the various parts that compose it, which
were subject neither to diseases, nor to decay of age.—
The Father of all things, beholding this beautiful im-
' age of himself, took a complacency in his work, and
Of the Pagans. 869
this complacency raised in hiin a desire of improving it
to a nearer likeness to its model."
In the dialogue which bears the title of Politichus,
Plato, mentioning this primitive state of the world,
calls it the reign ofSaturn, and describes it in this man
ner. " God was then the Prince and common Father
of all ; he governed the world by himself, as he gov
erns it now by inferior deities. Rage and cruelty did
not then prevail upon earth ; war and sedition were
not so much as known. God himselftook care of the
sustenance of mankind, and was their Guardian and
Shepherd. There were no magistrates, no civil poli
cy, as there are now. In those happy days men
sprung out of the bosom of the earth, which produced
them of itself, like flowers and trees. The fertile fields
yielded fruits and corn without the labor of tillage.—
Mankind stood in no need of raiment to cover their
bodies, being troubled with no inclemency of the sea
sons ; and they took their rest upon beds of turf of a
perpetual verdure. Under the reign of Jupiter, Sat
urn, the master of the universe, having quitted as it
were the reins of his empire, hid himselfin an inacces
sible retreat. The inferior gods who governed under
him, retired likewise ; the very foundations of the
world weie shaken by motions contrary toits principle
and its end, and it lost its beauty and its lustre.—
Then it was that good and evil were blended together.
But in the end, lest the world should be plunged in an
eternal abyss of confusion, God, the Author of the
primitive order, will appear again, and resume the
reins of empire. Then he will change, amend, em
bellish, and restore the whole frame of nature, and
put an end to decay of age, to diseases and death."
370 Ofthe Mythology
In the dialogue under the title of Pha>drus, Plato
more distinctly unfolds the secret causes of moral evil,
which brought in physical evil. " There are in eveVy
one of us, says he, two principal springs of action ; the
desire of pleasure, and the love of virtue, which are
the wings of the soul. When these wings are parted,
when the love of pleasure and the love of virtue carry
us contrary ways, then souls fall down into mortal bod
ies.'' Let us see here his notion of the pleasures
which spirits taste in heaven, and of the manner how
souls fell from the happy state which they enjoyed
there. " The great Jupiter, says he, animating his
winged chariot, marches first, followed by all the infe
rior gods and genii ; thus they traverse the heavens,
admiring the infinite wonders thereof. But when
they go up to the great banquet, they raise themselves
to the top of heaven, and mount above the spheres.—
None of our poets ever yet sung or can sing, that su
per-celestial place. It is there that souls contemplate,
with the eyes of the understanding, the truly exist
ing Essence, which has neither color nor figure, nor
is the object of any sense, but is purely intelligible.—
There they see virtue, truth and justice, not as they
are here below, but as they exist in him who is* being
itself. There they satiate themselves with that sight
till they are no longer able to bear the glory of it, and
then they return back to heaven, where they feed
again on nectar and ambrosia. Such is the life of the
gods. Now, continues Plato, every soul which fol
lows God faithfully into that super-celestial place,
preserves itself pure and without blemish ; but if it
takes up with nectar and ambrosia, and does not at
tend on Jupiter's chariot, to go and contemplate truth,
Of the Pagans. 371
it grows heavy and sluggish, it breaks its wings, it
falls upon the earth, and enters into a human body
more or less vile, according as it has been more or less
elevated. Souls less degraded than others dwell in
the bodies of philosophers. The most despicable of
all animate the bodies of tyrants and evil princes.—
Their condition shews it after death, and becomes
more or less happy, according as they have loved vir
tue or vice, in their life-time. After ten thousand
years, souls will be re-united to their origin, During
that space of time their wings grow again and are re
newed."
Such was the doctrine which Plato opposed to the
profane sect of Democritus and Epicurus, who denied
an eternal providence, on account of the physical and
moral evil which they saw in the world. This phi
losopher gives us a fine description of the universe.—
He considers it as an immensity filled with free spirits,
which inhabit and inform innumerable worlds. These
spirits are qualified to enjoy a double felicity ; the one
consisting in the contemplation of the divine Essence,
the other in admiring his works. When souls no long
er make their felicity consist in the knowledge of truth,
and when lower pleasures turn them offfrom the love of
the supreme Essence, they are thrown into some pla
net, there to undergoexpiatory punishments, till they are
cured by their sufferings. These planets are conse
quently, according to Plato's notion, like hospitals or
places instituted for the cure of distempered intelli
gences. Such is the inviolable law established for the
preservation of order in the celestial spheres. This
double enjoyment of the heavenly spirits is one of the
372 Of the Mythology
sublimest notions, of Plato, and shews the wonderM
depth of his genius. • •
It was the system adopted by the heathen philoso
phers, whenever they attempted to explain to us the
origin of evil ; and thus they reason. If souls could,
without intermission, contemplate the divine Essence
with a direct view, they would be impeccable, the
sight of the supreme good necessarily engaging all the
love of the will. To explain therefore the fall of spir
its, they are forced to suppose an interval, when the
soul withdraws from the divine presence, and quits the
super-celestial abode, in order to admire the beauties
of nature, and entertain herself with ambrosia, as a
food less delicate, and more suitable to a finite being.
It is in these intervals that she becomes false to her
duty.
Pythagoras had learned the same doctrine among
the Egyptians. We have still a very valuable monu
ment of it left, in the commentary of Hierocles upon
the golden verses ascribed to that philosopher. " As
our alienation from God, says this author, and the loss
of the wings which used to raise us up to heavenly
things, have thrown us down into this region of death,
which is over-run with all manner of evils ; so the
stripping ourselves of earthly affections, and the revi
val of virtues in us, make our wings grow again, and
raise us up to the mansions of life, where true good
is to be found without any mixture of evil. The es
sence of man being in the middle between beings that
contemplate God without ceasing, and such as are
notable to contemplate him at all, he has it in his pow
er to raise himself up towards the one, or sink down
towards the other. The wicked man, says Hierocles
Of the Pagans. 878
in another place, does not care that the soul should be
immortal, forfear he shouldliveafter death, only to suf
fer punishment. But the judges of the shades below,
as they form their judgment upon the rules of truth, do
not decree that the soul should exist no longer, but that
it should be no longer vicious. Their business is to
correct and cure it, by prescribing punishments for the
health of nature, just as physicians heal the most in
veterate ulcers by incisions. These judges punish the
crime, in order to extirpate vice. They do not anni
hilate the essence of the soul, but bring it back to a true
and genuine existence, purifying it from all the pas
sions that corrupt it. And therefore when we have
sinned, we should be glad to embrace the punishment,
as the only remedy for vice."
It is, therefore, evidently the doctrine of the most fa
mous Greek philosophers : 1. That souls had a pre-
existence in heaven. 2. That the Jupiter, who march
ed at the head of souls before the loss of their wings, is
distinct from the supreme Essence, and is very like
the Mythras of the Persians, and the Orus of the E-
gyptians. 3. That souls lost their wings, and were
thrust down into mortal bodies, because, that instead
of following Jupiter's chariot, they gave themselves
too much up to the enjoyment of lower pleasures. 4.
That at the end of a certain period of time, the wings
of the soul shall grow again, and Saturn shall resume
the reins of his empire in order to restore the universe
to its original splendor.
Let us now examine the Egyptian mythology, the
source from whence that of the Greeks was derived.
I shall not offer to maintain the mystical explications
that Kircher gives of the famous table of Isis, and of
48
374 Of the Mythology
the obelisks that are to be seen at Rome. 1 confine my
self to Plutarch, who las preserved us an admirable
monument of that mythology. To represent it in its
real beauties, it will be proper to give a short and clear
analysis of his treatise of Isis and Osiris, which is a let
ter written to Clea, priestess of Isis. " The Egyptian
-mythology, says Plutarch, has two senses ; the one sa
cred and sublime, the other sensible and palpable. It
is for this reason that the Egyptians put sphynxes before
the door oftheir temples ; designing thereby to signify
to us that their theology contains the secrets of wisdom
under enigmatical words. This is also the sense of the
inscription upon a statue ofPallas or Isis, at Sais, I am
all that is, has been, and shall be, and no mortal has ever
yet removed the veil that covers me. He afterwards re
lates the Egyptian fable of Isis and Osiris. They were
both born of Rhea and the sun ; whilst they were still
in their mother's womb, they jointly engendered the
god Orus, the living image of their substance, Ty-
phon was not born, but burst violently through the ribs
of Rhea. He afterwards revolted against Osiris, filled
the universe with his rage and violence, tore the body of
his brother in pieces, mangled his limbs, and scattered
them about. Ever since that time, Isis goes wander
ing about the earth, to gather up the scattered limbs of
her brother and husband. The eternal and immortal
soul of Osiris led his son Orus to the shades below,
where he gave him instructions how to fight, and to
vanquish Typhon. Orus returned upon earth, fought
and defeated Typhon, but did not kill him ; he only
bound him, and took away his power of doing mis
chief. The wicked one made his escape afterwards,
and was going to throw all again into disorder. Bu'
Of the Pagans. 875
Orus fought him in two bloody battles, and destroyed
him entirely. Plutarch goes on thus. Whoever ap-
plieth these allegories to the divine nature, ever bles-
ed and immortal, deserves to be treated with contempt.
We must not, however, believe that they are mere fa
bles without any meaning, like those of the poets.
They represent to us things that really happened. It
would be likewise a dangerous error, and manifest im
piety, to interpret what is said of the gods, as Eveme-
rusthe Messenian did, and apply it to the ancient kings
and great generals. This would in the end serve to
destroy religion, aud estrange men from the Deity.
There are others, adds he, much juster in their notions
who have wrote, that whatever is related of Typhon.
Osiris, Isis and Orus, must be understood of genii and
demons. This was the opinion of Pythagoras, Plato,
Xenocrates and Chrysippus, who followed the ancient
theologists in this notion. All those great men main
tained that these genii were very powerful, and far su
perior to mortals ; that they did not, however, partake
of the Deity in a pure and simple manner, but were
composed of a spiritual and corporeal nature, and were
continually capable of pleasures and pains, passions and
changes ; for there are virtues and vices among the ge
nii as well as among men. Hence come the fables of
the Greeks concerning the Titans and Giants, the en
gagements of Python against Apollo, and the furies
and extravagances of Bacchus, with several other fic
tions like those of Osiris and Typhon. Hence it is,
likewise, that Homer speaks of good and evil demons.
Plato calls the first tutelary deities, because they are
mediators between the Deity and men, carry up the
prayers of mortals to heaven, and bring us from thence
376 Ofthe Mythology
the knowledge and revelation of secret and future
things. Empedocles, continues he, says, that the evil
demons are punished for the faults they have committed.
First the sun precipitates them into the air ; the air casts
them into the deep sea ; the sea vomits them up upon
the land, and from the earth they are raised at last to
heaven. Thus are they transported from one place to
another, till being in the end punished and purified,
they return to the place adapted to their nature."
Plutarch, after having thus given a theological explana
tion of the Egyptian allegories, gives likewise the phys
ical explications of them ; but he rejects them all. and
returns to his first doctrine. " Osiris is neither the sun,
nor the water, nor the earth, nor the heaven , but
whatever there is in nature well disposed, well regula
ted, good and perfect, all that is the image of Osiris.
Typhon is neither aridity, nor the sea ; but whatever is
hurtful, inconstant and irregular." We must observe,
that in this Egyptian allegory, Osiris does not signify,
as in other places, the first principle of Deity, the Aga-
thos ofPlato, but the son ofAmmon, the Apollo of the
Greeks, Jupiter the conductor, a god inferior to the su
preme Deity. It was an ancient opinion among the
Pagans and Hebrews, that the Divinity had united
himself to the first and most perfect production of his
power.
Plutarch goes father in another treatise, and explains
to us the origin of evil. His reasoning on this occasion
is equally solid and subtile, and is as follows. " The
Maker of the world, being perfectly good, formed all
things at first, as far as was possible, like himself.—
The world at its birth received from him who made it
all sorts of good things ; whatever it has at present of
Of the Pagans. 37?
unhappy and wicked, is an indisposition foreign to its
nature. God cannot be the cause of evil, because he
is sovereignly good ; matter cannot be the cause, be
cause it has no active force. But evil comes from a
third principle, neither so perfect as God, nor so im- :
perfect as matter. This third being is intelligent na
ture, which hath within itself a source, a principle, and
a cause of motion."
I have already shewn that the schools of Pythago
ras and Plato asserted liberty of will. The former
expresses it by that faculty of the soul, whereby it can
either raise or debase itself ; the other, by the wings
of the soul, that is the love of virtue, and the love of
pleasure, which may move different ways. Plutarch
follows the same principles, and makes liberty con
sist in the activity ofthe soul, by which it is the source
of its own determinations.
This opinion, therefore, ought to be looked upon as
modern ; it is at once both natural and phylosophical.
The soul can always separate and re-unite, recal and
compare her ideas, and on this activity depends her
liberty. We can- always think upon other goods than
those we are actually thinking of. It must be owned
that the passions, by the strong sensations they excite
in us, sometimes take up all the capacity of the soul,
and hinder it from reflecting ; they darken its discern
ing faculty, and hurry it on to an assent ; they trans
form objects, and place them in a wrong light. But
strong as they are, they are never invincible ; it is dif
ficult indeed, but not impossible, to surmount them ;
it is always in our power gradually to diminish their
force and prevent their excess. This is the warfare
of man on earth, and this is the triumph of virtue.—
,378 Of the Mythology
The heathens feeling this tyranny of the passions,
were convinced by the light of nature alone of the ne
cessity of a celestial power to subdue them. They
always represent virtue to us as a divine energy de
scending from heaven. They are continually bringing
into their poems guardian deities, who inspire, en
lighten and strengthen us ; to shew that heroic virtues
can only proceed from the gods. TLese were the
principles upon which the wise ancients went, in their
arguments against those notions of fatality, which are
alike destructive of religion, morality and society.
To return to the Egyptians. Their doctrine, ac
cording to Plutarch, supposes—1. That the world
was created without any physical or moral evil, by a
Being infinitely good. 2. That several genii abusing
their liberty, fell into crimes, and thereby into misery.
3. That these genii must suffer expiatory punishments,
till they are purified and restored to their first state.
4. That the god Orus, the son of Isis and Osiris, and
who fights with the evil principle, is a subordinate
deity, like Jupiter the conductor the son of Saturn.
Let us consult next the mythology of the Orientals.
The nearer we approach the first origin of nations,
the more pure shall we find their theology. "Zo
roaster, says Plutarch, taught there are two gods
contrary to each other in their operations ; the one
the author of all the good, the other of all the evil in
nature. The good principle he calls Oromazes, the
other the demon Arimarrius. He says, that the one
resembles light and truth, the other darkness and ig
norance. There is likewise a middle god between
these two, named Mythras, whom the Persians call
the intercessor or mediator. The magi add, that 0
Of the Pagans, 379
romazes is born of the purest light, and Arimanius of
darkness ; that they continually make war upon one
another, and that Oronaazes made six genii, goodness,
truth, justice, wisdom, plenty and joy ; and Arimani
us made six others to oppose them, malice, falsehood,
injustice, folly, want and sadness. Oromazes having
withdrawn himself to as great a distance from the
sphere of Arimanius, as the sun is from the earth,
beautified the heavens with stars and constellations.
He created afterwards four and twenty other genii, and
put them into an egg (by which the ancients mean the
earth ;) but Arimanius and his genii broke through this
shining egg, and immediately evil was blended and
confounded with good. But there will come a time
appointed by fate, when Arimanius will be entirely
destroyed and extirpated ; the earth will change its
form, and become plain and even ; and happy men will
have only one and the same life, language and govern
ment." Theopompus writes also, " that according to
the doctrine of the magi, these gods must make war
for nine thousand years, the one destroying the other's
work, till at last hell shall be no more. Then men
shall be happy, and their bodies become transparent.
The God who made all things, keeps himselfconceal
ed till that time ; an interval not too long for a God,
but rather like a moment of sleep."
We have lost the ancient books of the first Persians ;
so that in order to judge of their mythology, we must
have recourse to the Oriental philosophers of bur time,
and see if there be still left among the disciples of Zo
roaster, any traces of the ancient doctrine of their
master. The famons Dr. Hide, a divine of the church
of England, who had travelled into the East, and per
380 Of the Mythology
fectly understood the language of the country, has
translated the following passages out of Sharisthani,
an Arabian philosopher ofthe fifteenth century. " The
first magi did not look upon the two principles as co-
eternal, but believed that light was eternal, and that
darkness was produced in time ; and the origin of this
evil principle they account for in this manner. Light
can produce nothing but light, and can never be the
origin of evil ; how then was evil produced ] Light,
say they, produced several beings, all of them spirit
ual, luminous and powerful ; but their chief, whose
name was Ahriman or Arimanius, had an evil thought
contrary to the light. He doubted, and by that doubt
ing he became dark. From hence proceeded all evils,
dissension, malice, and every thing else ofa contrary na
ture to the light. These two principles made war up
on one another, till at last peace was concluded, upon
condition that the lower world should be in subjection
to Arimanius for seven thousand years ; after this space
of time he is to surrender back the world to the ligrht."
Here we see the four notions that I speak ofin the fore
going work: 1. A state before good and evil were
blended and confounded together. 2. A state after
they were so blended and confounded. 3. A state when
evil shall be entirely destroyed. 4. A middle god be
tween the good and the evil principle.
As the doctrine of the Persian magi is a sequel of
the doctrine of the Indian Brachmans, we must con
sult the 'one to put the other in a clear light. We have
but few traces left of the ancient theology ofthe Gym-
nosophists, yet those, which Strabo has preserved, sup
pose the two states of the world that of nature in its
purity, and that of nature corrupted. When this his-
Of the Pagans. 381
torian has described the life and manners ofthe Brach-
mans, he adds, " Those philosophers look upon the
state of men in this life to be like that of children in
their mother's womb ; death, according to their no
tion, being a birth to a true and a happy life. They
believe, that whatever happens to mortals here, does
not deserve the name either of good or evil. They have
many notions in common with the Greeks ; and like
them believe that the world had a beginning, and will
have an end , and that God who made it, and governs
it, is every where present to his work." The same au
thor goes on in this manner : " Onesecritus being sent
by Alexander the Great to inform himself of the life,
manners and doctrine of those philosophers, found a
Brachman, named Calanus, who taught him the follow
ing principles. Formerly plenty reigned over all na
ture ; milk, wine, honey and oil, flowed from foun
tains ; but men having made an ill use of this felicity,
Jupiter deprived them of it, and condemned them to
labor for the sustenance of their lives."
In order to form a better judgment of the doctrine of
the ancient Gymnosophists, I have consulted what has
been translated of the Vedam, which is the sacred book
of the modern Bramins. Though its antiquity be not
perhaps so great as it is affirmed to be, yet there is no
denying that it contains the ancient traditions of those
people, and of their philosophers. It is plain by this
book," that the Bramins acknowledge one sole and su
preme God, whom they call Vistnou ; that his first and
most ancient production was a secondary god named
Brama, whom the supreme God formed out of a flower
that floated upon the surface of the great deep before
the formation of the world : and that Vistnou after
49
382 Of the Mythology
wards, on account of Brama's virtue, gratitude, and fi
delity, gave him power to form the universe." -They
believe moreover, " that souls are_ eternal emanations
from the divine Essence, or at least that they were pro
duced long before the formation ofthe world ; that they
were originally in a state of purity, but having sinned,
were thrown down into the bodies of men, or ofbeasts,
according to their respective demerits ; so that the bo
dy, where the soul resides, is a sort of dungeon or pris
on." Lastly, they hold, that " after a certain number
of transmigrations, all souls shall be re-united to their
origin, re-admitted into the company of the gods, and
deified."
I should hardly have thought these traditions authen
tic, or have brought myself to trust to the translators of
the Vedam, if this doctrine had not been perfectly
agreeable to that of Pythagoras, which I gave an ac
count of a little before. This philosopher taught the
Greeks nothing but what he had learned from the
Gymnosophists.
The discovery of these uniform and agreeing senti
ments in Greece, Egypt, Persia, and the Indies, made
me desirous to advance farther into the East, and to
carry my researches as far as China. I applied myself
accordingly to such as understood the language of that
country, had spent several years in it, and were well
versed in the original books ofthat nation. And in this
point particularly I have made great use of the informa
tion I have received from a gentleman of a superior gen
ius, who does not care to be mentioned, till he has
published a large work upon these matters which will
be ofservice to religion and do honor to human under
standing. In the nieaa time he has allowed me to pub
Of the Pagans. 383
lish the following passages, which he translated him
self out of some ancient Chinese books that have been
brought into Europe, and which may be seen both at
Paris and at Rome ; so that all who understand the
language may judge of the faithfulness of the transla
tion. The ancient commentaries on the book Yking,
i.'e. the book of Changes, continually speak of a double
heaven, a primitive and a posterior. The first heaven
is there described in the following manner :
" All things were then in a happy state, every thing
was beautiful, every thing was good, all beings were
perfect in their kind. In this happy age, heaven and
earth employed tbeir virtues jointly to embellish nature.
There was no jarring in the elements, no inclemency
in the air, all things grew without labor ; an universal
fertility reigned every where. The active and passive
virtue conspired together, without any effort or opposi
tion, to produce and perfect the universe." In the
books which the Chinese call King or Sacred, we read
the following passage:—"Whilst the first state of
heaven lasted, a pure pleasure and a perfect tranquility
reigned over all nature. There were neither labor, nor
pains, nor sorrow, nor crimes. Nothing made opposi
tion to the will of man." The philosophers who stuck
to these ancient traditions, and particularly Tchou-
angse, say, " That in the state ofthe first heaven man
was united inwardly to the supreme Reason, and that
outwardly he practised all the works ofjustice. The
heart rejoiced in truth, and there was no mixture of
falsehood ; then the four seasons of the year succeeded
each other regularly without confusion. There were
no impetuous winds, nor excessive rains ; the sun and
the moon, without ever being clouded, furnished a light
384 Of the Mythology
purer' and brighter than at present. The five planets
kept on their course without any inequality. There was
nothing which did harm to man, or which suffered
any hurt from him. An universal amity and harmony
reigned overall nature.''
Qn the other hand, the philosopher Hoainantse,
speaking of the latter heaven, says, " The pillars of
heaven were broken ; the earth was shaken to its
very foundations ; the heavens sunk lower towards the
north ; the sun, the moon, and the stars changed their
motions ; the earth fell to pieces : the waters inclosed
within its bosom burst forth with violence, and over
flowed it. Man rebelling against heaven, the system
of the universe was quite disordered ; the sun was
eclipsed, the planets altered their course, and the uni
versal harmony was disturbed." The philosophers
Wentse and Lietse, who lived long before Hoainantse,
express themselves almost in the same terms—" The
universal fertility of nature, say these ancient authors,
degenerated into an ugly barrenness ; the plants fa
ded, the trees withered away, disconsolate nature re
fused to distribute her usual bounty. All creatures
declared war against one another ; miseries and
crimes overflowed the face of the earth." All these
evils arose, says the book Liki, from man's despising
the supreme Monarch of the universe. He would
needs dispute about truth and falsehood, and these
disputes banished the eternal Reason. He then fixed
his looks on terrestrial ohjects, and loved them in ex
cess ; hence arose the passions ; he became gradual
ly transformed into the objects he loved, and the ce
lestial reason entirely abandoned him. Such was
the original source of all crimes, which drew after
Of ike Pagans. 385
them all manner of miseries sent by Heaven for the
punishment thereof."
The same books speak of a time when every thing-
is to be restored to its first splendor, by the com ing of
a hero called Kiun Tse, which signifies shepherd and
prince, to whom they give likewise the names of the
most Holy, the universal Teacher and the supreme
Truth. He answers exactly to the Mythras of the
Persians, the Orus, or second Osiris, of the Egypt
ians, the Apollo or Mercury of the Greeks, and the
Brama ofthe Indians.
The Chinese books speak likewise of the sufferings
and conflicts of Kiun Tse, just as the Persians do of
the combats ofMythras, the Egyptians of the murder
of Osiris, theTyrians of the death of Adonis, and the
Greeks ofthe labors and painful exploits of a son of
Jupiter, who came down upon earth to exterminate
monsters. It looks as if the source of all these allego
ries was an ancient tradition common to all nations,
that the middle god was not to expiate and put an end
tocrimes but by his own great sufferings. In speaking of
the death ofAdonis in the foregoing work, I have made
advantage of this tradition, to pave the way for what
Daniel says afterwards to Cyrus concerning the suf
fering Messiah. I shall her* give the reader an ac
count of what I find in the religion of the Tyrians, and
in the doctrine of the ancients, to authorise the new
allegory which is added to the present edition. 1.
The Tyreans acknowledged one supreme God, named
Bel, who is the same with the Jehovah of the He
brews. 2. They held likewise a subordinate god
whom they called Thamuz, Adon, Adonis, which sig
nifies the Lord. 3. Adonis, Osiris, Apollo and Her-
386 Ofthe Mythology
cules are the same. 4. The death of Adonis, killed
by a boar, is the same with the murder of Osiris,
slain by Typhon, or the evil principle. 5. Solemn
days were instituted by the Phenicians to bewail
the death of Adonis, and to sing praises to him
as risen from the dead. 6. Some ancient and
venerable writers among the Christians believed,
that the fable of Adonis was a corrupution of an od
tradition concerning the suffering Messiah, and apply
all the Tyrian ceremonies to our mysteries. 7. Ado
nis loved Venus, espoused her, and she became the
mother of the gods. 8. Urania, Astarte, Venus and
Proserpine, are the same goddess. 9. Some think
that Astarte is the morning star, Lucifer, or a fallen
star. 10. According to the doctrine ofthe ancients, as
well Pagan as Hebrew, spirits fell not at once, but byde
grees, that is to say, from the fixedstars into the region
ofthe planets, from the planetsto theearth, and from the
earth to the infernal regions. For which reason I have
represented these three different falls of spirits by the
three names of Astarte, Venus and Proserpine. These
are the foundations on which I have built the allegory
of Adonis and Urania, which Amenophis rehearses to
Cyrus in the Seventh Book. The only liberty I have
taken, is to make Urania represent not the divine Wis
dom, but fallen intelligences ; as Psyche in Apuleius
does not represent the soul of the world, but souls un
faithful to love. These kinds ef metonymy are fre
quent in the allegorical and mythological writers.
We see then that the doctrines of the primitive per
fection of nature, its fall, and its restoration by a di
vine hero, are eqally manifest in the mythologies of the
Greeks, Egyptians, Persians, Indians, and Chinese.
Of the Pagans. 38T
Let us now look into the Hebrew mythology. By
this I mean Rabbinism, or the philosophy of the Jew
ish doctors, and particularly of the Essenes. These
philosophers asserted, according to the testimony of
Josephus, " that the literal sense of the sacred text
was only an image of hidden truths. They changed,
says Philo, the words and precepts of wisdom into al
legories, after the custom of their ancestors, who had
left them several books for their instruction in this sci
ence." It was the universal taste of the Orientals to
make use of corporeal images to represent the proper
ties and operations of spirits.
This symbolical style seems in a great measure au
thorised by the sacred writers. The prophet Daniel
represents God to us under the image ofthe Ancient of
Days. The Hebrew mythologists and cabalists, who
were a succession of the school of the Essenes, took
occasion from hence to express the divine attributes by
the members of the body of the Ancient ofDays. We
see this allegory carried to extravagance in the books
of the Rabbins. They speak there of the dew that
distilled from the brain of the Ancient ofDays, from
his skull, his hair, his forehead, his eyes, and especial
ly from his wonderful beard. These comparisons are
undoubtedly absurd, and unbecoming the majesty of
God. But the cabalistical philosophers pretend to
authorise them by some metaphysical notions.
The creation, according to them, is a picture of the
divine perfections. All created beings are consequent
ly images'more or less perfect of the supreme Being,
in proportion as they have more or less conformity with
their original. Hence it follows, that all creatures are
in some respect like one another, and that man, or the
388 Of the Mythology
microcosm, has a resemblance of the great world or
macrocosm ; the material world, of the intelligible
world ; and the intelligible world, of the archetype,
which is God. Such are the principles upon which
the allegorical expressions of the cabalists are founded
If we strip their mythology of this mysterious language,
we shall find in it sublime notions, very like those we
have before admired in the heathen philosophers. I
sha:; mention four, which are clearly enough expressed
in the works ofthe Rabbin Irira, Moschech and Jitzack,
which Rittangelins has translated in his Cabala Denu-
data .
1. " All spiritual substances, angels, human souls,
and even the soul of the Messiah, were created from
the beginning of the world ; and consequently our first
parent, of whom Moses speaks, represents, not an in
dividual person, but all mankind governed by one sole
head. In that primitive state every thing was glori
ous and perfect ; there was nothing in the universe
thatsuffered, because there was no such thing as crime.
Nature was a real and a spotless image of the divine
perfections." This answers to the reign of Amnion,
Oromazes and Saturn. 2. " The soul of the Messiah,
by his perseverance in the divine love, came, to a strict
union with the pure Godhead, and was deservedly ad
vanced to be the King, the Head and Guide of all spir
its." This notion has some resemblance of those which
the Persians had of Mythras, the Egyptians of Osiris
and Orus, and the Greeks ofJupiter the guide, who led
souls into the super celestial abode. 3. " The virtue,
perfection and beatitude of spirits, or zephirots, consist
ed in continually receiving and rendering back the rays
which flowed from the infinite centre, that so there
Of the Pagatis. 389
might be an eternal circulation'oflight and happiness in
all spirits. Two sorts of zephirots failed in the observ
ance of this eternal law.
The cherubims, who were of a superior order, did
not render back this light, but kept it within themselves,
swelled, and became like vessels that are too fujl ; at
last they burst in pieces, and their sphere was changed
into a gloomy chaos. The Ischims, who were of an in
ferior order, shut their eyes against this light, turning
themselves towards sensible objects ; they forgot the
supreme beatitude of their nature, and took up with
the enjoyment of created pleasures. They fell thereby
into mortal bodies. 4. Souls pass through several rev
olutions, before they return to their primitive state : but
after the coming of the Messiah, all spirits will be re
stored to order, and to the happiness which they enjoy
ed before the sin of our first parent." I shall now leave
the reader to judge whether these four notions have not
a great resemblance of those which we have found in
China, Persia, Egypt and Greece, and whether I have
not had sufficient authority to give the four mythologi
cal pictures which are in the foregoing work.
In all these systems we see that the ancient philoso-
pl ers, in order to refute the objections of the impious
concerning the origin and duration of evil, adopted the
doctrine of the pre-existence of souls, and their final
restoration. Several fathers of the church have main
tained the first opinion, as the only philosophical way of
explaining original sin ; and Origen made use of the
latter, to oppose the libertines of his time. It is far
from my intention to defend these two opinions ; all the
use I would make of them is to shew, that reason alone
50
390 Of the Mythology
furnishes arguments sufficient to confound such philos
ophers as refuse to believe, unless they can comprehend.
It is for this reason that I make Daniel speak a dif
ferent language from Eleazar. Tie prophet advises
Cyrus to lay aside all refined speculations, and to leave
to God the care ofjustifying the incomprehensible steps
ofhis providence : he plunges him again in an obscurity
more wholesome, and more suitable to human weak
ness, than all the conjectures of philosophers ; he re
duces what we are to believe on this subject to these
four principal truths.
1. God being infinitely good, cannot produce wick
ed and miserable beings ; and therefore the moral and
physical evil, which we see in the universe, must come
from the abuse that men make of their liberty. 2. Hu
man nature is fallen from the first purity in which it
was created ; and this mortal life is a state of trial, in
which souls are cured of their corruption, and merit a
happy immortality by their virtue. 3. God united him
selfto human nature, in order to expiate moral evil by
his sacrifice. The Messiah will come at last in his glo
ry to destroy physical evil, and renew the face of the
earth. 4. These truths have been transmitted to us
from age to age, from the time of the deluge till now,
by an universal tradition ; other nations have obscur
ed and altered this tradition by their fables ; it has been
preserved in its purity no where but in the holy scrip
tures, the authority of winch cannot be disputed with
any shadow of reason.
It is a common notion, that all the footsteps of nat
ural and revealed religion, which we see in the hea
then poets and philosophers, are originally owing to
their having read the books of Moses ; but it is impossi
ble to answer the objections which are made against.
Ofthe Par/ans. 391
this opinion. The Jews and their books were too
long concealed in a corner of the earth, to be reasona
bly thought the primitive light of the Gentiles. We
must go father back, even to the deluge. It is sur
prising that those, who are convinced of the authority
ofthe sacred books, have not made advantage of this
system, to prove the truth of the Mosaic history con
cerning the origin of the world, the universal deluge,
and the re-peopling of the earth by Noah. It is hard
to account for that uniformity of sentiments which we
find in the religions of all nations, otherwise than by
the doctrine which I have put in the mouth of
Daniel.
As the four great principles which I have mentioned
are the foundation ofour religion, my design was to do
homage to it, by endeavoring to defend them against
the vain cavils of audacious critics, and the supersti
tious prejudices of weak minds. One of the chief
sources of modern incredulity, is the false notion which
impious men have entertained of Christianity. Nor,
indeed, can we think it strange, if, while the Christian
mysteries are represented in a wrong light, the prin
ciples of religion confounded with the abuses of those
principles, and scholastic expositions with doctrines of
faith, the miracles should pass for imposture, and the
facts for fables. If we would engage those, who in
simplicity of heart seek after truth, to listen to the
proofs of revealed religion, we must begin by shewing
them that its doctrines are worthy of God ; and this
has been my aim throughout the foregoing work.—
Whether I have succeeded or not, my intention was
upright ; and I shall not repine at the imperfection of
this attempt, if I may have given occasion to any
392 Ofthe Mythology 8(c.
person of more learning and depth to recommend
that philosophy, which teaches never to employ the
imagination bat as the servant of reason, to direct all
improvements of the understanding to the purifica
tion of the heart, and, avoiding all ostentatious parade
of the sciences, to make use ofthem only to discover
the beauties of eternal truth to those who are capa
ble of being enamored with them.
A LETTER,
From M. Freret, Member of the Academy of Inscrip
tions at Paris, to the Author, concerning the Chronol
ogy ofhis Work.
SIR,
THERE have, perhaps, been more different
systems formed, to settle the history of Cyrus, and the
chronology of the kings of Babylon, than for any oth
er part of ancient story. But these hypotheses are
all so defective, and so ill connected with contempo
rary events, that we are stopped almost at every step
by the contradictions and inconsistencies we meet with
in them. This every man's experience shews him to
be true, who reads the writings of Scaliger, Petau,
Usher, Marsham, the bishop of Meaux, and Pri-
deaux.
But in your work you have wisely avoided these dif
ficulties, and have hit upon the best method of recon
ciling the contradictory accounts which Herodotus,
Ctesias, Xenophon, and other ancient writers, give
us of Cyrus. You have preserved this prince's war
with his grandfather, Astyages ; a war which the an
cients allow to be certain, and which Xenophon him- .
self acknowledges in his retreat of the ten thousand ;
he suppresses this fact in his Cyropedia, only to avoid
throwing a blemish on Cyrus's character, by a war
which he thought contrary to natural duty : Prideaux,
has likewise thought fit to suppress it. Marsham has
invented a mere romance, and supposes that there
were two different kingdoms of the Medes, which
394 M. Frerets Letter.
were at the same time governed by two Astyages's, one
the grandfather and the other the enemy of Cyrus.—
The method you have taken is more simple, and more
agreeable to ancient story ; you have paved the way
for this war, and conducted it in such a manner, that
it does in no wise stain the character of -your hero.
The omission of so considerable an event led Xeno-
phon into two anachronisms, in order to find employ
ment for Cyrus in his younger years. This author
antedates the taking of Sardis twentyfive years,
and that of Babylon twenty-eight. As this historian
bad nothing in view but military virtues, and the qual
ities of a true patriot, whereby to form his hero, his
scheme did not furnish him with the same materials to
fill up Cyrus's youth as yours does. He had no thoughts
of instilling into his mind such principles, as would
most effectually secure him from the dangers which be
set the virtue of princes, or of guarding him before
hand against the corruption of false politics, and false
philosophy, which are, in their consequences, equal
ly fatalto society. Xenophon, having been educated
in Greece, was acquainted only with the kingdoms of
Sparta and Macedon, whose kings were, properly
speaking, nothing more than the chief persons in their
State ; and the magistrates were rather their colleague^
than their ministers. He had no notion of the abuses
ofdespotic power, and therefore could have no thoughts
of preventing them : whereas your design being to
form a king, rather than a conqueror, a prince better
qualified to make his people happy under his govern
ment than to force them to submit to his laws ; you are
thereby enabled to give Cyrus full employment in his
M. Prefers Letter. 395
youth, by making him travel, and that very consistent
ly with true chronology. ,
Cyrus died the 218th year of Nabonassar, and 530
years before the Christian era, which 1 shall not loso
time in proving, because acknowledged by all chronol-
ogers. This prince was then seventy years of age, ac
cording to Dinon, tlic author of a celebrated history
of Persia. He was therefore born in the 148th year
of Nabonassar, 600 or 599 years before Christ. He
had reigned, according to the astronomical canon, nine
years at Babylon. This city was therefore taken in the
sixty-first year of his age, the 209th of Nabonassar,
and the 539th before Christ.
Sardis was taken, according to Sosicrates in Dio
genes Laertius, and according to Solinus, in the fourth
year of the 58th Olympiad ; but according to Eusebius,
in the first year of that Olympiad ; and consequently,
either in the 545th or 548th year before Christ, and the
fifty-second or fifty-fifth year of Cyrus's life. He reign
ed thirty years over the Medes and Persians, according
to Herodotus and Ctesias, and he was forty years old.
according to Dinon, when he mounted the throne;
which fixes the beginning of his reign to the 188th year
of Nabonassar, the first year of the 55th Olympiad, and
the 560th year before Christ. Eusebius tells us, that
all chronologists agreed in placing the beginning of Cy
rus's reign over the Medes and Persians in this year of
the 55th Olympiad. But historians have neither told
us how many years Cyrus's war with the Medes lasted,
nor any particulars of what happened in the first forty
years of his life ; you arc therefore at full liberty to fill
up this space with whatever you judge most proper to
your design; and your chronology is not only agreeable
896 M. Frerefs Letter.
to that of the Greeks and Persians, but likewise to that
of the Babylonians.
Xenophon indeed has changed all this chronology.
According to him, Cyrus went to the court of Media at
twelve years, stayed there four years, returned in his
sixteenth year, entered into the class of the £$„?•<, or
young men, in his seventeenth, and continued in it ten
years. To which he adds, that Astyages died in this
interval, but this is not true ; for that prince reigned
till he was conquered by Cyrus in the year 560, and
did not die till some years after. You have therefore
done well in not following Xenophon. According to
him, Cyrus entered Media at the head of three hundred
thousand men when he was twenty-eight years of age ;
subdued the Armenians at twenty-nine ; marched
against the Lydians and took Sardis at thirty ; and
made himself master of Babylon at thirty-three, about
the year 567. This is the 179th year of Nabonassar,
and the 36th of Nabuchodonosor, who reigned seven
years after it ; these seven years added to the twenty-
one years of the four kings who reigned in Babylon af
ter him, make the twenty-eight years of the anachron
ism above-mentioned. The rest of Xehophon's chronol
ogy is of no importance to your work. He does not
determine the time of the death either of Mandane
orCambyses, and you are, therefore, entirely at liberty
to place these events as will best suit with your plan.
The city of Tyre was not taken till the 19th year of
Nabuchodonosor, after a thirteen years siege, which
began the seventh of that prince's reign, according to
the Phenician annals which Josephus had read. In the
year Jerusalem was taken, which was the eighteenth of
fVabuchodonosor, the prophet Ezekiel threatens Tyre
M. Frerets Letter. 397
with approaching ruin ; it therefore was not taken at
that time ; Cyrus was then fifteen years of age : Now,
as his travels are all placed between the 28th and 32d
year ofhis age, and as he does not go to Tyre till after
his travels in Greece, you are guilty of no anachronism
in this particular ; moreover, what you relate of the
history of this city, sufficiently fills up the fifteen or
sixteen years, from the time of its being conquered by
the Babylonians.
We have no where any express passage, whereby to
fix the time ofNabuchodonosor's madness ; that he was
mad, is certain from Daniel, and it is very probable it
happened towards the end of his life ; my reasons for it
are these : Jehoiachin was carried into captivity in the
eighth yearof Nabuchodonosor's reign overJudea, and
the fourth of bis reign in Babylon ; that is., the 148th
year of Nabonassar, 600 years before Christ, and the
year Cyrus was born. We are told in Jeremiah, and
in the second book of Kings, that in the 37th year of
Jehoiachin's captivity, Evilmerodach ascended the
throne of Babylon, took Jehoiachin out of prison, ad
mitted him to his own table, and heaped many honors
upon him ; this was the 184th year of Nabonassar, the
564th before Christ, and the 37th of Cyrus's age ; at
which time Nabuchodonosor was yet alive, since he
did not die till the 186th of Nabonassar, 562 years be
fore Christ, and the 39th of Cyrus ; Evilmerodach
therefore did not only mount the throne in his father's
life-time, but he governed without consulting him, and
with so little dependence upon him, as not to fear pro
voking him by taking quite different measures from his,
and heaping honors on a prince whom his father had
all along kept in fetters. Berosus makes the prince,
51
39S M. FrerePs Letter.
whom he calls Evilmerodach, to have reigned ten years;
tie astronomical canon allows him but two, and calls
him Ilovarodam ; the scripture places him upon the
throne three years before the death of his father.
All tliese difficulties will vanish, if ve suppose tl;at
Nabuchodonosor's madness began eight years before
his death, and that his son Evilmorodach was from
that time looked upon as king, placed himself at the
head of affairs, and governed the empire with his fath
er's ministers ; these eight years, joined with the two
he reigned alone after his father's death, make up the
ten years of Berosus ; the holy scriptures begin his
reign later, doubtless from the time that he removed
the ministers wi o made him uneasy, which did not
happen till the third year before the death of Nabu-
chodonosor. This prince's madness continued but
seven years; after that time he recovered his senses,
re-assumed the government, and published an edict
in favor of the Jews, which is related in Daniel ; his
name had all along been made use of in the public
acts, and for this reason the astronomical canon makes
his son Ilovarodam to have reigned but two years;
this canon was drawn up from the public acts. Nab
uchodonosor's madness must have produced great
revolutions in the court of Babylon, and we may form
an idea of them from what passed in the coutt of
Fiance during that of Charles VI. when the manage
ment of affairs was one while lodged in the hands of
the queen, sometimes in those of her children, and at
other times in those of the great lords and princes of
the blood. Upon this supposition, which is both ea
sy and necessary, Nabucbodonoser's madness would
have.happened in the 179th year of Nabonassar, the
M> Freret's letter. 399
569th before Christ, and 32d of Cyrus's age ; this
prince must have been informed of that event, for it
was of great importance to him to know it ; it is not
to be doubted but it had its influence in the war ofthe
Medes and Persians. The kings of Babylon were
allied to those of the Medes ; Nabuchodonosor had
married a daughter of Astyages ; the Babylonians
would have taken some part in this war, had it not
been for the weakness of their government, occasioned
by the king's madness, and for the divisions which
prevailed at court among the different parties that
contended for the direction of affairs. Nay, it is prob
able that queen Amytis endeavored to reconcile the
Medes and Persians; because, independently of the
ties of blood, it was against her interest to have either
of those nations subdue the other. The sight of so
famous a conquorer, reduced to so deplorable a condi
tion, must have been a very proper spectacle for the
instruction of Cyrus, and you had great reason not to
neglect it. He returned from his travels, according to
your chronology, about the 22d year of his age, after
Nabuchodonosor's madness had already seized him.—
Cyrus spent near seven years in Persia, governing un
der his father ; during; which time all the intrigues
between Cyaxares and Soranes were carried on.—
Cambyses made war with the Medes, and Astyages
died ; after which Cyrus went to Babylon, to negoti
ate affairs with Amytis, a little before Nabuchodono
sor's madness left him ; this time was judiciously cho
sen to make the sight more affecting and instructive.
Your chronology with regard to political affairs, and
the revolutions which happened in Cyrus's time,ist!sere-
fore perfectly agreeableto thatofthe Greeks, Babyloni
400 M. Frerefs Letter.
ans and Hebrews ; let us now enquire whether the great
men, whom you make Cyrus to have seen in his trav
els, were his cotemporaries ; you may indeed be al
lowed a greater liberty in this case than in the former.
You know how the ancients contradict one another
with regard to the time when Zoroaster lived ; which
doubtless proceeds from hence, that the name of Zo
roaster was given to all those who, at different times,
reformed the religion of the magi. The last of these
was the most famous, and is the only one who is known
by that name, or by the name of Zardouscht, in the
East. Prideaux makes him contemporary with Cam-
byses and Darius the son of Hystaspes, but it is
very probable he lived some time before them. The
Orientals, as may be seen in Dr. Hyde's work, make
him to have liveed under Gustaspes or Hystaspes, the
father of Aarba, who is the first Darius according to
the Greeks. This Gustaspes was older than Cyrus,
and may have been the same person whom you
make his governor : whence it necessarily follows,
that the reformation of the religion of the magi must
have been made during his reign, and that Zoroas-
aster lived at that time. The reformation made by-
Darius supposes that the magi had assumed to them
selves very great authority which he took away from
them. He likewise corrupted the purity of Zoroas
ter's religion, by a mixture of foreign idolatry. In
his reign the worship of Anaitis was first brought in
to Persia, contrary to the hypothesis of Dr. Prideaux .
Your scheme is more agreeable to the course of the
history, and to those facts which are common to the
Greeks,Persians, and Arabian writers.
M. Freret's Letter. 401
Cyrus may have married Cassandana at eighteen
years ofage, and have lived with her nine or ten years ;
so that he may have travelled into Egypt about the
twenty-ninth year of his age. Your chronology agrees
exactly with the age of Amasis. All chronologists
concur in fixing the end of his reign to the year before
Cambyses's expedition, that is, about the 525th year
before Christ, and the 63d Olympiad. Herodotus
makes his reign to have lasted forty-four years ; and
consequently places the beginning of it in the 569th
year before Christ, and the 32d Olympiad, and about
the 30th year of Cyrus. Diodorus indeed, who makes
Amasis to have reigned fifty-five years, supposes that
he ascended the throne in the 579th or 580th year be
fore Christ, and the 20th year of Cyrus's age. But
these two opinions are easily reconciled. Herodotus
begins Amasis's reign at the end of the revolution
which placed him on the throne, and Diodorus at the
beginning of his revolt.
Apries must have lived but a little time after the ta
king ofJerusalem, since the prophet Jeremiah foretels
his death under the name of Pharaoh Hophra, as
what was soon to happen. Jerusalem was taken in
the year 589 before Christ, and the 63d before Ama
sis' death, which shews that the troubles in Egypt
were already begun. According to your system, Am
asis governed all Egypt in tranquility when Cyrus went
thither, and Apries had already been dead several
years ; which is agreeable both to profane and sacred
history, Cyrus being between twenty-eight and thirty
years of age when he travelled.
The Greek chronology indeed will not be so easily
reconciled to yours, but the anachronism will not ex
402 M. Freret's Letter.
ceed twelve or fonrteen.years. Chilo was, according
to Hermippus, as quoted by Diogenes Laertius, ad
vanced in age at the time of the 52d Olympiad. This
Olympiad began in the 573d year before Christ, and
ended in the 57th Olympiad, which was the 30th of
Cyrus. This was before his Ephorate, which Pam-
phyla places in the 56th Olympiad ; but this passage
is manifestly corrupted. The anonymous author of
the chronology of the Olympiads fixes the time of the
magistracy of Chilo to that of the archbishop of the
Euthydemes at Athens, that is, to the 81st year before
Xerxes passage into Asia, according to the chronolo
gy of the Arundelian marbles. This was the 561st
year before Christ, and the 38th of Cyrus, which
agrees perfectly well with your chronology, for Cyrus
might have seen Chilo eight years before, as he went
to Sparta, and when he was thirty years of age.
Pcriander died, according to Sosicrates, at the end
of the 48th Olympiad, the 585th year before Christ,
and the 16th of Cyrus. The ancients tell us he had
reigned forty years, and began to flourish about the
38th Olympaid. You postpone his death eleven or
twelve years ; but as you do this only to make Cyrus
a witness of his desperate death, the anachronism is a
beauty, and is otherwise oftittle importance.
Pisistratus's reign over the Athenians did not begin
till 560 years before Christ, 71 before the battle of
Marathon, according to Thucydides, and one hun
dred before the tyranny of the four hundred at Athens.
Cyrus was then forty years old, so that your anachro
nism here is only of nine or ten years And with re
gard to Solon, you are guilty of no anachronism at
all. His archonship, and his reformation of the gov
M. FrereVs Letter. 403
arnment of Athens, were in the year 597 before
Christ, and the third year of the 46th Olympaid.—
He spent a considerable time in travelling, and did
not return to Athens till he was advanced in years,
which would not suffer him to be concerned in public
affairs any more. He died at the age of eighty years,
in the second year of Pisistratus"s reign, according to
Phanias ofEresa, and in the 41st year of Cyrus, who
might therefore have conversed with him nine or ten
years before.
You ought likewise to give yourself as little concern
about the bringing Pythagoras and Cyrus together.
Dionysius Halicarnassensis tells us, that the former
went into Italy about the 50th Olympiad, that is, about
the 577th year before Christ. He makes use of the
word Xu.ia, (about) which shews that this date need not
be strictly taken. And indeed Diogenes Laerties
shews us, that he flourished about the 60th Olympiad,
that is, about forty years after, which, if we understand
it of the time ofhis death, which was at the age of eghty,
he will then have been fifty years old when he went
into Italy, and he will appear to have been born about
the 520th year before Christ. If Pythagoras the phi
losopher be the same with him who offered to fight at the
Olympic games among the children, and upon being
rejected, desired to be received among the men, and
gained the prize in the 48th Olympiad ; he was sixteen
or seventeen in the year 585 before Christ, and was
scarce older than Cyrus. This is the opinion of Dr.
Bentley, who is able to defend himself against all the
objections which have been made to him. But with
out entering into this dispnte, it is sufficient for your
vindication, that Pythagoras was returned from his
404 M. Freret's Letter.
travels, and capable ofconferring with Cyrus when this
prince went into Greece, in the year 565 before Christ,
which cannot be denied in any of the different systems
which the learned have formed concerning the time of
Pythagoras's life.
You have likewise sufficient foundation for bringing
him into a dispute with Anaximander. This philoso
pher must have seen Pythagoras, though he was older
than him, being, acoording to Apollodorus in Diogenes
Laertius, sixty-four years of age in the second year of
the 48th Olympiad, that is, in the year 585before Christ.
And it is likewise a beauty in your work to see the
young Pythagoras triumphing over the sophistry of the
Materialist. It is not to be doubted but the Milesian
philosopher was the first inventor ofthe doctrines ofthe
Atomists ; as Aristotle, Cicero, Plutarch and Simpli-
cius testify. TheT» A«-«f«»of Anaximander was an in
finite matter : his doctrine is the same with that of Spi
noza.
You see, Sir, that complaisance had no part in my
approbation of the chronology of your book ; you were
not obliged to adhere so scrupulously to truth, you
might have contented yourself with probability ; the
nature of your work did not require more. Neverthe
less, this exactness will, I am persuaded, give it new
beauties in the opinion of those who are versed in 'an
cient history. Exactness is not incompatible with a
fine imagination ; and it degenerates into dryness only,
when a writer is of a cold and heavy genius.
I am, &c
FRERET.
