{"name":"The Book Of Miracles","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1817__parkins___the_book_of_miracles.pdf","mytitle":"The Book Of Miracles","mylang":"de"}
PREFACE.
CouaTaou1 RaADEa,
I now take this opportlmity of laying before you for your
benefit, this most useful and curious book, which now
atanda unrivalled in the whole world, and "'hich will give
you all that information which may be of the greatest im-
pertance, both to yo•, yourfamily, andfrie11ds; which may
also be the happy meam of saving you and them from most
ofthepniu, dangers, accidents, and common miseries ofthis
rue, which have heretofore brought so many to their ruin
and destruction, an<l also to an unlimel!Igrave; shewing you,
also, how you may obtain all the necessary blessings and
comforts of this life, with health of body, peace ofmind,
pro.perily, pleasure, JUJppiness, nnd felicily, both in this
world, and also in that which is to come, and by daily pre-
eenting this most useful and valuable book to the view and
constant perusal of your friends, acquaintances, &c. you may
thus become a blessing unto all round aboutyou; and ifyou
are also inclined to use the same as a canvasing bo?k, and
daily collect orders for the same; then, in tlaat case, you
shall receive one sl•illing from me, for e,-ery single order
you may thus procure, obtain, bring, or may at any
~me se>1d ltere unto this our office out of the same, which
·' 2
PBBFACI.
d enable you to lamtain and support younelf and your
&mily, and will give you plenty of money in the worst of
times; you n1
ay also perhaps gain/011r or jive shillingJ by
thia means every time you go amongst any parties either of
pleasure or business, or even in any company, at any time
whatsoever, which willalsoenableyou to pay your debts, and
also your rent and taxes, which will also enable you to live
happy a'!d camfortable ;ill the remaining days of your life,
while yon are thus doing so much good in the world, thus
aviot so many respectable fumilies from ruin and destruc-
tion, and from an untimely grave ; and I will also pay unto
7oa all the mone,, that may be due unto you, (for orders
a.:e&.ed by me from your i'lllhulry, &c.) whenever yoo
may either come or senca11Dto me for the aame at any
time whatsoever, giving unto you also at the same time,
mu power and authority to give, transmit, and present, all
thme great favours and pecuniary ad\'antagcs and most
beneficial offices unto any of your friends or acquaintances
700 may at aby time think proper to engage in thi9 mOlt U.
poatant business, who are residing in any part of England,
Ireland, Scotland, or Wales. who may evc:r wish or desire
to receive the great benefits of the same at any time what-
toever; for a ll!lttr post paid,'" will always con1e safe to my
ltandl from any distance ; seeing that we ought always to do_
all the good we can while we live in the \Vorld, as ·we can
do nothing in the grave. In mean while, permit me to
ubort you lo daily glorify God rrom \Vhom all blessinis
jtow boll& spi,.1tual and temporal, and see that you also duly
• No''""• or pa,.~11 •·ill be receiTed nor taken in /tere, at usf
qjflu, cu,ep1 the llllllle be duly pOltpaid; neilbcr "ill any ord.tt- 4-r.
be eyer recel•etl here, until the same is duly 110idf111", as the m~oey
~
alwa19 be seat, either by the remittance of good bilh or poll-
ordn-•, at ••Ytime wba!Menr. •
AS
•
1$0K or MDtACLBI. 11
-'IlaGoa, by 8IMI in whele (NWer and llOtbority alonethe9e
LoM•, Int. daily perform all their malt wood&fol works
el operatiom, &c. (a) Male onefair 0ttd iflll'artial trial.
Thetrue intentand meaning of all these said holy "'11S6-
-tnltJtl U.n.1, Ice. is, that they bind them to their doty to
God, transform and convert the heathen and profligme
wotken ofiniquity to christianity, are waited on by angell,
fallr engage the most glorious army of Heaven into their
aenice; and also confer upon them a celestial a11gelic ifWi..
d/lle pat'd to always attend the bearer thereof, in order lb
defend rhem in the time ofdanger, and also to do all suc:la
thingsfor them BB is therein mentioned, which may beagree•
able to, and consistent with, the will of God. ('1) •
Thae nner-failing holy con1er.raled La•ens, &c. are
here made to do and perform any lawful subject, matter, or
!bing what~er 1bat is found to be agreeable to, andcon-
~ with, the will ofGod ; and are indeed a most valua-
ltle treasure, seeing that (when they are used according to
IDCb directione as are always delivered with the same) they
tomlly }ft"ent ruin, want, poverty, distress, bankruptcy,
npes, dluppoiutments in love, all rmh-t>IJy •arriagu, r•6~
Ii.Vi, mllrd~s, micides, with the best method toapprt:!&end
•and f*unilh all llaieves, ro/J/Jws, and swindlers of every de-
scription 1 md, in short, will give you whatever you may
hepe, wish fbr, and desire, agreeable to the will of heaven,
(c) at all times, and in all places whatsoever.
Tlt.e foll•r.uint is the gerreral Preface lo all 011r holy cn~
craled Lamen1, lire.
F'nt daily •edilale oa, uu1 frequently c.rami•e the fOl-
lowing IDCllt Yaluable portiOD1 of the holy scriptures, which
are I z in recorded for yombendit, (d) and see our Cabind
of WeaUI&, page 17. price sixpence; or, our Key to llw
F11e11a1fs Cr0fl1fl, pages 19, 63, which is also sold here.
(a) Matt. :xh:,26. Mark ix. 23, :x. 2'7. Luke:xvlii.~. Phll.iY 6.
ltlitm I. lf>, &:c. (&) Matt.s:riil. JO. Luke xt. JO. Psalmllcl. 11.
Rel>. I, 14. Tobit xii. 16. Heb.Iv. US. P.alm xxslv. 7. II Kiair- Ti,
16.16, 17, 18. Luke xvi. 22. (c) l\la1t. vii. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. Rom.
'lflB. at. (d) Deut. DJ:iil. 27. Psalm Ix. O, JO. lxlx. 16. Eaelr..
Drtl.8'7. J\fatt.xi.12. XY.26,26,27,~. l\l1trk vii.!6, 21,28. Ill.
"-:al. tt, 23, ~. Lnke lli. 5, 6, 7, 8, t, to, 1t. l'l, 13. xviii. 1, 2, 3,
4, 6,6, 7,8. I Thea. Y. 17. John :Xi'f. 13, 14 I ('_,or. XY•.S. Jamea L
40f, 7. IY. 8, 18. v.1•, lr.. I Peter Y. 7. Phil. ii 12, 13. i'f. I. Palm
I. 1&. Job. lli'f. 15. I John"· 14. l'roY. ll. 4 xtiii. 24. Jolua ll'f
D, lf. -.Om. sll. 10, 11, 12, 19, 20, 'll. '
A. 6
BOOK OF Mll\ACLES t1
for a:ompk, the late Dr. Sibly, had both Saturn and Jl•6
lOcated in the seventh house in his nativity, and the conse
queoce was this ; he bad two or three wives, bi;it c~ not
Jin with any of them. No person could have imagined or
thonght this to be the case, neither from his cmnmon eo11-
wr1ation, address, accomplishmenu, or his company; yet,
that unfortunate gentleman during the time that I was at
his house in Upper Titchfield Street, London, in the Y~
1796, he was then living in a state of separation from his
wife, whom I never aw allthe while I wasin town, though
he published his Illustration of the Occult Sciences, and
therein taught the art ofcalculating nativities ; yet, he never
wa able even 10 much as to make the attempt to remol'e
"11 ,,,;J.r, &c. out of the same, aa that most importantwork
4ioth require much higher branches of learning than either
IUJn, or any other utrologian in the whole kingdom ever
professed to know or undentand. Refllkr, you will please
to obaerve, that it it not my business to calculate nativities,
for I never did bring any ofthe directions up in any person'•
nativity at any time whatsoever, because it ls of no use to
burthen or aftlict the mind of any person whatsoever, with
a most dreadful prospect of future evi/1, &c. which ar~ yet
at a distance.-No, my buaioets is to remove them, and
sivethem a never-failing remedy for the same, which I
think doth answer a much better purpose,-though I caa
reatl the hea11ens at weU a1 I can read the Bible,'Which I do
when I please for my own amtunMnt, iutruclwn, and ia-
/Or11tati,oa, on any 11ubject, matter, or thing which I may
theo have in ha,ni. A certain tradesman, of the parish of
Manton, came to my houseon the fifth day of April, 18J6,
full of tellrs, he being in greet grief, sorrow, and afBiction,
who then informed me that his dearly beloved wife bad run
away with a tailor, who was also a married man : ·this un•
happy miserable deponent, most earnestly requested of me
to let him have one of our holy cons«Tated La.mens, in
order to oblige her to return to the arms of her most a.ffec-
tioaate husband ; but I was in a better disposition to have
1eat her two OI' three hundred milesanother way, for reaaons
beat known ~o myself; however, at length, after much per-
IUlllioo, he prevailed upon me to put him in possesaion of
this •01t 11aluahle articu, for which he paid me one guinea;
which presently brought both theseadulleroiufugiti11es home
'in, u all the iobabitaota of Marston can fully prove and
Ultify; and I am informed by report, that they now live
•
•
BOOK OF MlllA.CLBS. Zl
many me jmt for the me of obtaining my porlin; and
when he bath gained that point, I may tbeo perhaps do as
well as I can, and not as I would.-He may seaetly hide
fiom me all his evil propauities, fo.ulls, tl1ld failmgs; and
thusI may be deceived, even while I am so far eiigaged that
I cannot retract · so that my repmlance may come too late.
When;Imay als~auffermuch trouble and affliction by reasop
of my enemies· false reports, and a variety ofothercauses,
and being also liable, like other unfortunate females, to
be afflicted by a most fatal disease, which is explained in
the Celtstial Physician, (a book now eitant) called furor
ulmnus; or, the madness ofthelwomh ; which hath brought
so many thouiands of unhappy females to their c01111Jk~
raiin and destruction, and also to an 11ntimelygr411e; and
being also truly sensible of my own weakness and inability
to help or defend myself under any of these most alarming
and dreadful circumstances ·which have such a particular
eifect on mv spirits, that I am fearful of all these most
4fllicting and dangerous cata1trephes. Therefore I shall
pow be 1nuch obliged to you to take all those mh, acci-
dents, periu and dangers out of my nativity, by virtue rif
your art, which I suppose must be done by personal appli-
cation alone, according to the tenor of the following adver-
litement, viz,
Dr. Par/tin's Grand Celestial Arca1u1m,
For tlae fienefit ofthe lat6es in general, hy fJl'rsonal applica-
tion alone.
Which is a most special remedy and CMre for all
those who are in trouble and affliction, which mitigates
and prevents all unhappy marriages, insults, and violeoce
from all their enemies, together with the various evils, acci-
dents, perils, and dange1s that may ever be found in their na-
tivities, which hath heretofore brought so many thousands
ofunhappy and most unfortunate females to their ruin sod
destruction, and also to an untimely grave, which said af-
ftictions ftequen_
tly comesuddenly upon them lilze a thitfin
the night, while by this said divine art, these calamities, &c.
will be speedily and mosteffectually remo\·edand eradicated,
IO that by the same they will be most fully enabled to ob-
tain the blessings of health, prosperity, pl,asure, happiness,
and felicUy, both in this world, and also in that
whichis to come, for it is ofno use " lo lock the sta/;le door
wllln the horse is $to/en." As numerous most fatal exam-
11lea of this kind are daily set before us; and ~so ~,
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 27
me for that purpolle, for neither the vne nor the other law
are- or any use, while they are put in aue execution in •
proper manner aud form, as for instance: when Peter !"as
1*1into1'f'ison, and was thendelivered unto four quaternions
of'soldiers to keep him, (a) and was there sleeping between
two soldiers, being bound with two chains, and the keeper
etanding before the door, 'keeping him safe therein, even
while bis friends brought this their cause, and this matter
into this said celestial collrt; and the consequ~nce was, that
Peter was delivered out of that prison, :ind also from the
power and malice of his enemies, by that means alone; and
also, when the Syrian army came and surrounded a certain
citywith horses andAariots, and a great host, whichcame by
night, and compasled the city about, so that the servant
was exceedingly frightened and alarmed,t •bile he bad
el>tained a sight of the army of h<"auen, (b) who is able to
am9utr the whole world; and seeing that Eli:>ha .also, well
knew how to prosecute in this said cell=stial court, by tho
~•tabluhed laws ofheaven, which is always far. exalted and
dignified, even as much .above all the laws of every king-
dom in the world, as the heavens are exalted nnd elevated
above the earth ; and the consequence was, this great Syrian
army wa5 immediately smitten with blindness, aud was
delivered into the hands of this prophet. And again; Senr.a-
cherib, king of Assyria, came up with a very large army,
with full intent to destroy a certain city, but Hezekiah
also, knew how to present his cause in this said celestial
ceurt, which he did, instead of sending off for so many
troops ofhone, and so many regiments of foot soldiers to
defend both him and the city-in lieu thereof, he without
delay commanded the army o(heaven against them, and the
immediate consequence 'vas, that in that same night, there
was slain in the camp of the Assyrians, one hundred encl
tiglity:five thousand, and, behold, in the mornin&, they were
nllrltadcorpses. Herewas an uncommon slaughterperformed
by only one from the army ofheav~n aforesaid : (c) and, re~
~mber, as it was then, so it is now in these.days; for they
~ily ~ay in the church ofEngland, "As it was in the begin- ·
""'B u now, and ever shall be, u1orld u-ithoul t:nd• .Amen."
·l'here is no difference in the laws ofheaven now at this time,
(11) Act• xii.4, l'>,6, 7,S, 9, 10, 111 12, 13, 14, 16. (b) II Kings vi.
14, 1:>, 16, 17, 18. (c) 11 Kings xix. 9, 10, 141
11'>1 161
17, !201 23, 32,
33, ~· .Du. l•• 3~. Judgea Y. 20. baiab XXXTii. 36.- 11 Chrou.
llXSh. 8, tJ.
B2 •
BOOK OF MIRACLES.
wives: and also ho\v to enable you to overcome all yeur
public and private enemies, who ha\'e ever injured yoar per-
sn, prop~ty. character. or reputation, &c. at any time
whatsoever, in order to make you full satisfaction for the
88me. {«) And for your further benefit I would now wish
to ~ecommeud your attention
TO THE GUARDIAN OF THE fOOR.
From th~ Treasury nf II ifdom. ('6)
Seeing that it is now·well kno\\'11 that you arc continually
in the_greatest danger of suffering either by ii11sult, robbery,
rapin,, murder or by pu/.lic cala111itie1, /111nults, cornmotions,
&c. at this present unhappy dangerous period ; bdog also
liable to have your houses and premises set on fire by incen-
diaries, &c. so that you no\v contin~ally stand in jeopardy
every hour; all of which you are also n1ore fully informed
of by the late dreadful eclipses of the lun1inarie~, and also
ihe preS<'nt position of the hean:·nly Lodies ; "·hich is a suf-
ficient warning unto e\·ery person, lexcept Hcathms, '""ho
will be left to suffer both m this \\'orlJ nnd also in that
which is co come,) \Ve, therefore, now beg leave to recom-
mend to your most serious attention OlJR CELESTIAL Pao-
TECTloNs ; which will guard, <lcfond, s.l\'e, nnd protect
ynur houses, per~ons, liveS', aud property, nnd all you have,
fro1n r11i11 a111i destr11clion b!J .fire, and all other accidents;
fron1 the rapacio115 hands of all tltiel'es, rol·hers, and swind-
lers, and also frn* the po\vcr and malice of all your
·enen1ies. ~c. by wbo1n your lives and property :ire no\v
daily in the n1~t en1ineot danger, aatl nlso frcm all evil spi-
rits and u·icked men. But, being thus daily protected and
defended by the great power, torce, and virtue of the
most gloriou1 armv of heaven, &c. ygu 11eed fear no foe.
These most valuable articles are daily sold here at ouroffice
prfoe only one .guinea each. See our Grand Celestial Arca:
num, tor the benefit of the ladies and ell fomales in general.
wbicb is berein before mentioned, making any lady amiable:
beautijbl, lovely, bandson1e, &c. in the sight ofany man by
the rules ofart. ; which will also save. protect, and defe11dthem
at all times and in all places, whe!l they \\'auld not other-
wise be able to help and defend then1sclves; which has been
often proved and are warranted good and substantial. See
ourCabinetofWealth, page11, and alsopagc5;, ofthis l·ook.
(a) Phil. iv. 13. ~lurk x. 27. Luke xviii.!7. (Ii) Isaiah l;xvL2.
BOOK. OF MillACLES. 39
a 1uld 1trtp al nofnce, andu ifshe was mad, wem from.
lortbhip to lord.slip to a many •iles distance, say eight a11
ffltl itPt upt#t choce fur ahoul " week, thereby diverting
AU :.i1entiot& irito another chaa11el, for she lort all her milk.
l rnrain, Dta'f Sir, your's iRlincerity.
" P. S. I have incloseda one pound note."
Th~ letters inform you that I have apprehended thieves,
obliged them to restore their stolen goods, given unto them
also due punishment and proper correction ; at the same
time saved a ftock ofsheep, and made an old cow dancr a
hOf'flpipe as above mentioned, at more than fifty miles dis-
tance, without having the least communication '"ith them
atany time whatsoever. Don't yon call these miracles?
and can you find any other person in the world at this rime,
who can do thelike, by the same means? Ifyou cau, I will
forgive you. I also now wish to inform you, that in this
~said Celestial Court, l receive, prosecute, and enter all
"'1dH of luw-n.Uts, and actions of niJi prius; as t¥ last
Aon I entered herein, was dated June 161b, entitlll an
actiox entered into our Celestial Court of Justice for a ~
fraud and robbery, lo recover -the sum offifteen guineu,
tosether wilh alt e.r:pences and cost.f.
The .tlrmy of Heaven versus the Defendant.
By which means some scores of potnd1 may be saved in a
law-suit, as the offender will not be allowed to neither
ealJ drink, nor sleep with any comfort, nor to l:lke any rest
neither by day nor night, while he bath made you full and
perfect eatisfuction, agreeable to the established laws of
heaven; for He who made those divin~ laws will always
support them to the uttermost, whenever they are put in
execution, at any time or place whatsoever; and we also
find by daily experience, that we have much need ofsuch
divjne help and assistance, seeing that we are continually
surrounded by such a numerous train of thieves, robbers,
8Windlers, a11d gossiping character merchants, which is
enough to induce us to conclude, that man to man is a devil,
and a ravening wolf, as daily events do most certainly prove,
if we do but observe tlie deceit and treacheries, that one
man invents daily against another ; thl! robberies, thefts
plunderinga, rapes, slaughters, scanc,ials, and a hundred
vipersofthis nature. The father prosecutes the son, the
hulbanll die'frifeJ and die wue tbe husbaudJ witb a 11erpen-
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 47
deltnu:tion, and also from an untimely grav~,who were before
exeeediogly miserable and unfortunate 1n the world. (a)
In abort, here parents may make a'!lpl~ pr~visioo ~or their
children, by thus taking all the vanous evils, penis, and
dangers out of their nativities, so as to prevent the.same,
making them fortunate, happy, and prosperous 1n the
world. (b) Here may child~en also obt:in.the m~s of
protecting, defenwng, helping, and ass1stmg their pa-
rents, (c) as well ls husbands their wives, and "'.i~~ their
husbands, &c. (d) through all the different v1c1ss1tude&
and stages; and also against all the various perils an? dan-
gers of this life. Where the tradesman may also rc.>ee1ve the
article herein before mentioned, · that will bring custom to
liis shop without soliciting any person's favours whatever:
and also give him the greatest increase and success in busi-
ness; who will also thereby be safoly delivered from· the
danger of want, poveTty, distress, bankruptcy, &c. \\'bile
the travellers may also be daily protected and defi:nde<\_
from all the perils and dangers tu \\•hich they rnay C\'er be
liable lo meet with in their journies at any time ·whatsoever.
Where the ladies also 1nay obtain an inestimable treasure
that will save their lives, and preserve them \\'hen in the
greatest danger, as herein before mentioned, and give ooto
them prosperity, pleasure, h:ippines~, and felicity, both in
this world, and also in that which is to con1e. Here the
scholar or atudent may also be conducted step by step, even
from the lowest to the highest branches of learning ever
known or practised by any person whatsoc,·er, since the
creation of the world, Here the lover may also receive.
have, and most fully enjoy themeans of obtaining the whole
and sole object of their love and affection, "Stany time what-
soever; together with an article that \Viii give them a good,
filithful, honest, loving, kind, virtuous, and affectionate
partner for life, with happiness and felicity after marriage,
~nd also bow to daily receive, have, and most fully enjoy,
increase, and augment the most sincere lo\'e, and pure
41fection of those unto whom they have heretofore given
their hearts, as herein before mentioned. Here the' farmer
may also be taught uow to procure the greatest produce of
thefruits of the earth; by bringing down the blessings of
heaven upon thesame; (c) and also how to obtain riches
(a) Phil. iv 13. (b) Prov: xxii. 6. P!<alm x:o:i~. l l. 14 ProY: xvii:
6.11xxl. 28. (c) Epb. vi. 1. Col. iii. 20. (•l) I Cor. ,·ii. 3. 4. 10. 11.
16. :n. Epb. v. 22. 23. Col. iii. 18. 2.">, I. Pcler iii. I . (c) I Sam. ii.
8. Palm SXXTii. 2. !xvii. 6. civ. 24. I <.:or. iii. 7. Gen. iii. 19•
..
:bOOIC. OF MIRACLES. 51
Aeour laboriousand most serious attention will always b.!
&Wen 11Dtoall our patients-, for the purpose of uving the1n
&m 111 the horrors of an witimely grave, and 81 I shall
lllwayamake it myprincipalstudyto merit their attentionand
1apport, • •1 ~lulial l'Tattit:eejPlig1U: hath always been
aewaed with the greatest success for these lasttwentyyears,
l>oda in town •"d country, by such valuable remedies aa_
ttumot be procurediuany other partofthis kingdom ; which
'.b1virtue ofthe ume, we have frequently J>8rformed great
'Mues, at more than one hundred mile1 d11tatu:1t, without
•• llling the patient, (as I shall bereiuafter prove :)
\tht11 and where the ~ have been great, afld the
IMJ~ ·tnlt small ; which I trmt, will ahny1 entitle me-to
tlWantMlDCe, my continual and unwearied laboun for
1.'6' relWand benefit, (ill {/u,,e cwjW fftOlflellll, •hn .a
fllA •lalin tllOllld 61 iii 11ai•) may ju1tly merit. The
O'w•ee.l are mo requeated to favour me, either with •
W Qf•I, or literal application; ltatiag thir~ca en,.
illl•dtheir morning urine, a.r tAe P1'si&i.n ca ,.,,,,,. Jc
M tot4 ;,,frmMtl. 'If tu1lal1 antl tondilian of Ail palinl•.
"""~ Ii•• t11/Ja.lf0tlller. T,,.,,., f• W•ler Culillf, One
6/iiUiq. •
I do aleo particlllarly es:amine the various di•ea1e1 of DlJ'
patleata, by the everal aspects and positions of the an.geli.c
•i•it""'of Atavn at the time of application J which wiU
alway• llhow what part of the body is atBicted, the true
caaae, and nature of the dis •se, whether chronic, or
llCUte• and Ibo, whether the sick person willdie orrecover,
Ire. with the true and proper nature of the medicine that
aagbt to be sdminiatered and givea in each particular
die! re1 the •tural constitution of the patient, &c. the
'Whole beingfounded on the holy Scriptures, religion, realOD,
philOIOpby, divinity, mathematics, many years experience,
tlai)y etudy, and constant practice: (.rn wty C1lestial Ph!J-
.W.111 Gl!ldaha."'Y tample~Rabal ad Family Pkyiician,
pagea, i6i, 344, 845, 346:. 347, 3615, 371,) for by a long
anila"°riousapplication to ~study ofntonfl CGMM1 which
me die •piritual occult, orhidden operations of.,,,.,., in all
1'erworlct, by a contemplation ofthe human1tmctare, wil4
de,,....filJU. ef life a•«l dealla, by a moat minute iovesti-
. -of the ancient and.modern practice of pbysi~ of
AAtrl!PNlli•-ri4'••n""'' auid•lal, and ~aired tlireosa, and by ray
~ Woti•• 1Jvdia in tlMaily, tUtr'1llOIA9, ~
'Jtlliir•"J, _,.._..,,111d in the °''"U.Uncn,-I J.an
Ci
•
•
•
~ 0'P' Mill.Act.El. 61
ddlle wbieli prevent theeircalation of 6e bloGd,
• • • they will also make joqng Jad;ec ~
• ....,.• - fresh colOUftld.. Ire.
• Oar &'- qf Life, which is grateCal to Ille
•• ttsoh, ital g'them and fortifies the heart aoclJiyer, and
fidly ~aerves tbe body in health to esu e1 •e old.
~ eura bad appetites, makes a pocl digeltion, gi•es a
,nnd aacl cle Yoice, an acute eight~ apodoolom arul
ton. ancl an.ffers no offeoaive tbiug to remain in &be
u """"· f14legrn, &c. Cures en oft'eo1ive brmtb, in
• d(itltpoidOtee good health ofbody, preservationofspirits..
t4 mjnd, &c. N. B. Please to observe, that all
-.luabk ••me1 which compaae tbil lllllltl
bllltarv, will keep goost for any lengeh efrime:;
ii ~ to uve mmy d omlDdt of _. ftRnr
fiolll • • hmroN ai an aattmef7 pan· WJiWa
alwaya be- Mfely ).18ded up and lent bJ the retum41€
trncb lato my pan of Edllaod. lrefo§ft, Scaallod. af
OD the alaorte.t noticewithout d ' y, whmadie 'I r
,.,..... tither by tbe I hp+1ere "'..... ~ -
...... ardera.
S. may also be. bad mare tJim eleYeD 11" ••lGI &be
mit= 8"'icl~ 8ecreta, m11teriel, and curimitiea'4ow
'lfWW.111, which we hue dailr 0n sale. a .....
8•au .(9 to the IYUflfllt.111'1 Cto-., and llllO Gal
'!'llWJll&, 4"''1uf l P/ag.ui••• Ice. 8cc. A., pm
• tbeisc mentioned J61.ical ~. may be W
lllJl?qlte in any quantity, and W111 be 18Dl untoay peraoG
_ . .._ 1 '?118ble tmms, wbo may not Ind it oop-
tBllsot to pwdlaae tbe. wtaole of the1111De; bat, ftmember.
tllil'lloletter11or percel will be taken in or reali;ed at tin.
=·•1 time wbatwrea, 9Cept the 181De be duly
~ how to ta~ tllou MMicinu which COmf'Ole ol'll"
Grand Mltlical .Arcan11m, uJ.,
>11,whene\•er you,perceive any symptoms ofafl!l'er
r ldud, then take one or two lar_f' table spaonsful of
~1111 the last thing at n1J!it at gomg to bed.
al any~ther time in the nipt ifyou find it nee•
•w- whi1e those said aymptoma bilve totally disap-
'havina&nt weU shaken this bottle.
C4
BOOK O:r MJB ACLES.
a aJAte, it WODld nothavebeen ofthe Jeutuseto~.
ore, witboot delay, made up a /Joz ef•tt&Uus..
1111l him the ume by the return ofthe coach, togwber with
ID Holf Cor&#craltd. La11UJ1, 8cc. after which, I received the
fbl)owing lett11r, which is likewise kept here in e11r ~for
yddt irl'l*linn, at any time whenever you may desire to 1ee
the •me. (You will also oblenre, tmt all these letters came
#Jd..~d,, er otherwise they would have bl! n returned ••-
~ wbieh ill oar general rule).
NQw '"1iaIHJ'U!at&eing a olrillimr, and allo, whe by this
..11rllfl'I allmliola to my c1irection1, he Wiii tblll nwtorecl
i
MI,fcPter good state of health, though I neYer IB'W trim.,
!
""-~that ( .. fiom hiai, thua!r''""..
.........ill a S-wheD leat •f"k : And I
... • tJle..... b yoa at my time, ft! ! M ym
WY ..... aach aid, W,, wt Ulirtuo~ il'JOD will only
a&tead to lllCh wAiice atl fl adiou • wi1l be then given
PIO '°"'without dala7.
;:motime tJ•oee, nty Son &wedwith aSurgeon at Nima-
arft41h.ii ...,... 17 miles djatant fi'om me, who had the
•dwti•oe to be thrown from a "'1r11, on June 7th, 1813,
who tlMm pitched on hi1 Mad, which bled inwardly; the
c:ouaequence ~wbicb, v.11 this, that he was most grietonsly
Ullicted bf11ro.,.nviolentfill, which commenced with
.., jil iD two er tllllD days, and then afterwards inc:reaaed
to 0111, and often ~ a day, when he ~uired three 1toul
•• tolholcl him for abont two boon at each time.; this
a • ,..--.and most •«lliful inttllif111t:1 W8I brought to
tllltby tbe following llltt.r written bymy Son, whidi- ja allo
Jriep& llinia 081'-aflice tor yeor iospection.
co
•
