{"name":"The Book Of Miracles 9773","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1817__parkins___the_book_of_miracles____variant.pdf","mytitle":"The Book Of Miracles","mylang":"de"}
THE
Book of MIRACLES:
Celestial Arcanum.
* º -
-
**
ºr
ºx
wº
-
-
-
º
º
The following is a description of that Article by which all
our Miracles are duly performed. -
We shall first proceed to shew what is to be understood by
Miracles, which is a supernatural operation performed by
the power of God. (a) Our Saviour confirmed the doctrine
which he taught, by a train of incontestible Miracles, which’s
were so great in their natures, so real and solid in their
proofs, so divine in the manner of performing them by the
power of his will, and so holy in their end, as to fully con
firm, the doctrine he taught, so becoming the wisdom and
other glorious attributes of God, so that they set forth his
great glory. Real Miracles, which farexceed all the power
of nature, can only be produced by a creating power, and
are wrought to give credit to those alone who are sent from
Sod. Yet, some ignorant Preachers and others, have pub
licly declared that the power of Miracles have wholly ceased
since the days of our Saviour and his Apostles, which said
declaration I positively deny; as such assertions are abso
lutely as false and wicked as they are absurd, and only tend
tº prove that all such ignorant men know nothing of the
Holy Scriptures, nor the power of God in this world: Such
diabolicalcharacters will thus deceive the people, while they
are saying every day in the church of England af
§ tº the beginning, is now, and ever shall be,
e Ament.” • *. * -
(a) John iii. 2, ix. 16. Acts ii.22, x
—º- * * * * *
4.
- ******* *-* in Awl I iv.º.w….L.Duo ,
I shall also further prove all these their most gross errors
and mistakes herein, by giving you a selection of Miracles
in this boca, which have been heretofore performed before
our eyes and to our knowledge, in this present day and
ger on, by the most glorious army of Heaven performing
tº most woºderful and astonishing operations by the par
ticu's guidance and direction of the great Creator of the
unive
Tie instrument by which all these Miracles herein
after mentioned have been performed, is an article which
we have daily on sale, called (for distinction sake), our holy
consecrated Lamens, only just to distinguish them from every
other thing, as there is no virtue in the name thereof, and
which are here made and prepared by us by art, according to
the highest branches of learning; which can never fail in
their various intended works and operations, if they are
only used according to such directions as are always delivered
out with the same ; which work is so very plain and
easy, that children of only seven years of age are always able
to use the same to full perfection if they can only read our
writing, which is plain enough for any person to read; but,
you must always remember, that there is nothing to be
done under the sun without some kind of labour, for if you
buy a spade of an ironmonger, he will not go with you to use
it for you; neither shall I ever go with any of my Holy Con
secrated. Lamens to use them for you ; the more frequent
and often they are used the more work they will do. At
all times and places whatsoever, their virtue, force, opera
tion, power, and effects, will be extended throughout
even the most distant parts of the whole world. We shall
now proceed to show you -
The Use and Nature of the same.
Please toobserve, that these Holy Consecrated Lamens, &c.
are not composed of any diabolical charms, &c.; but, on the
contrary, they are spiritual and celestial treasures, wherein
is contained the great power, strength, force, and virtue of
the ever blessed Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost; by
whose power and authority alone they daily act, do, and
perform all their spiritual and most wonderful operations
and works herein mentioned; and are also intended for the
great use, profit, benefit, and advantage of mankind in
general. If any person shall enquire how they receive their
said virtues, &c. let me also ask them who gives virtue to
Book OF MIRACLES. I 1
with God, by and in whose power and authority alone these
Lamens, &c. daily perform all their most wonderful works
and operations, &c. (a) Make one fair and impartial trial. .
The true intentand meaning of all these said Holy Conse
crated Lamens, &c. is, that they bind them to their duty to
God, transform and convert the heathen and profligate
workérs of iniquity to christianity, are waited on by angels,
fully engage the most glorious army of Heaven into their
service; and also confer upon them a celestial angelic invi
sible guard to always attend the bearer thereof, in order to
defend them in the time of danger, and also to do all such
things for them as is therein mentioned, which may beagree
able to, and consistent with, the will of God. (b)
These never-failing Holy Consecrated Lamens, &c. are
here made to do and perform any lawful subject, matter, of
thing whatsoever that is found to be agreeable to, and con
sistent with, the will of God; and are indeed a most valua
ble treasure, seeing that (when they are used according to
such directions as are always delivered with the same) they
totally prevent ruin, want, poverty, distress, bankruptcy,
rapes, disappointments in love, all unhappy marriages, rob
beries, murders, suicides, with the best method to apprehend
and punish all thieves, robbers, and swindlers of every de-
scription; and, in short, will give you whatever you may
hope, wish for, and desire, agreeable to the will of heaven,
(c) at all times, and in all places whatsoever. -
The following is the general Preface to all our Holy Conse
* crated Lamens, &c.
First daily meditate on, and frequently examine the fol
lowing most valuable portions of the holy scriptures, which
are herein recorded for your benefit, (d) and see our Cabinet
of Wealth, page 17, price sixpence; or, our Key to the
JWiseman's Crown, pages 19, 63. which is also sold here,
(a) Matt. xix. 26. Mark ix. 23, x. 27. Luke xviii. 27. Phil. iv 6,
Psalm l. 15, &c. (b) Matt. xviii. 10. Luke xv. 10. Psalm xci. 11.
Heb. i. 14. Tobit xii. 15. Heb. iv. 16. Psalm xxxiv. 7. 11 Kings vi.
15, 16, 17, 18. Luke xvi. 22. . . (c) Matt. vii. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. Rom.
viii. 32. (d) Deut. xxxiii. 27. Psalm ix. 9, 10. lxix. 16. Ezek.
xxxvi. 37. Matt. xi. 12. xv. 25, 26, 27, 28. Mark vii. 26, 27, 28. ix.
23. xi. 22, 23, 24. Luke xi. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. xviii. 1, 2, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8. I Thes. v. 17. John xiv. 13, 14. 1 Cor. xv. 58. James i.
4, 6,7. iv. 8, 10. v. 14, 15. I Peter v. 7, Phil. ii. 12, 13. iv. 6. Psalm
1.15. Job. xiv.15. I John v. 14. Prov. x, 4, xviii. 24, John xv.
13, 14. Rom. xii. 10, 11, 12, 1939, 21. -
12 -- BOOK OF MIRACLES.
price one shilling each, wherein you are most fully informs
ed, that all the good things, gifts, and blessings we ever
receive, must come from heaven through Jesus Christ, (a)
and also that we must ask for them before we can ever
expect to receive them. From a want of a proper and due
attention to these things, ruin and distress enter our dwel
hing place, &c.; for if we despise the help and assistanee of
heaven, how can we ever expect to go there? Forif welive
without God in this world, we must also live without him
in the next; (b) for a man can receive nothing except it be
given him from heaven. (e) For when all human refuges
dothforsake us, then willthehelp ofGodshineforth; therefore,
you must daily use and wear your Holy Consecrated Lamen
any where about you, and repeat the service thereunto be
ſonging on your knees for several times over, the first thing
in the morning and the last at night at going to bed, and also
as often every day as you can make it convenient so to do,
until you have obtained the desired end, intent, and purpose;
(Here follows the proper Lamen Service according to the
subject, matter, or thing, on which the same is duly conse
trated, prepared, and made.)
The following is the necessary preparation for this Work, in
order to make the whole of the same more effectual, and
also how to obtain the greatest success therein.
First search throughout, well eramine, and daily meditate
on all those valuable portions of the Holy Scriptures herein
after mentioned for your benefit, until you perfectly under
stand the whole of the same. Then consider whether you
are the friend of God, from whom all blessings flow, or
otherwise; (d)andalso,whetheryouactuallyseearealnecessity
ofhaving your wants relieved; and also, whetheryou are pro
perly disposed and duly prepared to approach the throne of
Grace; whether you are clothed with a wedding garment,
or otherwise, (e) and have also tasted of the fruits of re
generation. (f) For if you come without these necessary
qualifications, God will nothearyou ; (g) and also remember
(a) John xiv. 6. Acts iv. 12. Eph. i. 21. Phil. ii. 9, 10. II Tim.
ii. 19. (b) I Sam. ii. 30. Prov. i. 7. Acts xiii. 41. Luke x, 16.
* Thes. iv. 8, (c) John iii. 27. v. 19, 30. viii. 28. ix. 33. James
i. 17. (d) John xv. 13, 14, 15. Solomon's Song v. 16. James iv.
5,7,8,9, 10. Phil. iii. 18, 19,20. Col. i. 21,22,23,24,25,26,27,2s.
(e) Matt. xxii. 11, 12, 13, 14. (f) John iii. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,8, 9,
BOOK OF MIRACLES, 13
at the same time, that there is only one kind of worship
that is acceptable unto God, (a) as all other kinds and forms
of worship are nothing less than solemn mockery; which,
above all things, ismostabominableunto the Lord: (b) which
is also explained in my Celestial Touchstone, (which is sold
here at our office, price only sixpence each.) But ifit should
so happen that any of our Holy Consecrated Lamens should
ever come into the hands of any of these unhappy characters
herein before mentioned, (as they have heretoforefrequently
done at various periods) or if they should ever be received
by any of the sons of Belial, or the workers of iniquity,
who daily live in an open rebellion against heaven, these
unhappy deluded people (who are every day labouring so
hard to complete their ruin and destruction), I should think
eannot have the least expectation to ever use any of them
with success while they remain in that most dangerous and
deplorable state. For when any man doth come or apply
unto me for these divine and most sacred articles, it cannot
be expected that I shall ask him whether he be a christian or
no? For this I know, if he is not, he ought to become a
christian without any further delay; or otherwise he is nei
ther fit to live, nor is he yet in a proper state for the hour of
death: therefore I must leave this matter to his own judg
ment, for his own private and most necessary enquiry and
examination, as it will be him alone that must answer to this
most awful and tremendous charge, at a certain future period
when every man will be rewarded according to his works. (c)
--- THE ORACLE OF LOVE.
This is a divine principle which is planted in the soul by
the great Creator of the universe; which signifies, to regard
with great desire and affection, to be pleased with, to be
fond of, to regard as a parent, a friend, or benefactor, with a
sense of gratitude, the admiration of the divine attributes; a
readiness to obey, and an unwillingness to offend when ap
plied to our duty to God, an ardent desire of the objectwho
seems amiable, that passion which is excited at the ap
pearance of any object that appears to be desirable. It is
divided into two species, viz. the love of friendship and of
desires: the one betwixt friends, and the other between
lovers; the one a rational, the other a sensual passion; when
(a) John iv. 23, 24. Prov. xxiii. 26. (b) Prov. xxviii. 9. Luke
xvi.15. Rom. viii. 4,5,6,7,8, 13, 14. Rev. xxi. 8, 27. (c) Matt.
xvi. 27. II Tim, iv. 14, Rom. ii. 6. John iii. 10.
14 BOOK OF MIRACLES,
applied to the affection between persons of different sexes,
it then implies courtship; but when it is exerted between
persons of the same sex, it implies friendship or benevolence;
when applied to our country, a preferring its interest to our
own; a readiness to encounter any danger in its behalf;
but when applied to the affection we should have towards
our Creator, it is the whole man exerted in one desire; it
signifies figuratively, the object of love, concord, a perspec
tive image of love: Thus we read, “ that Jacob served
seven years for Rachel, and they seemed unto him but a few
days, for the love he had for her. (a) This love also inclines
us to delight in, esteem, and most earnestly desire to enjoy
an interest in God's favour, and communion with him as
our chief good, portion and happiness; and the fountain of
all perſection and excellency, and which likewise disposes
us to do good to all; especially to such as resemble God in
holiness, and bear his image. (b) This kind oflove hath the
mostwonderful effect in its operations, (c) it is therefore cal
led conjugal love, which is divine; that is, God's love to his
people, which is inerpressible, (d) inconceivable, (e) ever
lasting, (f) sovereign, (g) free and undeserved, (h) immu
talle, (i) complacential, (k) boundless and infinite. (l)
There is, likewise, a love between the husband and wife, (m)
and also, parental and filial love; (n) There is also a spiritual
love, which is the love of God towards his children, (o) and
also the love of believers towards God; (p) and the love of
Christ to his church (q) and to his people; (r) There is also
the love of Christians towards Christ, (s) and also of be
lievers to each other, (t) of pastors towards their people, (v)
and also of hearers towards their teachers; (u) while we
find that the workers of iniquity, and the Sons of Belial have
a wicked, carnal, and sensual love; which daily lead them
to their complete ruin and destruction, both in this world
and also in that which is to come; and frequently to an un
timely grave. (u') Thus we see one daily feed on the lusts of
(a) Gen xxix 20. (b) I John iv. 19, 21. (r) John xv. 13, 14, 17.
(d) John iii 16. (e) Eph. iii. 19. (f) Jer. xxxi. 3. (g) Deut; vii. 8.
(h) Hosea xiv. 4. (i) John xiii. 1. (k) Prov. viii. 31. (l) 1 John
iv. 16. (m) Gen. xxiv. 67. Eph. v. 25. (n) Gen. xxii.2.xliv. 20.
xlv. 11. (o) John xvii. 23. Rom. v. 5,8. (p) Psalm crvi. I.
(q) Eph v. 2. (r) John iii.2. Gal ii. 20. (s) Solom. Song i 4, 7.
John xxi. 15. (t) John xv. 17. Col. 1, 4. (r) I Cor. xvi. 24.
1 I Cor. ii. 4. (u) II Cor vii. 8. I Thes, v. 13. Titus iii. 15.
(ſ) || Sam. xiii. 4, 13, 14, 28, 29. Prov, vii. 18, 22, 23, 26, 27
in Chron. Xix. 2. Rev.'xx's ºxii.13. • * ~ *** **, **,
- BOOK OF MIRACLES. is
the flesh, while the other lives on the fruits ofthespirit; (a)
the one leads to happiness and felicity, the other, to the
greatest of all misery and affliction, which hath caused so
many grievous unhappy marriages; no wonder at us still
hearing of so many run-away husbands and wives, whose
names are so frequently found in the common newspapers,
so many crim. cons. elopements, and divorces, even in this our
present day and generation, so that, indeed, I wonder much
how the young people of both sexes dare venture into a
state of matrimony, until they have first had all these evils,
&c. eradicated by the rules of art hereinafter mentioned,
before their repentance come too late; or otherwise they
may be left to drag out the remains of a most unhappy,
grievous, and miserable life; as many others have done
fore them, from a want of knowing where to obtain help
in the time of need; but, as you cannot make such a plea .
while I live, you must be left without excuse, if ever you
meet with such acute sufferings, and real afflictions like
these, after this notice, which you may obtain from these
pages; for whoever hath read my Celestial Physician, and
my other works now extant, hath, no necessity to be told,
“ that as I well know the cause of every accident, &c. under
the sun, with a good and proper never-ſailing remedy for
the same, if you do not take the benefit of such valuable
remedies in due time, it is not my fault, let the consequence
be what it will. We are likewise taught by daily expe
rience, “ that a prevention is much better than a cure;” for
it is but of little use coming to me with a bundle of most
grievous complaints, &c, as many others have done, when
their ruin and destruction was nearly completed; perhaps
their expectations and hopes of happiness in this life, at some
former period, was equally as great and as promising and
brilliant as ever yours may be ; but, alas ! they were most
miserably disappointed. I well know a great number of such
unhappy characters, who did not hear of me, nor what I
could do for them, while it was almost too late. But I have
written and published this book on purpose for your aid,
timely help, assistance, relief, and benefit, so that your
future days may always be crowned with the blessings of
º prosperity, pleasure, happiness, and felicity, both in this
avorld, and also in that which is to come, by a due and
* proper use of the means and remedies hereinafter mentioned,
being first duly made and prepared for that laudablepurpose.
* - (a) Gal. v., 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25.
*
º
º
:
16 BOOK OF MIRACLES,
-
There are also a great variety of evils, accidents, perils,
and dangers, which originate from the birth of the native;
this I can prove every day by common experience, and which
can only be known and pereived by the learned, who
are able to read the heavens; (which is a work never in
tended forfools and madmen, but for wise men alone:) Thus
the Apostle was well aware of the many evils, perils, and
dangers, both sexes were subject to meet with in this life,
and particularly in the state of Matrimony; which induced
him to give them the following kind admonition, viz.:
“Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for
what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness;
and what communion hath light with darkness; and what
concord hath Christ with Belial; or what part hath he that
believeth with an infidel; and what agreement hath the
temple of God with idols, &c. Wherefore, come out from
amongst them, and be ye separate saith the Lord, and touch
not the unclean thing, and I will receive you, &c.” II. Cor.
vi. 14, 15, 16, 17, 18.
There is also another most grievous cause of unhappy
and miserable marriages, which I have frequently observed
with the greatest attention, which I deem the most fatal of
all causes, which is an evil and unfortunate nativity, and the
native daily living under the most baneful and malignant
influence of the same, which hath brought so many thou
sands ofunhappy mortals to their ruin and destruction, and
also to an untimely grave; for whosoever hath Saturn,
Mars, or the Dragon's Tail in that part of the heavens called
the seventh house, at the time of their birth, will always have
much reason to expect a most miserable and unhappy mar
riage; except all those said evils, &c. be timely removed by
the rules of art, and I must also now inform you, that
there is not now at this time any other person in this whole
kingdom that doth even make the least attempt to remove any
evils, perils, dangers, accidents, &c. out of any nativity
except myself, which I have hitherto done, and can always
do for you, to your full and perfect satisfaction whenever I *
am required so to do, either here at our Temple of Wisdom,
or otherwise, at your own houses, by personal application
alone, on such terms and conditions as will be hereinafter
mentioned. All such unhappy and malignant positions of
those angels who daily move in the sphere of the heavenly
*odies, as those hereinbefore mentioned, generally cause
"Parations, quarrels, discord, elopements, divorces, &c, as
y
Jovºvna ºwn iwillia rav LeDºnos tw
for example, the late Dr. Sibly, had both Saturn and Mars
located in the seventh house in his nativity, and the conse
quence was this; he had two or three wives, but could not
live with any of them. No person could have imagined or
thought this to be the case, neither from his common con
versation, address, accomplishments, or his company; yet,
that unfortunate gentleman during the time that I was at
his house in Upper Titchfield Street, London, in the year
1796, he was then living in a state of separation from his
wife, whom I never saw all the while I wasin town, though
he published his Illustration of the Occult Sciences, and
therein taught the art of calculating nativities; yet, he never
was able even so much as to make the attempt to remove
any evils, &c. out of the same, as that most importantwork
doth require much higher branches of learning than either
him, or any other astrologian in the whole kingdom ever
professed to know or understand." Reader, you will please
to observe, that it is not lºy business to calculate nativities,
for I never did bring any ofthe directions up in any person's
nativity at any time whatsoever, because it is of no use to
burthen or afflict the mind of any person whatsoever, with
a most dreadful prospect of future evils, &c. which are yet
at a distance.—No, my business is to remove them, and
give them a never-failing remedy for the same, which I
think deth answer a much better purpose, though I can
read the heavens as well as I can read the Bible, which I do
when I please for my own amusement, instruction, and in
formation, on any subject, matter, or thing which I may
then have in hand. A certain tradesman, of the parish of
Marston, came to my house on the fifth day of April, 1816,
full of tears, he being in great grief, sorrow, and affliction,
who then informed me that his dearly beloved wife had run
away with a tailor, who was also a married man : this un
happy miserable deponent, most earnestly requested of me
to let him have one of our Holy Consecrated Lamens, in
order to oblige her to return to the arms of her most affec
tionate husband; but I was in a better disposition to have
sent her two or three hundred miles another way, for reasons
best known to myself; however, at length, after much per
suasion, he prevailed upon me to put him in possession of
this most valuable article, for which he paid me one guinea;
which presently brought both these adulterousfugitives home
3 again, as all the inhabitants of Marston can fully prove and
testify; and I am informed by report, that they now live
more happy than ever they did before that time. This evil,
&c. was caused by the opposition of Saturn and the Moon,
who are the prime significators in his nativity, the malig
nancy of which might have easily been prevented, moved,
and eradicated, long before that time, had he only taken my
advice; but some are determined to buy their wit at too
great a price. Another man came to me out of the country,
and told me that his wife had gone away, and had eloped
with a travelling bookseller; he said he wished to have her
again, because “she was such a very pretty creature,”
about twenty years yoringer than him, so I also sold him one
of these articles, with a charge not to destroy the same, by
which means, she was also soon obliged to return home
again; but, when he found this Lamen had done its work,
he destroyed the same, and the consequence was, she soon
left him again, and I suppose his friends advised him to
give himself no more trouble about her.
. Now, I suppose, that all the people thateven go to church
to be married, do wish and expect to live happy and com
fortable together all the remaining days of their lives;
but, alas! what a great number of them, (I may say the
major part of them) meet with a most fatal disappointment
herein, which is caused from a want of removing these
evils, &c. out of their nativities by the rules of art, before
their repentance comes too late; I could mention many more
instances of this direful nature, but I do not wish to detain
your attention too long on such unhappy subjects, for
no person can conceive how great and acute the misery,
anguish, and affliction is which these poor unhappy mortals
daily suffer, but the parties themselves. Now, observe, that
such unhappy nativities have often brought many thousands
to their ruin and destruction, and to an untimely grave,
because they have lived under them. Reader, are you
exempt from all these evils, &c. any more than others ? If
not, get them removed and eradicated therefrom without
delay; or you may stay while it is too late, before you learn
to be wise, for this is what St. Paul means, when he informs
you: “ that if you live after the flesh, you shall die; but if
ye through the spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye
shall live. (a) Put off the old man, which is corrupt, and
put on the neur man, which after God, is created in righ
*eousness and true holiness, &c.” Now I have wrote these
*in this place, for you to read them and understand them,
(a) Rom. viii. 13, 14. Gal. v. 16, 18. Eph. iv.22, 32. 2.
if you please; otherwise, I need not have given myself
that trouble, which at once will show you the great and
real necessity of regeneration, (a) which is generally laughed
at by those heathens who are lost to all intents andpurposes,
being delivered unto Satan andthepowers ofdarkness, (b) and
also to their own hearts' lust. (c)
Now I am continually in the habit of daily receiving
various applications from females of different classes, both,
by personal and literal application, as for instance: The first
class come, or send unto me, saying: that some youngman
hath paid his addresses to them for some length of time,
when after making them several promises, and gained their
affections, hath then left them to lament and gone to others,
withoutany just cause for such ill-treatment; my business is
then to make these deluded unhappy young women an
article, which being used by them according todirections, will
oblige their said suitors to return and come to them again,
and fulfil all these their said promises, which they have
heretofore made in the presence of the great Creator of the
universe; which said article will also enable them to marry
the man they love, if agreeable to the will of heaven; and
also, to most fully enjoy happiness and felicity after mar
riage, &c. I have done all these most wonderful works,
miracles, and operations, at a many miles distance by this
means, when there was no promise made of any kind what
soever, as I shall hereinafter prove to your full satisfaction.
Another class of females come, or send unto me, saying:
that they have received the overture and address of a young
man for so long a time, unto whom they had given their
love and affections; who after having thus gained their con
fidence—they had betrayedand ruinedthem, to thegreatgrief
and detriment of themselves and their friends; they had then
left them to their own unhappy reflections, and heart-felt
sorrows, &c. I then put such unhappy females in possession
of an article that will oblige the offender to return, and
make them such satisfaction as they may require of him;
yea, if he go into the uttermost parts of the earth, (as the
greatest distance is of no consequence to the army of heaven,
who doth all my work), he must come at the forfeiture of
his life. -
Another class of females come, or send unto me, saying:
that they wish and desire some time or other to enter into a
(a) John iii. 8, 8. (b) I Tin, i.20. II Peter, ii. 4, 6, 9,10, 12,
13,14, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22. (c) Psalm.lxxxi. 12.
- -- - ------------
state of matrimony; but, as they are not already engaged to
any gentleman whatsoever, whenever it shall be that they
thus change their situationin life, they wish “to do it well;"
as they have seen so many unhappy and most miserable
marriages, they wish to avoid the evils thereof. I then
make for such wise females, an article that will most fully
enable them to obtain a good, faithful, honest, loving, kind,
virtuous, and affectionate husband (together with happiness
and felicity ofter marriage.) At the appointed time, this
they will obtain, let their nativities speak ever so much to
the contrary, for a supernatural good will always overcome
a natural evil, as in this case the great Creator of the
universe choses for them, which is much better than to ruin
themselves for life, by making a fatal and unhappy choice
for themselves; for if ever they should chance to be united
and joined to the sons of Belial, and the workers of iniquity,
their hopes ofhappiness and felicity must be in vain.
Another class of married ladies come, or send unto me,
saying: that seeing that we all know that the state of child
bearing, pregnancy, and the time of labour, doth bring and
expose us to the greatest perils and dangers, and also that
many unfortunate females have been suddenly hurried out of
the world, at that most awful and tremendous period, when
so many thousands have been called hence to be no more seen,
Hwish to take the benefit of the fifth Holy Consecrated
Lamen, mentioned in the Cabinet of Wealth, page 7, which
is an inestimable treasure for all pregnant ladies, which will
always prove to be their greatest friend in the time ofdanger.
* What lady who values her health and life, would ever be
withoutsuch divine assistance, and the protection of heaven?”
Another class of females come, or send unto me, saying:
Seeing that we know that we daily live in a worldthat lieth
in wickedness; (a) andalso that we continually stand injeopar
dy every hour, (b) I now wish to enjoy the benefit of the
fourth Holy Consecrated Lamen mentioned in the Cabinet of
Wealth aforesaid, which will most powerfully protect and
defend any lady against all the various powers of seduction
and insult; and also from the most malignant grasp of the
most atrocious and abandoned libertine, at all times and in
all places whatsoever.
4nºther class of females come, orsend unto me, saying:
That it may so happen that some gentleman may wish to
(a) IJohn, v. 19. (b) I Cor. xv. 30.
ſº
Ixx rvº vr 1711+urºviuag, - - -
marry me just for the sake of obtaining my portion; and
when he hath gained that point, I may then perhaps do as
well as I can, and not as I would,—He may secretly hide
from me all his evil propensities, faults, and failings; and
thus I may be deceived, even while I am so far engaged that
I cannot retract; so that my repentance may come too late.
WhenImay also suffermuch trouble and affliction by reason
of my enemies' false reports, and a variety ofothercauses,
and being also liable, like other unfortunate females, to
be afflicted by a most fatal disease, which is explained in
the Celestial Physician, (a book now extant), called furor
uterinus; or, the madness of the womb ; whichhath brought
so many thousands of unhappy females to their complete
ruin and destruction, and also to an untimely grave; and
being also truly sensible of my own weakness and inability
to help or defend myself under any of these most alarming
and dreadful circumstances º have such a particular
effect on my spirits, that I am fearful of all these most
afflicting and dangerous catastrophes. Therefore I shall
now be much obliged to you to take all those evils, acci
dents, perils and dangers out of my nativity, by virtue of
gour art, which I suppose must be done by personal appli
cation alone, according to the tenor of the following adver
tisement, viz. -
- Dr. Parkin's Grand Celestial Arcanum, . .
Forthe benefit ofthe ladies in general, by personal applica -
tion alone.
Which is a most special remedy and cure for all
those who are in trouble and affliction, which mitigates
and prevents all unhappy marriages, insults, and violence
from all their enemies, together with the various evils, acci
dents, perils, and dangers that may ever be found in their na
tivities, which hath heretofore brought so many thousands
of unbappy and most unfortunate females to their ruin and
destruction, and also to an untimely grave, which said af.
flictions frequently come suddenly upon them like a thief in
the night, while by this said divine art, these calamities, &c,
will be speedily and most effectually removed and eradicated,
so that by the same they will be most fully enabled to ob
tain the blessings of health, tºº, pleasure, happiness,
and felicity, both in this world, and , also in that
which is to come, for it is of no use “to lock the stable door
when the horse is stolen.” As numerous most fatal exam
that a prevention is always much better than a cure, which
is a work that can only be done by personal application
alone. I hope charity, benevolence, and humanity will al
ways induce you to inform all your female friends and ac
{j. where they may duly receive all these great
nefits, and heaven will reward this your labour of love;
all of which doth require a personal application alone, where
and when every lady may always depend upon the greatest
secrecy relating to the whole and every part of their business
and affairs at all times whatsoever, thus making any lady
amiable, beautiful, lovely, handsome, &c. in the sight of any
man, by the rules of art. And as we can always do so
much more for them therein, especially for all those who
so much require our aid, help, and assistance at any time
whatsoever by personal, than what we can ever do by literal
application, we wish now also to inform you, and all your
neighbours, relations, friends, and acquaintances, that in all
your most serious and important cases herein before men
tioned, which are weighty, and of the greatest consequence
both to you and them in all such cases, Dr. Parkins (who
is the author of this book) will wait on any lady or gentle
man at their own houses, in any part of England, &c.;
(which is always the best place in which you can have your
business done without being liable to the least interruption,
which cannot be the case in our offices) who has no objec
tion to first send and remit unto him, such additional tra
velling expences, &c. as will be necessarily required for the
same; whether such expences be sent by any individual, or
by any party subscription, at any time whatsoever; (see my
Cabinet of Wealth, page 1 l; and also my Key to the Wise
Man's Crown, page 63, &c.) you may then, at that time and
place, obtain (by the rules of art) whatever you may then
Áope, wish for, and desire, agreeable to the will ofheaven. .
A young tradesman who lived in the north of Lincoln
shire, near fifty miles distance from me, fell desperately in
love with a farmer's daughter, who also lived in the same
village. He being exceeding fearful of meeting with a re
pulse, hesitated some time before he dare attempt to make
any overture of his love unto her, or even to speak in her
resence on that most important subject. However, at ,
$ngth he mustered up all the courage he could find, and
then asked her the plain question—whether she would make
* happy, or otherwise? when, alas; to his great grief
and mortification, she immedi - ---
iately gave him a positive an
absolute denial "...º.º. ameaaley gave him * P. * * * d
BOOK OF MIRACLES. - 23
and sanguine expectations.—She certainly was at liberty to
do as she pleased, and also to deny him if she thought pro
per, as she had never made him any promises of that nature.
However, he well knew that it was of no use for him to
make a second attempt by any way or means whatsoever,
as such a step would only tend to increase his misery, and
get himself offended; he was therefore left in complete des
pair; but while he was in this most unhappy and disconso
late state, he accidentally met with one of my books called
the Cabinet of Wealth, (which we have here daily on sale at
our house, price only sixpence each) and in the 7th page of
that book, he found the description ofthe third Lamen, &c.
which saith: “That by the use of the same, any lady may
marry the gentleman she loves, if agreeable to the will of
God, and fully enjoy happines and felicity after marriage.”
-Now, says he, if a lady can obtain such great benefits,
why may not a gentleman by the same rule 2 Therefore,
without any further delay, he sent me the following post
-letter. - -
“Sir, - -
Perusing your valuable work, the Holy Temple of Wis
dom, (observe this book is called the Cabinet ofWealth; or,
the Templeof Wisdom; but thosewho are in lovegenerally
talk backwards) and seeing the wonderful power and in
jtuence of your Holy Consecrated Lamens, feel anxious to
make one fair and impartialtrial of the same, ifyou think it
advisable. The following is the particulars of the case:
Having & particular regard for a young lady; but do not
see the least probability at present of attaining the desired
object of my affections. If, therefore, through the interces
sion of your Holy Consecrated Lamens you can enable me to
gain the lady's affections, will for ever oblige your mostsin
cere friend and well wisher, &c. &c.
P. S. Have enclosed you a one guinea note Boston Bank.”
This original post letter is kept here in our office for the
inspection of any lady or gentleman who may wish to see
the same. - - - :
Now, this work doth require a miracle, for he saith,
* That he doth not see the least probability of attaining the
desired object of his affections.” And if I am to render unto
him any service in this matter, I must find the means to make
this lady do as we please, say as we please, and think as we
" * ºnd all this at the distance of nearly fifty miles, with
- ov-ºn- ºr ivilia-raviºrs
out having the least communication with her whatsoever;
which you must acknowledge cannot be done without a
miracle; but as I have at different periods performed so
many of them, I well knew that I could do the same again.
Now I could do all the work myself, but if I do, he may
think that I deal in some black art, &c.; therefore, I made
the article, and desired him to use it himself according to di
rections; and then he knew that the work was done by the
angelic ministers of heaven, who doth all my work.
When this young man had used this said article (for which
he had paid me one guinea as aforesaid) about some 3 or 4
days or a week, he went to see the fair object of his love
once more, when, behold, instead of giving him another po
sitive denial, she absolutely received him with open arms, and
told him that she would be his, and his alone as soon as ever
He thought proper to marry and settle in the world... But he
thought that it was best to get a home of his own before he
took a wife; and he also wished to get some more instruc
tion in his trade and business before he settled, for himself.
For which purpose (having thus secured his lady as aforesaid)
he went to London, and in order to gain more experience
therein, he got into a large shop in the metropolis. When
after staying there as long as he thought proper he returned
into the country again, and was then so very kindly, and so
affectionately received by his lady at that period, that he
thought be had no further occasion for the article which I
had before sent unto him as above mentioned, as it had done
its work; therefore, without any more hesitation, he de
stroyed the same without delay: but what do you think
was the consequence that followed that rash act and deed?
IWhy, he lost his lady, who told him to his face, that she
had not thesame affection for him then that she once had;
but she did not know the cause for why. But he knew then
what he had done by destroying his Lamen. She never did
know anything of this matter herself. By this rash act and
deed he had so far offended the powers of heaven as to
bring down divine judgments upon himself; and he suffered
this kind of punishment for destroying that article;
which was just as much as if he said to the angelic ministers
of heaven, “you may go, I can now do very well without
you : sinceI have obtained the end and summit of my desires,
I can now keep the object of my affections without your help
and assistance, &c., But he was most miserably mistak,
in this matter indeed; and he very soon found it “’
Jºu)Orº Utº iWII tº AULiº,5, 25
own ingenuity and sharpness, as he was now reduced to a,
most miserable and unhappy state and condition by his own
folly and misconduct, which I suppose afflicted him with
the cramp in the face.—Thus he found himself reduced to
this awkward dilemma, whether he would expend another
guinea for the recovery of his lost lady, or whether he would
lose her for ever. However, he soon came to a determination
and conclusion of this business, and sent me the following
post letter. - * -
“Dear Sir, -
“Have lately had a convincing proof of theefficacy ofyour
Holy Consecrated Lamens, which I must acknowledge has
Jully answered my expectations.—You may, perhaps, recollect
me applying to you on the ill success of my addresses to a
3young lady, whose affections I very soon gained after re
ceiving one of your Lamens for that purpose being taken ill
some time lack, destroyed the same. Since that time have
frequently seen some alterations in her conduct towards me,
which caused me to enquire the reason. She told me, that
she did not know for why—but she must say, that she cer
tainly had not the same affection for me she once had ; there
fore, shall be much obliged to you to send meanother Lamen
for the same purpose, for which I have inclosed you one
guinea. You may tell Mr. S. when he calls at your house,
that I am well convinced of the truth of your said Holy Con
secrated Lamens, which I found to be exactly true, and be.
lieve me with respect, yours, truly, &c.” -
This original post letter is kept here in our ºffice, forthe
inspection of any lady or gentleman who may desire to see
the same ; as we have no deception in our business, we can
always bear the greatest scrutiny of the closest examination
at any time whatsoever; but in the case before us I was
obliged to work another miracle, and make this lady do as
we please, say as we please, and think as we please, at the
distance of near fifty miles, without having the least com
munication with her at any time whatsoever, (and if I can
do it at fifty miles, I can do it at fifty thousand miles by the
same rule). This young man hath paid me another guinea for
this work, and I can easy do the same again, as I did for
him before ; so I sent him another Holy Consecrated
Lamen, and invited him to destroy that likewise if he
pleased, because he would ºn want another, but he knew
26 Book of MIRACLES. . . ., M.
betterthan to do it a second time. He took it and tº *
according to directions, which immediately brought\sº
to the same loving, affectionate, and desirable state, as that
in which she was in before the accident happened. Don't gº
call this a miracle? After which, he went to London, took
a house...and shop, and I made him one of my trademan's
best friend, (for which he paid me another guinea,) in order
to give him success and prosperity in his business, and bring
plenty of ready money customers to his shop; when he
sent for his lady up to London, and they were happily
married, and live like turtle doves; for as heaven is the
fountain ofall happiness and felicity, it must be from thence
alone that we must obtain the same, where we shall always
find a sufficient store of pleasure and delight, both as :
respects this world, and also that which is to come; and
remember reader, that whatever I have done for this worthy
and good disposed young man, (who is worthy of all th:
pleasure, prosperity, happiness, and felicity he enjoys) I
can do the same for you, whenever I may receive your
instructions and directions therein for that purpose, at any
time or place whatsoever, -
OUR CELESTIAL COURT OF JUSTICE.
Law is a rule of action, a precept, or command, coming
from a superior authority, which an inferior is bound tº
obey; the laws of England are so voluninous, that sever,
years ago Mr. Viner made an abridgement, or epitome ºf
them, in twenty-four volumes. Thestatutessince thatperiº
make at least a fourth of all the statutes, for what with
rew acts of parliament, and subsequent acts toexplain toº
the laws of England are past finding out; it also signifiesa
judicial process, or any thing that is obliged to be done, 20
invariable conformity, or correspondent between a caust
and the effect. There is, likewise, the law ºf nature, which
would make a large volume of itself. To take the lau,
implies to enter an action against any person ; but ºf lau,
which is practised in this court alone, is nothing less that
the established laws of heaven, which is most fullyperformed
and daily executed by the most glorious army of º
therefore, whenever you wish to put the laws of Eng”
in execution against any person, you must £o to a rigº
attorney, but when you desire to put the laws of hearth : :
in execution against any person whatsoever, (and thereby * X
make a savingof a many pounds) you must then come Upſ) -
|
|
|
Jovºvºwn. Vºn Twiliºu ºv.uºsº, ºw
as me for that purpose, for neither the one nor the other law
... are of any use, while they are put in due execution in a
... proper manner and form, as for instance: when Peter was
º, putinto prison, and was then delivered unto four quaternions
*: of soldiers to keep him, (a) and was there sleeping between
º, two soldiers, being bound with two chains, and the keeper
º standing before the door, keeping him safe therein, even
*: while his friends brought this their cause, and this matter
º into this said celestial court; and the consequence was; that
''. Peter was delivered out of that prison, and also from the
a. power and malice of his enemies, by that means alone; and
º also, when the Syrian army came and surrounded a certain
º* city with horses and chariots, and agreat host, which came by
*... night, and compassed the city about, so that the servant
º was exceedingly frightened, and alarmed, while he had
º obtained a sight of the army of heaven, (b) who is able to
ſlºw,
* ºnquer the whole world; and seeing that Elisha also, well
* knew how to prosecute in this said celestial court, by the
established laws of heaven, which is always far exalted and
ſ” dignified, even as much above all the laws of every king
** dom in the world, as the heavens are exalted and elevated
above the earth; and the consequence was, this great Syrian
army was immediately smitten with blindness, and was
delivered into the hands of this prophet. And again; Senua
cherib, king of Assyria, came up with a very large army,
with full intent to destroy a certain city, but Hezekiah
also, knew how to present his cause in this said celestial
court, which he did, instead of sending off for so many
troops of horse, and so many regiments of foot soldiers to
defend both him and the city—in lieu thereof, he without
Jelay commanded the army of heaved against them, and the
immediate consequence was, that in that same night, there
was slain in the camp of the Assyrians, one hundred and
eighty-five thousand, and, behold, in the morning, they were
alldead corpses. Here wasan uncommon slaughter performed
W only one from the army of heaven aforesaid: (c) and, re
º: member, as it was then, so it is:now in these days; for they
ğ. daily say in the church of England, “As it was in the begin
sº many is now, and ever shall be, world without end, Amen."
* There is no difference in the laws of heaven now at thistime,
#/.
#!// (24°tsxiā. 4,5,6,7,8,9, 10, 11, 12, 13 14, 16. (b) iſ Kings vi,
**
º
\\
23 ºf ſº, 1%. 17", 18. (c)ii Kings Xix.9, 10, 14,15, 16, 17, 20, 23, 32,
º #. gº ... iv. a. Judges v. 20. 'Isaiah ...vii'36-ii ciºn.
than what they were at that period above mentioned: for in
this supreme court of heaven, (where every good cause may
always be legally presented, tried, and executed; where all
our works and operations are daily begun, continued, and
ended; and also, where all our business on every subject,
matter, and thing, is done,) may always be determined most
disputes, quarrels, and controversies; (a) so that we can
thereby prevent all that ruin and destruction which are
frequently brought upon our friends by various litigations
and lawsuits, (b) and whenever our directions are brought
into full practice, the same will always oblige and compel
the aggressor, or offender, to make you full and perfect
satisfaction, by giving him proper punishment and correction
without delay, by the great virtue of the most glorious army
of heaven aforesaid: unto whom the greatest distance of
miles is not the least object, so that the thief, or offender,
shall not be able to neither eat, drink, or sleep, nor take any
more rest neither by day, nor night, even while he hath
made you full andperfect satisfaction.”
The case being first laid before Him who hath no respect
to persons whatsoever, (c) therefore, let every person well
understand, that no man can ever attempt so much as only
to even speak against this our said divine art, without in
curring the great displeasure of heaven at the same time,
and thereby bring down the most grievous judgments and
afflictions of all kinds whatsoever upon himself, tending to
his most complete ruin and destruction; from which cause,
some have already lost their lives, for so doing, as I shall
hereinafter prove, for such a most wicked atrocious act and
deed is nothing less than an absolute declaration of war
againstheaven, which I can prove. “Did any person everfight
against heaven and prosper?" (d) We can also prove from
the best authority, that all such unhappy thieves and guilty
persons, (when and where our said Holy Consecrated
Lamens have been regularly used according to directions)
have suffered most severe affliction and trouble, with restless
nights of pain and torment: but mark this, “That God is
always above the devil, and also, that the powers of dark
ness must always submit to the powers of heaven;” there
fore, all resistance herein will always prove vain, fruitless,
(g) Titus iii. 9 ...(b) I Cor. vi. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. I Tim. i.
*9. (c) Rom. ii. 11. Eph. vi. 9 Col. iii.25. James ii, 9.
****, *, 17. (d) Amos iii, 16. II Chron...iii, 12. Acts v,39
xxiii, 9. - > - is '+ º-,
BOOK OF MIRACLES."
-
and abortive; “for though hand join in hand, the wicked
shall not go unpunished:” for if in any case (a) we should
despise the help and assistance of heaven, how can we ever
expect to go there; for if we five without God in this world,
we must also live without him in that which is to come, to
2ur eternalsorrow, “when repentance will cone too late.”(b)
Therefore, be careful what you are now about, and mind
what you are doing, for you see how easy you may ruin
&ourself in respect to these things, ifyou are not found “ to
£e on the Lord's side,” (c) and by this your rebellion against
heaven, make yourself even worse than the thief himself.
This book is intended to serve you as a looking-glass, to show
You the state of your own hearts, and as a touch-stone, to
wet your wits upon, while you are become truly sensible of
your state and condition. “If there was no law, there
would be no living,” for we are most fully informed by the
Holy Scriptures, that there are a certain class of people
always living amongst us, who are justly termed the vessels
of wrath, fitted to destruction, (d) whose mouths are full of
cursing and swearing, (e) lying and slandering; (f) their
common civility is only gross insult, for the poison of asps is
under their lips, (g) whose hands are full of violence, (h).
and their feet are swift to do mischief, (i) who are also open
enemies to God and his holy religion, and also unto all the
sincere professors of the same. (B) This class of persons, are
particularly distinguished from all others by the names of
swine,vipers,(l) wolves, (m) dogs, (n) beasts, (0) serpents, (p)
and the like. This most auful truth we daily find con
firmed by continual experience; why then should we
wonder, or be in the least surprised, when we so frequently
hear of so many various acts of villainy, robberies, murders, .
suicides, rapes, burglaries, common insults, cursing, swear
ing, lying, cheating, defrauding, and ruining each other?
Perjuries, and the character merchants, slandering and .
(a) Prov. xi, 21. xvi. 5 Heb. x. 30, 31 (b) I Sam, ii, 30.’
Prov. i. 7. Luke x 16. I Thess. iv. 8. (c) Exod. xxxii, 26, &c. *
(d) Rom. ix, 22. (e) Psalm x, 7. (f) Psalm lix, 12, 13.
Prov.zii, 22. Hosea iv, 2. Eph. iv,25. Psalm ci, 5. (g) Rom. iii,
13, 14, 15, 16. James iii,8. (h) Psalm Iviii, 2, 4. Prov. x,6, 11.
(i) Psalm xx?v, 10, xxxvi, 4. Prov. vi., 18, x, 23. (k) Rom. xi,28.
Phil. iii, 18, 19. () Matt, vii, 6 Job xx, 16. Isaiah lix, 1,2,3,
4, 5, 6,7. Matt. iii, 7, xii,34, xxiii, 33. (m) Matt. vii, 15, x, 16.
* Luke x, 3. Acts xx,29. (n) Phil.iii, 2. Rev. xx, 15.
(o) I Cor. xv, 32. II Peter ii, 12. Jude 10. (p) Matt. xxiii, 33.
Gal. V, I9, 20, 21.
--- in-www.ii. via iwi i riv-ta-wi-Lº -
injuring their neighbours (when in company with those
polite heathens who form the circle of their acquaintance,)
by various acts ofdefamation? (this being their daily practice)
together with all kinds of violence and injustice, which is so
frequently committed amongst us by these sons of Belial, (a)
and the workers of iniquity 2 (b) Which doth induce me to
inquire what path can we pursue, or where can we ever
go with safety 2 Are not our persons, property, our cattle,
both great and small, our lives, and even all and every thing
that we have, continually in jeopardy every hour? (c) What
laws enacted or made in any kingdom or state have ever
as yet been able to prevent or stop this most grievous and
growing evil? For are not these most diabolical characters
hereinbefore mentioned, continually seeking for the means to
complete our ruin and destruction, either by public insult,
private injuries, robberies, and the like—as daily experience
doth fully prove and testify? And who are there amongst
ms, whether male or female, that is exempt from these evils,
Akc. while they live in this world, that lieth in wickedness? (d)
But, in order to mitigate, and give you a speedy and present
relief, under all these great and most grievous calamities,
&c. I have written this book and sent it amongst you, in
order that you may each ofyou, know where to obtain help in
the time of need, which they say “is a friend indeed;" and
the more sensible you are of your wants and necessities, &c.
the more welcome and acceptable this small treasure will be .
unto you; by which you are most fully informed, that ifyou
are ever deprived of your character or reputation, by any
malicious act of defamation, or if your house or premises
have been robbed, or if any ofyour horses, beasts, sheep, or
any of your cattle, whether great or small, have been
stolen out of your fields, &c. or if you have been assaulted
on the road by any highwayman, housebreaker, or footpad,
&c. and you are thus robbed of any part of your property,
we can, by this our said divine art, immediately pursue all
such thieves, robbers, and swindlers, even to the uttermost
parts of the earth, and most fully oblige and compel them
to make you full satisfaction, at the forfeiture of their lives,
by the great virtue of the army of heaven: (e) by which
means those silver watches, cloth, silver spoons, and various
(a) Judges xix, 22. Il Sam. xxxviii, 6. I Kings xxi, 10.
! Sam, ii, 12. (6) Psalm xcii, 7,9, oxli,9, 10, Prov.x, 29,xxi, 15.
(º)1 Cor. xv, 30, (d) 1 John v.,19,&c. (e) Exod, xx, 15,
:5
iń.
:
.
.
––––1 - - ------------- --
other articles (as is well known) that were stolen at Belton,
Rauceby, Welby, Boothby, Louth, and in different parts of
this º were recovered again, and the thieves duly
punished, by the established laws ofheaven, until they had
made such satisfaction as was required of them, even to the
great astonishment of all those who live round about
them. (a)
Observe, that if you wish to obtain more help and assist
ance herein, and also to make this your work and operation
still more strong and powerful, in order to lay a more pow
erful and still greater punishment and correction on the
thief, you should, in this case, let your husband or wife,
children, or servants, friends, relations, or any of your
domestics, each of them daily wear and use this Holy Con
seerated Lamen, for, and on your behalf, for the more peo
ple you thus employ in this Celestial Court of Justice, the
sooner you will thus obtain the desired end, intent, and
purpose; and we can supply you with as many of these
valuable articles as you may please to order from this our
office aforesaid, at one guinea each, when the same is duly.
paid for, on the shortest notice, at any time whatsoever. As
we all know that five, or six, or more people, can always do
more work than one single, man, in any kind of business,
and the expenses are always laid and charged on the thief at
the forfeiture of his life; so that he is obliged to pay you
the same again before you set him at liberty, if you require
him so to do; and we wish also to further inform you and
all your friends, &c. that in this our said Celestial Court of
Justice, we shall continue to daily render unto you our
spiritual, ecclesiastical, and common law, in all cases and
causes of Nisi Prius, and also in all cases of felony of every
description; which will be tried, proved, and executed b
the established laws of heaven; when and where we shal
proceed regularly through all the various departments of the
magistrate, attorney, º; judge, jailor, and exe
cutioner; and duly punish all offenders at the forfeitures of
their lives, except they make full and perfect satisfaction in
(a) Mich. v. 15. Ezek. xxxv. 17. Luke xxi.22. Rom. iii. 5. Kii. 19.
Heb. x. 30. Job v. 8, 9, 10, 11. xxiii. 4. Psalm xxxvii. 5, 6, 7,40.
Prov. xvi. 3, 7, 16, 20, 33. Deut. 1, 17. Psalm xxxv. 23. cxl. 12, 13.
Isaiah xli. 21, 22. I. 7, 8, ii. 22. Jer. xi. 20. xx. 12. xxii. 16. i. 34.
li. 36. Gen. xviii. 14. Exod. Kviii. 26. Deut. xvii. 8, 13. Jer. xxºxii.
17, 27. I Sam. ii. 30. Prov. i. 7. Actsriii.41. Luke x. 16. I Thess.
iv. 8. John. iii. 27. v. 19, 30. viii. 28. ix. 33. James i. 17. Phil. ii.
12, 13. iv. 6. Psalm 1. 15. Mat, xix. 26, &c.
due time; and likewise save many hundreds of pounds in
all litigations and lawsuits; and also in the prosecution of
felons, for in this Court we are sure to meet with justice,
without bribery or corruption. If any man should happen
to be offended at any of these our proceedings herein, and
find himself in a disposition for an open rebellion against
heaven, we would advise him to make his will before he
ever makes the attempt to oppose us; for in such a case, his
*ime will be but short, as the army of heaven, (which I know
how to command, and who doth all my work in all my
various departments) will never admit of any opposition or
resistance at any time whatsoever, as we can prove and well
substantiate by several sufficient examples, facts, cases, evi
dences, proofs, theſis, robberies, &c. now in our possession
in our office, which will be laid before any lady or gentle
man for their inspection, at any time when required. See
my Key to the Wiseman's Crown, page 31, No. 597; and
observe, that the more public you make your Holy Conse
crated Lamen, and also the robbery you have suffered and
sustained, the better it will be for you, as by so doing the
thief may chance to hear of it; and, by that means, will
much increase the effect of the same.
In this said Celestial Court (where we shall always meet
with justice), bad debts may also be recovered, amounting
unto any sum, if the said debtor has only property sufficient
to pay or discharge the same ; if our never failing Holy Con
secrated Lamens, which are here daily made and prepared on
every lawful subject, matter, and thing whatsoever; which
being made for that purpose, are only strictly used accord
ing to such directions as are always delivered with the same;
for any man that gets into your debt without having intent
or hopes to pay the same, is no better than a common thief,
and he ought to be proceeded against in this Court accord
ingly. Where injured females may also have their seducers
duly punished, and brought from any part of the world,
who have either injured their persons or property, violated
or broken their promises, or have in any way and manner
ill treated or deceived them, at any time whatsoever, who
will now, by virtue of this our divine art, be most fully
obliged and compelled to return and make them such satis
faction as they may require of them. In like manner may
be brought to their duty and obedience, all apprentices who
have run away from their masters; all wives who have left
*nd eloped from their husbands, or husbands from their
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 33.
º
wives: and also how to enable you to overcome all your
public and private enemies, who have ever injured your per
son, property, character, or reputation, &c. at any time
whatsoever, in order to make you full satisfaction for the
same. (a) And for your further benefit I would now wish
to recommend your attention
TO THE GUARDIAN OF THE POOR. . .
From the Treasury of Wisdom. (b)
Seeing that it is now well known that you are continually
in the greatest danger of suffering either by iinsult, robbery,
rapine, murder, or by public calamities, tumults,commotions,
&c. at this present unhappy dangerous period; being also
liable to have your houses and premises set on fire by incen
diaries, &c. so that you now continually stand in jeopardy
every hour; all of which you are also more fully informed
of by the late dreadful eclipses of the luminaries, and also
the present position of the heavenly bodies; which is a suf
ficient warning unto every person, (except Heathens, who
will be left to suffer both in this world and also in that
which is to come,) we, therefore, now beg leave to recom
mend to your most serious attention OUR CELESTIAL PRo
Tections; which will guard, defend, save, and protect
your houses, persons, lives, and property, and all you have,
from ruin and destruction by fire, and all other accidents;
from the rapacious hands of all thieves, robbers, and swind
lers, and also from the power and malice of all your
enemies, &c. by whom your lives and property are now
daily in the most eminent danger, and also from all evil spi
rits and wicked men. But, being thus daily protected and
defended by the great power, force, and virtue of the
most glorious army of heaven, &c. you need fear no foe.
These most valuable articles are daily sold here at ouroffice,
price only one guinea each. See our Grand Celestial Arca
num, for the benefit of the ladies and all females in general;
which is herein before mentioned, making any lady amiable,
beautiful, lovely, handsome, &c. in the sight of any man by
the rules of art; which will alsosave,protect, and defendthem
at all times and in all places, when they would not other
wise be able to help and defend themselves; which has been
often proved and are warranted good and substantial. See
our Cabinetof Wealth, page 11, and also page 55, ofthis book,
-
-
C4 BOOK OF MIRACLES.
A certain tradesman, who lives about fifty miles from my
residence, came to my house some time since, and informed
me that he had been robbed, and produced the following
hand bill; which I keep in my office for the inspection of
those ladies and gentlemen who may wish to see the
same, viz.
“Ten Guis Eas Reward.—Lost, but supposed to be
stolen, on Saturday last, the 25th instant November ; be
tween the hours of 4 and 6 o'clock in the afternoon, at Mr.
7". Foreman's, the Marquis of Granby, in Louth; a Black
Bill Case, containing Bank of England and Provincial Notes
to the amount offorty-eight, or fifty pounds, &c. A otice is
therefore hereby given, that whoever willgive information so
that the said property may be again restored, or will produce
evidence which may implicate and convict the person or per
sons suspected, so that he, she, or they may be brought tojus
fice, shall immediately receive the reward of Ten Guineas,
together with all attendant expences.”
This said tradesman then desired to have some of my
Holy Consecrated Lamens, in order to prosecute this offender
in our Celestial Court of Justice; for which purpose, I
made him the same, and he took these articles with him,
which, I suppose, was used by some of his family, accord
ing to directions; for sometimes the thief or offenders will
come forward at first, as soon as they find any thing the
matter with them; while at another time, they will be ob
stinate and stand it out to the last extremity, and so it was
in the present case, for we never could have had a more
obstimate offender than this was, at any time whatsoever;
she seemed more inclined to give up the ghost rather than
confess: But this was more than she was able to do, for, f
believe she would have lived while now, if she had not
caused me to receive some satisfaction in regard to this mat
ter, for the thief can never die while the Angelic Ministers
of Heaven who doth all my work, are perfectly satisfied;
but it was so long before she would give the least hint of
this nature, that the plaintiff grew impatient, and sent me
a most infamous letter, written, I suppose, by some wise
acre who was much better versed in the art of scurril:e
than he was in the law ; and who may think himself fortuº
nate that he came off with a whole skin and escaped flog
ºng; to which I returned an immediate answer by return
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 35
º
º
ºf
ſ:
4:
º
ſº
ſºl\
#
that I have not been favoured with any moreof his ignorant
epistles ever since that period, (as it seems he preferred
life rather than to suffer death by my superior law) which
was such a reflection upon the Attorney, and such a complete
disgrace to his profession that I shall not give it any place in
this book; I can only say, that the same scurrilous letter is
kept here in our office for the inspection of any lady or gen
tleman who may ever wish to see the same : The language
contained therein, was nothing less than a complete rebellion
against heaven, as they all well knew that the army of hea
ven was to do the work, which they were fully taught by
the articles, &c. they had received from me. This unhappy
deluded tradesman who came to my house for the same, lit
tle thought that by causing that most infamous letter to be
sent unto me, that by that one wicked act and deed, he had
thereby so far incurred the displeasure of the angelic minis
ters of heaven, and filled his house full of the greatest
afflictions; which would, of course, introduce death into his
family. This I well knew would be the consequence, im
mediately as I saw that unfortunate letter, and how all the
world could not save her ; which I could have done very
easy before this letter had been written; but, alas ! they had
now marked their own ruin. Did any person ever fight
against heaven and prosper? For whosoever speaks against
my art, hastens fast to his death and destruction, for the
army of heaven will stand no nonsense with any of them at
any time whatsoever; and when our law is put in execu
tion in this said Celestial Court, it will go forward; while it
brings the offenders to the grave if they do not confess and
make full satisfaction before it is too late. This thief was
as obstinate as the other persons concerned therein were stu
pid, refractory, perverse, and faithless; who, by this their
said rebellion againt heaven, was most severely punished to
their own sorrow. I could never expect to receive any
more letters from them after receiving that last insolent let.
ter, herein before mentioned, dated June 20th, 1816;
which was to them the dearest and most fatal letter they
ever before sent to any person or place in their whole lives,
at any time whatsoever. I had, 6f course, given up all the
thoughts of ever hearing from them again, until I received
the following letter by the post, last February; which is
likewise kept in our office for the Inspection of those ladies
and gentlemen who may ever desire to see the same. The
36 BOOK OF MIRACLES,
“ Feb. 4th, 1817.
“Dear Sir,
“Thecircumstance I have to relate is of a particular nature,
which I shall explain as well as I possibly can: The situa
tion of this person, (who is very near to me) is troubled in a
manner, that she can neither eat, drink, nor sleep, nor get
any rest by day or night. What can be the consequence of
this, God only knows. We are greatly apprehensive that she
is guilty of the lost property 1 sustained, which I made known
to you, when I was at your house. Should her affliction be
occasioned from your erertions for the recovery of the same,
we should be very glad to know, as you certainly are the only
person to whom we can apply for this information, which
I sincerely hope you will let me know by return of post, if
possible, for the sufferings which she at this present time la
tours under is inexpressible. Should this be the case, and
could be removed by any means of your's, we certainly should
feel uncommonly desirous, for to see her in such a suffering
state on that account is most shocking. Do have the goudness
to write me word whether it be the reason or not, as we are
out of all patience to know. Complying with this particular
request, I conclude in haste, your humble servant.
“N. B. I must once more request of you not to fail in
writing.”
Now it appears from this letter, that they thought I had
been doing something myself in this business; but I had
done nothing more towards the same after that day in which
I first delivered those articles, &c. unto them as herein before
mentioned, as I had no occasion so to do; for whenever
any cause is once entered into this our said Celestial Court,
it will proceed and go forward even while the offenders come
to the grave, if they do not make full and perfect satisfaction
in due time; for He who made that law (which was given
unto Moses on Mount Sinai, and which also is recorded for
your benefit in the twentieth chapter of Exodus, and is herein
called the laws of heaven, being delivered by God himself)
will of course always support it to the uttermost, whenever
it is put in execution, at any time whatsoever. I have been
more particular in this case, in order to shew you the most
dangerous effects of an evil tongue, which as St. James saith,
is a little member, and boasteth great things, which de
*
2
..Lºwvaix. ... Wºº'A 4.W.A.A.A.W.M. A.Wººlºº Vº wº
fileth the whole body, and is set on fire ofhell. (a) For
these unhappy people and their friends had just before this
period spoken much against my art, and also railed against
me, when I well knew that they would certainly be paid for
the same; for such an act and deed was sure to lead them
on the high road to ruin, and now they are receiving their
wages for the same. (b) For He who made our laws which
is practised in this Court, saith, that they shall give an ac
count for every idle word, in the day ofjudgment. (c) And
also, that every secret work, and every secret thing shall
be brought into judgment; (d) when every man will be re
warded according to his deeds. (e) I was informed that when
they received my answer to the above mentioned letter this
poor unfortunate woman was a corpse, whom 1 believe
might have been saved if they had not sent me that most
infamous letter last June; for when I first saw the same,
I then expected this would be the most fatal consequence,
as they might have seen by my answer at that period.
Therefore, let them now go and sin no more. (f) Soon after
we had performed this miracle, I received a letter from
another tradesman who lives in the same town, respecting
another robbery, dated March 28th 1817, which he con
cludes by observing, that he hath that opinion—that I can
punish them be where they may ; and, also, that he would
get all the jobs he could for me, at or about that town, &c.
This letter is also kept in our office for the inspection of any
lady or gentleman who may ever desire to see the same,
which most fully proves that they are all in that part of the
country very well satisfied in respect to the strength, force,
power, virtue, and authority of our law; and especially at
that place, now they have also seen the most dangerous conse
quence of treating the same with levity, &c.; which I hope
will be a sufficient warning unto every person who may
feel themselves inclined “tofight against heaven,” for it is a
fearful thing to fallinto “the hands of the living God, who
is a consuming,fire.” (g) . . . *
A certain gentleman who lives in Northamptonshire,
whose flock ofsheep I had saved from diseases and unnatu-"
ral death by the rules of art, sent me the following letter:
(which is also kept in our office for the inspection of any
gentleman who may wish to see the same, which I hope
(a) James iii. 5, 6, (b, Rom. vi. 23. (c) Matt. xii. 36.37.
(d) Ecclesiastes xii. 14. (e) Rom. ii. 6, (f) John viii. 2. (g) Heb.
x 31, xii. 29. - ºt - -
-je. invvinº. v.-va - ini in aviatº
will be received as a sufficient challenge without the insertion
of any person's name herein, because there is a certain deli
eacy required in all subjects of this nature.)
“April, 28th, 1817.
“IXear Sir,
“I received your's in due time, and hope it will have the
desired effect, and I have reason so far to believe it. will.
My father occupies a farm about five miles from his resi
dence, from which some evil disposed person or persons have
in the night about a month past, stolen the share, coulter,
cock, and other iron-work from his plough; and the sway
trees, and gears from his harrows : And again, on Satur
day night, or early on Sunday morning last, the 26th or
27th instant, they did steal the new coulter, shares, and
cock of the same plough, and also part of the iron-work of
three gates, and my father is very desirous of having them
restored, if you can do it, for which I inclose you a one
pound note. I am, Sir, your obedient servant.”
Here I found that I must work another miracle, and pro
ceed to prosecute these abandoned thieves in this our said
Celestial Court of Justice by the established laws of heaven,
which is dignified and is as much exalted above all the laws
of every kingdom under the sun as the heavens are elevated
above the earth, by which law the whole world will be
judged at a future period. Having sent the article required
to apprehend these thieves above mentioned, I received the
following letter, (which is also kept in our office for your
inspection, if you wish to see the same.)
“May, 29th, 1817.
“Dear Sir, 3/
“My father's friend, Mr. C. is now on a visit at his house,
and as he complains ofpeople robbing him of different things,
particularly fire-wood, sawing down his rails, and lopping
his trees, and in a great measure destroying his fences; we
have recommended him to you for a Holy Consecrated La
men to remove this evil, which I will thank you speedily to
send directed to my father, who begs his respects to you, and
he has had a part ofhis plough-irons restored, together with
*ch peace ; the latter has been very much wanting in this
neighbourhood, and a first rate depredator, who has a cow,
”hich jumped over a wall, ran through thick and thin,
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 39
ſ
evould stēp at no fence, and as if she was mad, went from
lordship to lordship to a many miles distance, say eight an
end, kept up the chace for about a week, thereby diverting
his attention into another channel, for she lost all her milk.
I remain, Dear Sir, your's in sincerity.
“ P. S. I have incloseda one pound note.”
t
These letters inform you that I have apprehended thieves,
obliged them to restore their stolen goods, given unto them
also due punishment and proper eorrection; at the same
time saved a flock of sheep, and made an old cow dance a
hornpipe as above mentioned, at more than fifty miles dis.
tance, without having the least communication with them
at any time whatsoever. Don't you call these miracles?
and can you find any other person in the world at this time,
who can do thelike, by the same means? If you can, I wilf
forgive you. I also now wish to inform you, that in this
our said Celestial Court, I receive, prosecute, and enter all
kinds of law-suits, and actions of nisi prius; as the last
action I entered herein, was dated June 16th, entitled an
action entered into our Celestial Court of Justice for a de
fraud and robbery, to recover the sum of fifteen guineas,
together with all expences and costs.
The Army of Heaven versus the Defendant.
By which means some scores of pounds may be saved in a
law-suit, as the offender will not be allowed to neither
eat, drink, nor sleep with any comfort, nor to take any rest
neither by day nor night, while he hath made you full and
perfect satisfaction, agreeable to the established laws of
heaven; for He who made those divine laws will always
support them to the uttermost, whenever they are put in
execution, at any time or place whatsoever; and we also
find by daily experience, that we have much need of such
divine help and assistance, seeing that we are continually
surrounded by such a numerous train of thieves, robbers,
swindlers, and gossiping character merchants, which is
enough to induce us to conclude, that man to man is a devil,
and a raveuing wolf, as daily events do most certainly prove,
if we do" but observe the deceit and treacheries, that one
man invents daily against another; the robberies, thefts,
plunderings, rapes, slaughters, scandals, and a hundred
vipers ofthis nature. The father prosecutes the son, the
40 BOOK OF MIRACLES.
tine and poisonous biting. One flattering friend seeks to
devour another; neither can the guest be safe with his
host. If I had been as well acquainted with the laws of
heaven, and had brought the same to that great perfection
in the year 1810, which I now have at this time, I should
then have made some of these most pernicious vermin trem
ble, and perhaps might have levelled them with the dust
without the least ceremony; but if there be any remnant
left at this period, I will make them a present ofthe follow
ing nut to crack, if it doth not break their teeth; entitled,
An Universal Challenge to the Learned in General. Ifthere
can be found any wise and learned gentleman in any
part of England, Ireland, Scotland, or Wales, that can either
confute, defeat, or prove to befalse and erroneous, any article,
sulject matter, or thing contained in this book, all such per
sons will be entitled to the silver cup ºffered in my Cabinet
of Wealth, page 4; together with a good and beneficial
flagellation into the bargain, without the least respect to
persons, dignities, rank, or titles, whatsoever.
God save the king, AND Defend this NATION:
THE AUTHOR's SONG.
Aſter I was first created, and lord of the universe crown'd,
I gave my address to the Public, and took no less than a
Pound.
It's love, law, trade, and physic, that's all my whole delight,
I'll always attend to their commands both by day and night.
THE TRADES M A N's BEST FRIEND,
- With The
BANK OF HEAVEN.
This most useful and valuable article, being used accord
ing to directions, will bring customers to the tradesman's
house and shop, with ready money in their hands, and good
will in their hearts; and will thereby prevent poverty, dis-,
tress, want, and bankruptcy: and will also save him from
ruin and destruction, and (ifjoined to our celestial protec
tions herein before mentioned) will also save him and his
family from an untimely grave, &c. giving unto him plenty
of work and money in the worst of times, with prosperity
-
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 41
* ...
happy, and prosperous in the world all he remaining days
of hislife, forming the complete man of business, &c. Price
only one guinea each, which are daily sold here, together .
with eleven hundred of the different articles, secrets, mys
teries, and curiosities of our Temple cº Wisdom, which is
mentioned in our Key to the ºf eman's Crºwn, Celestial
Physician, our Young Man's Best Companion, Cabinet of
Wealth, our Complete Herbal and Family Physician. &c.
which will always be sent unto you on the shortest notice
into any part of England, Ireland, Scotland, and Wales,
when the same is duly paid for, and where the poor will be
served on the lowest terms. All these articles, &c. are proved,
and warranted good and substantial. The whole being
calculated to set at liberty all those who are bound by des
pair, desolation, distress, &c, relieve the oppressed, comfort
the afflicted, raise the lowly, help the needy, add an extra
guinea to the tradesman's profits, and bring down the bles
sings of heaven upon all his labours, works, and operations;
enabling every man to pay all his debts, maintain and sup
port his family, feed the hungry, clothe the naked, assist
the unfortunate, give ease to the troubled, increasing their
pleasures, making the miserable happy, transfusing joy into
the hearts of the sorrowful, exalting the affections, raisin
the spirits, teachingthose how to live who do not know how
to exist at this present distressing period, by giving unto
them an immediate relief—enabling them to subdue, resist,
and overcome all kinds of oppositions, and make the trades
man independent of the world, as we are; giving unto them
E. of mind, prosperity, pleasure, happiness, and feheity,
oth in this world and also in that which is to come. And
also giving unto them whatever they may hope, wish for;
and desire, agreeable to the will of heaven; exciting mirth
and gladness, pleasing the eye, charming the heart, and
striking the world with wonder! - - - * . "
“He that by the plough would thrive,
“Himself must either hold or drive. .
“For age and want save while you may, - - -
“No morning's sun lasts a whole day. : 2
“Get what you can, and what youget hold, >
“”Tis a stone that will turn all your lead into gold. - - -
“Therefore be ruled by me, I pray,
“Save somethingfora rainy day.”
“There is a tide in the affairs of man, if taken at the
BOOK OF MIRACLES, -
... Remember, that time is money, for he that can earn ten
shillings a day at his labour, and goes abroad, or sits idle at
home, one half of that day, though he spend but sixpence.
during his diversion, or idleness, he ought not to reckon
that the only expence: he hath really wasted, or, rather,
thrown away, five shillings besides.
“Remember, that credit is money; if a man let his
money lay in my hands after it is due, because he has a
good opinion of my credit, he gives me the interest, or so
much as I can make of the money during that time; this
amounts to a very considerable sum, where a man hath
large credit, and also makes good use of it.
Remember, that money is of a prolific or multiplying na
ture, money will produce money, and its offspring will pro
duce more; and so five shillings turned is six, being turned
3gain is seven and three-pence, and so on, till it becomes a
hundred pounds: and the more there is of it, the more it
will produce on every turning; so that the profits rise quick
er and quicker; and he who throws away a crown,
destroys all that it might have produced, even some scores
unds
“Remember, that six pounds a year is but a groat a day
for this little sum; (which may be daily wasted either in
time or expences unperceived) which, on the contrary, if
a proper use be made of the same, he may, on his own se
curity have the constant possession and use ºf £120. So
much in stock, briskly turned by an industrious man, will
always produce the greatest advantage to the tradesman.
Remember this proverb, that the good pay master is lord of
another man's purse, for he who is known to pay punctually
and exactly to the time he promises, may, at any time a
on any occasion, raise all the money his friend can spare.
This is sometimes of great use, next to industry and fru
gality; nothing can contributemore to the raising ofa man in
the world than punctuality and justice in all his dealings.
Therefore, never keep borrowed money one single hour
beyond the time promised, lest the disappointment should
shut up your friend's purse for ever, as the most trifling
actions that affect a man's credit oughtalways to be avoided.
The sound of the hammer at five in the morning, or at
nine at night being heard by a creditor, makes him easy six
months longer;—but if he sees you at a gaming table, or
hears your voice in a tavern, when you should be at work,
**ends for his money the next day, and demands it before
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 4s
it is convenient for you to pay him. Beware of thinking all
your own that you possess, and ofliving accordingly, this isa
mistake that many people who have credit fall into-but in
order to prevent this, always keep an exact daily account of
both your expences, and also ofyour daily income and prºfits.
(which hath been my daily practice for these last twenty
years, and I must acknowledge that I have always found
the good effects of the same). For if you will only just
take the trouble at first to numerate particulars, it will dis
cover unto you how wonderfully small trifling expences
mount up to a large sum. By which you will also discern
what might have been (and also what may for the future
be) saved; without causing any great inconvenience.—In
short, the way to obtain riches, (if you desire it) is as plain
as the way to market: which depends chiefly on two things,
viz. industry and frugality; and take care that you waste
neither time nor money, but daily make the best use of both;
if you take care of the shillings and pence, the pounds will
take care of themselves, and if you also take good care of
the hours and days, the weeks, months, and years, will also
take care of themselves. I have always found by constant
experience, that any business being first well contrived, is
more than halfdone; for a sleeping fox catches no poultry;
there will be sleeping enough in the grave, And, also, that
lost time is but seldom found again, for that which we ge
nerally call time enough, always proves little enough ; for
sloth makes all things difficult, while industry makes them
easy. He that rises late must trot hard all day, and shall
scarce overtake his business at night—for laziness travels so
slow, that poverty soon overtakes him. Drive your busi
ness, but let not that drive you; for early to bed, and early
to rise, is the way to become healthy, wealthy, and wise.—
Industry need not wish, while he who lives on a vain hope,
will die fasting—For we find that there is nothing to be
done or accomplished under the sun without labour. He
that hatha trade hath an estate, and he that hath a profes
sion, hath an office and profit with honour; but then the
trade must be worked at, and the profession well followed,
or they will not enable you to pay rent and taxes. For at
the working-man's house, hunger looks in, but dares not
enter: for industry pays debts, while despair increases them.
Diligence is the mother of good luck, as Solomon saith,
the diligent hand maketh rich, (a) while he that dealeth
44 BOOK OF MIRACLES:
with a slack hand becometh poor. For God gives all things to
industry. Then plough deep, “while thesluggard sleep,” and
you shall have plenty, while others shall have reason to
complain of hard times. Therefore, keep working while it
is called to day, for you do not know how much you may be
hindered to morrow ; and never leave that business to be
done to morrow which you can do to day; for since you
are not sure of a single hour, throw not that away. How
many are there who daily live by their wits, and who often
break from a want of a stock in hand—while industry gives
comfort, plenty, and respect. Keep your shop well, and then
your shop will keep you. For it sometimes happens that the
eye of a master will do more work than both his hands; and
more especially if his head be of any reasonable length, for
the want of care generally doth more damage than the want
of knowledge. If you do not overlook your workmen,
you may just as well leave them your purse open; for the
trusting too much to the care of others hascompletely ruined
many a man; for if you would be wealthy, think of being
also careful and saving. For -
“Women, wine, game, and deceit, -
“Make the wealth small, and the wants great.”
For all that which maintains one vice, would bring up two
children. And if you would wish to know the value of
money, only just go and try to borrow a little. “For he that
goes a borrowing goes a sorrowing,” and, indeed, so doth he
who lends it untosuch people, when he goes to try to get it
back again; for pride, that dines on vanity, supson contempt,
and often breakfasts with plenty, dines with poverty, and
sups with infamy, creates envy, and hastens misfortunes,
for it is hard for an empty bag to stand upright. —Creditors
have generally much better memories than debtors; who
are also a kind of a superstitious sect, great observers of set
or appointed days and times. So that those have but a
short Lent who owe money to be paid at Easter; for
expences are always so constant and certain, that it is much.
easier to build two chimnies than to keep one in fuel;
rather go to bed supperless than to rise in debt; for to al
ways do unto others as you would wish to be done by, is
the first fundamental law of natural justice. But seeing
that a man may sow, and he may reap, and he may also
givehis whole labour therein to very little purpose, for some
*mes every thing appearsto go backward with him, just as
. BOOK OF MIRACLES. 45
remember that it is God alone who giveth the increase. In
such a case let him take our Tradesman's best Friend (herein
before mentioned) in his hand, which is daily sold at our
office, price only one guinea each which will serve him as
a ticket of admission into OUR BANK OF HEAVEN,
where he will obtain a present relief, and all his wants will
be bountifully and amply supplied, all his difficulties remo
ved, and his unhappy mind will thereby be restored to his
former happy state of peace and tranquility; when and
where he will also be taught how to obtain the blessings of
heaven upon all his works and operations; he will then also
remember that Job suffered great poverty,’ &c.; and was
afterwards more prosperous than ever he was before that
period: here he will also find the many mostgracious pro
mises which are suited unto all his wants; which are scat
tered throughout the Holy Bible, for his daily use and be
nefit. Thus a divine faith will always feed on thesame,
ever looking unto Jesus Christ to fulfil them, while a human
faith cannot receive any profit from any of them. As for
example, we will now suppose you to be in distressing cir
cumstances, and while musing over the same, you open your
Bible with an anxious heart, when this tert meets your eye:
“Call upon me in the day of trouble, I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me.” (a) Here you will see a most gra
cious promise, made by a faithful God, without limitation
or condition, directed unto every person, who either reads or
hears the same, which is applicable unto every time oftrou
ble; which requires only the prayer of faith for deliver.
ance. (b) Jesus Christ is the christian's banker, and the
scripture promises are the real bank notes of heaven, and
the riches ofbelievers, who doth not live upon the stock in
hand, but daily traffic with this currency; for wherever this
divine faith is found, it takes these notes to Christ's tank,
and receives the cash; while human faith cannot traffic
with this kind ofcurrency; it reads the notes, and owns them
to begood, but dares not bring them to this bank for pay
ment, seeing that no kind of faith can act upon God,
but that which cometh from him alone, as the Holy Scrip
tures doth most fully prove and testify, (c), For the just
shall live by faith, (d) and they that fear him shall lack
(a) Psalml. 15. Matt. vi. 25.34. Luke xi. 9. 13. Matt. vii. 7. 12.
Luke xviii. 1. 8. xii. 22.32. Phil. ii. 12. I3. iv. 6. Mark ix. .23. xi.
23.24. (b) James v. 15. (c) Matt. xvii. 20. 21. ix. 22.xy. 28. Mark
Y. 34. Luke vii. 53. (d) Rom; i. 17. Gal. iii. 11. Heb. x. 38.
nothing; (a) they shall want no manner ofthingthat is good;
he will feed them in the time offamine. (b) It was at this
bank that the great and pressing wants of Elijah and the poor
Widow was amply supplied, with many others. (c) For
here they will obtain their supplies in due season; (d) but
let this always be remembered: that every man is required
to work—otherwise he should not eat. (e) For it is also
written, that by the sweat of your face, you shall eat your
bread, tillyou return into the ground; (f) and it is your duty
to ask for the same every day: (g) and also to cast all your
care upon him, for he careth for you; (h) for by thus trust
ing in God, you will thereby engage and bind him by virtue
of his most gracious promises, to provide for you: for we
all know that even an honest man doth always think him
self highly concerned not to fail those who depend upon,
and place their trust in him; and certainly God doth so
much more. Therefore, what cause hath any christian ever
to fear want, poverty, or distress, or any other affliction,
who daily make proper application to this bank for relief?–
For if any poor man could but obtain a faithful promise
from any wealthy person, that he would never suffer him
to want, would he not then rest easy, and be happy and
comfortable in his mind? Yet we all know that a man
may fail in his promise; he may either become poor himself,
by some accident or misfortune, and thereby not be able to
make it good; or he may prove false, and not be willing to
make good his word; but we know that God cannot be
subject neither to such impoverishment nor deceit, and
therefore, how great and vile an injury do we offer unto
him, if we dare not trust as much upon his kind promises,
as we would that of a man, and cannot put as much hope
and confidence in our great Creator as we would in a fellow
mortal. But, on the contrary, let us cast our burthen upon
the lord, and he will sustain us, (i) for here you may obtain
whatever you may hope, wish for, or desire, agreeable to
the will of heaven, and at the same time may have all your
sorrows, troubles, and afflictions duly removed, and become
fortunate, happy, and prosperous in the world; your
several wantsbeing thus supplied, your danger and difficulties
removed by this means, and also by virtue of our divine
art, by which many have been saved from ruin and
, (...)Psalm xxxiv. 9. 10. (b) Psalm xxxiii. 18. 19.(c) I King's Xvii.
6. 10, 11., 12.18.16... (d) Psalm cºlv. 15: 16. (e) II. Thess. ii.10.
(f) Gen. iii. 19. (g) Mait. vi. 11. (h) I Peter v. 7, (i) Psalm ly, 52.
- book of MIRACLEs. 47
: 72
destruction, andalsofromanuntimely grave,whowerebefore
exceedingly miserable and unfortunate in the world (a)
fin short, here parents may make ample provision for their
children, by thus taking all the various evils, perils, and
dangers out of their nativities, so as to prevent the same,
making them fortunate, happy, and prosperous in the
world. (b) Here may children also obtain the means of
protecting, defending, helping, and assisting their pa
rents, (c) as well as husbands their wives, and wives their
husbands, &c. (d) through all the different vicissitudes
and stages; and also against all the various perils and dan
gers of this fife. Where the tradesman may also receive the
article herein before mentioned, that will bring custom to
his shop without soliciting any person's favours whatever:
and also give him the greatest increase and success in busi
Hess; who will also thereby be safely delivered from the
danger of want, poverty, distress, bankruptcy, &c. While
the travellers may also be daily protected and defended
from all the perils and dangers to which they may ever be
liable to meet with in their journies at any time whatsoever.
Where the ladies also may obtain an inestimable treasure
that will save their lives, and preserve them when in the
greatest danger, as herein before mentioned, and give unto
them prosperity, pleasure, happiness, and felicity, bothin
this world, and also in that which is to come. Here the
scholar or student may also be conducted step by step, even
from the lowest to the highest branches of learning ever
known or practised by any person whatsoever, since the
creation of the world, Here the lover may also receive,
have, and most fally enjoy the means of obtaining the whole
and sole object of their love and affection, at any time what
soever; together with an article that will give them a good,
faithful, honest, loving, kind, virtuous, and affectionate
partner for life, with happiness and felicity after marriage,
... and also how to daily receive, have, and most fully enjoy,
increase, and augment the most sincere love, and pure
affection of those unto whom they have heretofore given
ºas herein before mentioned. Here the farmer
may also be taught how to procure the greatest produce of
the fruits of the earth, by bringing down the blessings of
heaven uponthesame; (e) and also how to obtain riches
(a) Phil. iv. 18. (b) Prov. xxii. 6. Psalm xxxiv. 11. 14 Prov. xvii.
6. xxxi. 28, (e) vi. 1. Col. iii. 20.. (d) I Cor. vii. 3. 4: 10. 11.
48 BOOK OF MIRACLES.
and wealth by ourart of making one single grain of corn or
wheat produce more than half a bushel of the same grain in
one year. The price of this article is only one guinea—
wherethey, together with the publican, thewholesalebrewer,
and any private family may have our incomparableart ofbrew
ing, which will teach, and shew them how to keep the best
ale in the town, at the least expence, which soon saves its
price; together, with the art of making fourteen gallons of
good ale from one bushel of malt. (proved) Price only one
guinea. Where may also be had, the best method of re
storing sour ale to its former state of perfection. (proved)
Price one guinea each; see my Cabinet of Wealth, page 14.
Where the grazier nay also obtain an article that will most
fully prevent the loss of cattle both great and small, by the
use of THE CATTLE PRESERVER : which is an ines
timable treasure for all farmers and graziers, which will
keep and preserve all their cattle both great and small.
This most valuable article, we have daily on sale, which
ought to be kept and daily used by every grazier, dealer,
&c. (who wish to have, and enjoy prosperity and success
with their cattle) in order to save them from diseases, and
also from an unnatural death; for how many have there
been ruined by the loss of their cattle?–While others have
received the great benefit of our cattle preserver, which is
also daily sold here, price only one guinea; which will
always be safely packed up and sent into any part of the
united kingdom, on the shortest notice, by return of the
coach, when the same is duly paid for without delay. (a)
An eminent grazier who lives in Northamptonshire,
nearly fifty miles distance from me, sent me the following
letter, dated -
“April, 7th, 1817, *
“ Sir,
“I have been very unfortunate in my live stock. The case
is simply this: My ewes have this season brought an unusual
number of lambs; but while I was from home, 1sustained a
considerable loss within this last fifteen months amongst my
sheep, as is not paralleled by any of my neighbours. If
they all died of one complaint, I should then attribute it to
the nature ofthe soil, or the season, but they diealmost every
(*)Psalm civ. 14. Ezek. xxxiv. 17. Psalm 1. 10, 11, 12.
-
way, and some so sudden, that I cannot discover what is the
* causethereof, even when I have examined the inside, but that
* may be from a want of discernment on my part. Now, sir,
* I request you will, with God's assistance, remove this evilfrom
* me, and give me good luck amongst my sheep, and other
* cattle, and indeed, my business in general; for though I am
infortunate, more particularly among my sheep, which is the
* most important part of my business, I would include the
* other sorts of stock, and my business in general, because to
" remove the evil from one part of the concern, and let it
* prevail in another, would not profit me; as I daily sustain
losses ; request you will lose no time, but speedily stop it; I
" have inclosed the demand for the performance of the
s above, &c.” - - -
* Now having received this letter, I found it necessary to
perform another miracle, in order to save this flock ofsheep,
# and all his other cattle, both great and small, from all
# diseases, and an unnatural death; and also, to give him
# prosperity and success in his business; without having the
a feast communication with them, at the distance ofnear fifty
a miles, (which I could have done just as easy atfifty thou
º, sand miles distance if required:) and I can also do the same
a for you on the same terms, whenever you desire to haveand
enjoy the same benefit; which I sent unto him by return of
post, after which I received the following letter, dated
º April 28th, 1817.
Dear Sir, -
“I received your's in due time, and hope it will havethe
desired effect, and I have reason so far to believe it will, &c.
These two original post letters are also kept in our office,
forthe inspection ofany grazier, or dealer,&c. who may ever
wish or desire to see the same, at any time whatsoever. I
believe you would be at a loss to find even any thing ofthis
nature too hard or difficult for me. Don't you call all these
miracles? If you can show that the same have been done
before, either in this, or in any other kingdom within the
memory ofthe oldest man living, I will then forgive you,
for since then, I have received another letter from the same
grazier, dated May 13th, 1817, wherein he says: “Thathi
Lamen, &c. fully answers the purpose, which you may also
airpetat our office,” 2.
OUR CELESTIAL HOSPITAL OPENED
For the benefit of the Public in general,
Where the sick and the diseased are healed and restored
to their former good state of health, and have their pains
removed, when their danger is great, their hopes but small,
and their recovery becomes doubtful; thus adding the
greatest virtue and power to all their medicines, by bringing
the angelic ministers of heaven into their service, and making
the great Creator of the universe their principal physician,
by the use, power, force, and virtue of our Holy Consecrated
Damens hereinbefore mentioned: even at that most awful
period, when all dissimulation would be in vain, when all
hopes of life and recovery from sickness are lost; and when
the best medicines in the world (being administered alone,)
would notbe ofthe least use, or service to the patient what
soever; which will be hereinafter explained, and proved to
your full and entire satisfaction.
“ Health is the soul that animates all the pleasures of
life, and without it, a man starves at the best of tables, is
poor and wretched in the midst of the greatest treasures;
without health, youth loses all its vigour, beauty all its
charms, music is grating to the ear, conversation disagreea
ble, palaces are prisons, riches useless, honours and atten
dants cumbersome, and crowns themselves are a burden.”
Thus having made great improvements in the regular
course of our practice; by which means we have restored
those to health of body who had baffled the faculty and
first medical skill both in London and Cheltenham; we shall,
therefore, continue to heal the sick and diseased as usual,
and make up, prepare, and send into every part of this
kingdom the best medicines, and never-failing remedies, for.
all kinds of agues, fevers, dropsies, coughs, asthmas, liver
complaints, worms, gravel, consumptions, all nervous afflic
tions, hysteric, and other fits, and also, for every curable
disease incident to the human body. (Observe, that when
ever you shall find the words we, or our, used in any part
of this book, it signifies, myself acting and doing all my
business, by the aid, help, and assistance, and in conjunction
with, the angelic ministers ofheaven, who doth all my work,
* all my various departments, as is hereinbefore mentioned),
º
*
º
|
º
|
º
ſº
As our laborious and most serious attention will always be
given unto all our patients, for the purpose of saving them
from all the horrors of an untimely grave, and as I shall
alwaysmake it my principalstudy to merit their attention and
support, as my Celestial Practiceof Physic hath always been
crowned with the greatest success for these last twentyyears,
both in town and country, by such valuable remedies as
cannot be procured in any other partof this kingdom; which
by virtue of the same, we have frequently performed great
cures, at more than one hundred miles distance, without
ever seeing the patient, (as I shall hereinafter prove :)
when and where the dangers have been great, and the
hopes but small; which I trust, will always entitle me to
that confidence, my continual and unwearied labours for
your relief and benefit, (in those awful moments, when all
dissimulation would be in vain) may justly merit. The
afflicted are also requested to favour me, either with a
personal, or literal application; stating their particular cases,
and send their morning urine, as the physician can never be
too well informed of the state and condition of his patients,
at any time whatsoever. Terms for Water Casting, One
Shilling.
I do also particularly examine the various diseases of my
patients, by the several aspects and positions of the angelic
ministers of heaven at the time of application; which will
always show what part of the body is afflicted, the true
cause, and nature of the disease, whether chronic, or
acute; and also, whether the sick person will die or recover,
&c. with the true and proper nature of the medicine that
ought to be administered and given in each, particular
disease; the natural constitution of the patient, &c. the
whole beingfounded on the holy Scriptures, religion, reason,
philosophy, divinity, mathematics, many years experience,
daily study, and constant practice: (see my Celestial Phy
sician ; andalso, my complete Herbal and Family Physician,
pages, 162, 344, 345, 346, 347, 365, 378,) for by a long
and laborious application to the study of second causes, which
are the spiritual occult, or hidden operations of nature in all
her works, by a contemplation ofthe human structure, with
the principles of life and death, by a most minute investi
ation of the ancient and modern practice of physic, of
hereditary, accidental, and acquired diseases, and by my
many laborious studies in divinity, astronomy, physic,
philosophy, mathematics, and %the occult sciences, I have
2
been most fully enabled to apply to the angelic ministers of
heaven, by whom our bodies are preserved and governed,
for such proper directions and instructions, as Abiathar the
priest, was of old enabled to do by the stars of the Ephod,
(a) even at any distance whatsoever, if I never see the
patient at all, for, by knowing the cause of the disease, the
cure is more than half perfected; for thus, by a right know
ledge of times and seasons, of causes and effects, the sick
have been healed, when least expected. “For no man,”
says Gaien, “can reasonably demy, but that the natural
ground of medicine and disease depend much upon astral
influx, and elementary impression; and hence it is, that by
the nativity or decumbiture of the patient, we are fully
enabled to discern both the cause and conclusion of the
disease, and by considering the quality of the principal
aspects in airy, watery, earthy, and fiery signs, all doubts
and difficulties are removed; a plain and obvious mode of
treatment presentsitself to our view, and furnishes a striking
proofofthe wise oeconomy of the Supreme Being, in govern
ing this inferior world, by the influence and energy of the
superior bodies, whose very minutiae as well as more mag
nificent phenomena, are invariably obedient to a regular
and unerring law.” Thus, another medical gentlemán,
when speaking of the signs of death, most fully informs us,
in his Semeiotica Uranica, (now in my possession,)page 125,
by scientific terms: “That if in the decumbiture of the
patient, the lord of the eighth be in the mid-heaven, and
there afflict the lord of the ascendant, the physician will, by
a shrewd mistake, instead of curing, go near to kill.” Thuis
it is a most grievous calamity, which actually deprives a
many thousands of our fellow mortals of their most precious
lives, because all these divine, unerring, and never failing
rules, which are founded on the holy Scriptures, (and well
supported by truth and constant experience) are not more
generally known and practised; for if you despise or are
ashamed of heaven, or will refuse the help and assistance of
the powers of heaven, why, certainly you can never be so
mad or insane as to ever expect to go there; however,
from this cause alone, I am certain that more than half of
the number of our fellow mortals might frequently be
saved and duly preserved, from all the horrors ofan untimely
grave; for a conjunction between the lord of the eighth,
and the lord of the ascendant, is “ as mortal a sign as the
(a) I Sam. xxx. 7, 8.
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 53
º
º
:
3.
heavens can show;” while, on the contrary, the benevolent
being located in the first, fourth, sixth, and tenth of the
decumbiture, doth fully inform us, that not only our medi
cines will restore the patient to his former good state of
health; but, also, that the physician will gain much eredit
thereby. By this divine art, the most obstinate and dan
gerous diseases have been eradicated and removed, and the
health of the patient restored, even at the distance of some
hundreds of miles, when all hopes seemed to be vanished,
and the recovery of the patient exceedingly doubtful, and
when all the best medicines in the world (beingadminstered
by themselves alone) would have been of no use whatever;
(as we shall hereinafter prove to your full satisfaction); yet,
after all this, the patient has been restored to good health,
by the great virtue of our Holy Consecrated Lamens, (which
are fully explained in our Cabinet of Wealth;) which being
joined to his said medicines, then engaged the most
glorious angelic ministers of heaven in his service; and
also, thereby made the great Creator of the universe his
principal physician, “for when all human refuges doth for
sake us, then will the help of God shine forth.” Why then
will you still remain lingering on a bed of pain and sickness,
and under a complication of most dangerous diseases, which
may snuff out the candle oflife, before it is halfconsumed, and
thus hurry you into an untimely grave? Hasten then, and,
delay not to obtain all these great benefits, which you can
not procure at any other place in this whole kingdom; and
send what sum of money you please, on your application
by post office order, or good bills, for medicines, &c. in your
letter, post paid, with the true state of your case, and they
shall be sent unto you safely packed up by the return of the
coach ; as we make up, prepare, and send out our own
medicines into every part of this kingdom, when the same
is duly paid for, without delay; this will also prevent loss of
time, and save the trouble and expence of journies, as well
as the postage of unnecessary letters of inquiry, &c. for
sometimes delays are dangerous in the most desperate
cases, when your life is at stake, the danger great, and the
hopes small ; therefore, we shall not delay to send unto
you the best and most effectual remedies in our possession, on
the shortest notice, at all times whatsoever. “Did any
man ever fight against heaven and prosper?" Yet, it is a
54 BOOK OF MIRACLES.
cxultingly forward to condemn all that which they do not
understand, and by thus attempting to baffle the secret
operations of nature, the most wonderful works of God,
and the strong influence of the planetary system of the
Pleiades, Arcturus, and Orion, (a) they fully expose the
weakness of their own imaginations, while they also insult
ingly oppose the most glorious host of heaven, (b) “but all
such unhappy, miserable, atrocious, and diabolical charac
ters, will have and receive their full wages in due time;’
“ as some have already thus paid so dear for this their folly
and wickedness,” that they never will be able to do it
again.”
You may also here obtain a most valuable treasure, which
ought always to be had and kept by every family in the
kingdom. Price only one guinea each. -
(a) Job iz, 9, xxxviii. 31. (b) Psalm viii. 3. xix. 1, 2, 3.
Book of MIRACLEs. 35
OUR GRAND MEDICAL ARCANUM,
Consisting of four of our most valuable and principal
medicines, which will heal and most fully eradicate most of
the internal diseases incident to the human body; the whole
forming a small complete and regular family medical chest,
most essentially necessary to be had and kept by every
person in the whole kingdom, viz:—
First, our grand Fever medicine, which is a most excellent
remedy for ſevers of every description.
Secondly, our Philosophical Pills, which is a special
remedy for all bilious and liver complaints, for the scurvy,
dropsy, gout, king's-evil, all diseases of the head and sto
mach, bad digestion, and want of appetite, they purge
phlegm, &c. and permit no hurtful thing to remain in the
body; in short, they cure all the diseases incident to the
human body. Many families have used no other medicine.
Thirdly, our Celestial Pills, which are agreeable to the
palate, and pleasant to the taste, cures most of the diseases
incident to the human body, and destroys all kinds of worms
in the body, cures the venereal disease, stoppage of urine,
gravel in the reins and bladder, violent cholics, leprosy,
asthmas, and all diseases of the lungs, &c. and completely
destroys all crudities which breed worms in the body, opens
all obstructions which prevent the circulation of the blood,
consumptions; they will also make young ladies strong,
vigorous, healthy, and fresh coloured, &c.
Fourthly. Our Balsam of Life, which is grateful to the
stomach, strengthens and fortifies the heart and liver, and
wonderfully preserves the body in health to extreme old
age; it cures bad appetites, makes a good digestion, gives a
long wind and clear voice, an acute sight, a good colour and
complexion, and suffers no offensive thing to remain in the
body, as wind, phlegm, &c. Cures an offensive breath, in
short it promotes good health of body, preservation of spirits
vigour of mind, &c. N. B. Please to observe, that all
these most valuable medicines which compose this small
Medical Repository, will keep good for any length of time;
56 BOOK OF MIRACLES.
mortals from all the horrors of an untimely grave: Which
will always be safely packed up and sent by the return of
the coach into any part of England, Ireland, Scotland, and
Wales, on the shortest notice without delay, when the same
is duly paid for, either by the remittance of good bills, or
post office orders.
Here may also be had more than eleven hundred of the
different articles, secrets, mysteries, and curiosities of our
Temple of Wisdom, which we have daily on sale, at various
prices. See our Key to the Wiseman's Crown, and also our
Cabinet of Wealth, Celestial Physician, &c. &c. Any part
of the above-mentioned Medical Arcanum, may be had
separate in any quantity, and will be sent unto any person
on the most reasonable terms, who may not find it con
venient to purchase the whole of the same; but, remember,
that no letter nor parcel will be taken in or reeeived at this
office at any time whatsoever, except the same be duly
Post paid.
Directions how to take those Medicines which compose our
Grand Medical Arcanum, viz.
As,first, whenever you perceive any symptoms of afever
of any kind, then take one or two large table spoonsful of
the Fever Medicine the last thing at night at going to bed,
and also at any other time in the night if you find it neces
sary; even while those said symptoms have totally disap
peared, having first well shaken this bottle.
Secondly, Whenever you are costive and find that you
require purgatives, then take two of our Philosophical Pills
early in the morning fasting, two or three times a week,
according as you may find it necessary; which perfectly
cures all such diseases as are appropriated to the same as
aforesaid, omitting the Celestial Pills at that time.
Thirdly, Or take two or three of the Celestial Pills the
last thing at night at going to bed, two or three times a
week, as your necessity may require; which cures all such
diseases as are appropriated to the same as aforesaid, omitting
the Philosophical Pills at that time. -
... Fourthly, Take half a wine glass of our Balsam of Life as
*ften in the course of the day as you may think proper, but
if you find it too strong for you in its natural state, then
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 57
Camomile Tea, which cures all such diseases as are appro
priated to the same, as herein before mentioned : But, when
your danger is great, your recovery doubtful, your case ex
ceeding difficult, your pain and sickness strong, your state
efbody and constitution weak, the hopes but small, and there
appear to be but little chance to save your life, then, in such
a case, I would recommend the use of our Holy Consecrated
Lamens aforesaid, to be daily used by all or most of your
family and friends on your behalf; which may deliver you
from the brink of the grave, call you back to life, (a) as it
was the case with Hezekiah, who was only a mortal man
like you, (b) and thus restore you to your former good
state of health, at a time when least expected; which will
be hereinafter proved. (c) See my Key to the Wiseman's
Crown, page 28, No. 577. Thousands of our fellow mor
tals have, for centuries past, fallen unhappy victims to those
many deficiencies found in the common practice of physic;
which, never could, nor never will be, able to give us that
relief and benefit which we have a right to expect. It is
now, therefore, time that something better was attempted :
And am I the only person in the world that is to do this
great work? Then I will do it, and that most effectually,by
God's help and assistance; and contradict me that dare at their
peril; for I say again, that thousands have turned their pale
faces to the wall, issuing out their mostgrievous heavy sighs,
groans, lamentations, and most bitter complaints; being
stretched out on their languishing beds of pain and sickness,
surrounded with weeping friends, and also with all the hor
rors of an untimely grave; while even now, by a proper
use of these our remedies aforesaid, all their most sanguine
hopes and desires are most fully gratified in this present day
and generation, and they are healed of their sicknesses, dis
eases, and bodily infirmities, and restored to their respective
families, and also to their former good state of health, by
the great power and virtue of this our emparalleled and un
precedented scientific celestial Practice of Physic, and ous
Grand Medical Arcanum aforesaid, which is daily made and
prepared here, and at no other place in the kingdom.
Therefore, all those ladies and gentlemen who are inclined
and disposed to exercise their humanity, benevolence,
and charity, would do well to cause to be circulated
%3 a few thousand printed copies of this most useful book,
(a) II Kings xxx. 5, 6, 7, 8, 11. (b) Isaiah xxxviii. 5, 7, 22.
* -\ 1------- - ºr- * * ºr re--_º -- a- ºr a ºn
58 BOOK OF MIRACLES.
for the great relief and benefit of both the rich and the
poor, both in town and country; and not only throughout
the whole and every part of this kingdom, but also to
daily circulate the same in foreign climes, so that all
the nations under the sun might thus thankfully receive
the great benefit of our most wonderful life-giving medicines,
Holy Consecrated Lamens, &c. (which now stands unrivalled
in the world), so that all of them may thereby be restored
to their former good state of health, ease, tranquillity, and
comfort, who will not only thereby be most fully enabled to
obtain a good healthy constitution of body, and peace of mind,
which is the greatest blessing we can obtain in this life; but
they will also hereby have, and enjoy, an opportunity of
spending all their remaining days in various acts of praise
and thanksgiving for such inestimable mercies, gifts, and
tlessings thus received, and daily enjoyed by them; so that
they may also make some provision for that great happiness
and felicity which is prepared for them in those happy man
sions of bliss and immortality, “where the wicked cease
jrom troubling, and the weary are at rest.” (a)
A certain sick man who lived at the distance of near two
hundred miles from me, lay so dangerously ill, that his life
was despaired of, and that not without great cause thereof;
during which period, he was visited by a worthy young
man, of Stalbridge, in Dorsetshire, (for whom I had hereto
fore done some business) who thus finding his sick friend in
that most dangerous and desperate state and condition, he
undertook to write to me for my advice for this said sick
man, and on his behalf, from whom I received the following
post letter, which is also kept here in our office for the in
spection of any lady or gentleman who may desire to see the
ºarne
“February 22d, 1814.
“Blessed Sir, -
“Theinclosed case is a statementofsymptoms of my neigh
bour's infirmity, which is sent for your judgment and advice,
*companied with an order for your first Holy Consecrated
*ºnen. Its commands you willfindby a post office order,
*** 11s. 6d. whose clinic disease commenced tout seven
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 50
;
º
weeks since, and was preceded by a weakness, cough, short
breath, and sudation; and have since operated by eruberant
spitting of a very phlegmatic foul substance, with pains in
the head, stomach, back, and sides, the two latter more
especially by coughing ; 1 observed, also, the tongue quite
foul, of a whitish nature, which changed to blackness, and
since yellow; the patient is now able to leave the bed,
but not his room ; his appetite is bad, and the memory
impaired. I omitted cold shivers in the clinic commence
7ment.
“I remain, yours, sincerely.”
º -
Having received this letter, with one guinea for a Holy
Consecrated Lamen, and half a guinea more for my advice;
making in the whole £1. 1 1s. 6d. ; now to send him a
Lamen without medicine, would be just as unreasonable
and absurd as it would be “to set a tailor to make a coat
without cloth.” For we are informed by the Holy Scriptures,
that all those means (which are appointed by the Creator of
the universe, the great physician and giver of health and life)
must be regularly used with praise and thanksgiving, for he
who could have healed the blind man by only a single
word or touch, &c.; yet, to show that all proper means must
always be used at all times, and not to be rejected on any
account whatever, “he anointed the eyes of the blind man
with clay, and also commanded him to wash in the Pool of
Siloam. (a) And for me to haye sent this sick man afore
said, even the very best medicines that could be procured or
got in the whole world, if I had sent that without a Lamen,
&c. while he remains in this his most dangerous and des
perate state, it would not havebeenof the least usetohim. I,
therefore, without delay, made up a bow of medicines, and
sent him the same by the return of the coach, together with
an Holy Consecrated Lamen, &c. after which, I received the
following letter, which is likewise kept here in our office for
your inspection, at any time whenever you may desire to see
the same. (You will also observe, that all these letters came
post paid, or otherwise they would have been returned un
233; opened, which is our general rule).
º
º (a) John ix. 6, 7.
10 BOOK OF MIRACLES.
* “ March 29, 1814.
“Blessed Sir,
“Your letter and medicine arrived safely. I saw your
patient last evening, and I have the happiness to inform you,
he told me he had been to work, and that he was at church
last Sunday. Such is the effects of your remedies winder
God, &c.
“I remain, your's, sincerely.”
Now this patient being a christian, and also, whe by this
his serious attention to my directions, he was thus restored
to his former good state of health, though I never saw him,
nor even any thing that came from him, thus I performed
this miracle for him, at a time when least expected: And I
can also do the same for you at any time, whenever you
may require such aid, help, and assistance, if you will only
attend to such advice and directions as will be then given
unto you without delay.
Some time since, my Son lived with a Surgeon at Naven
by, which is about 17 miles distant from me, who had the
misfortune to be thrown from a horse, on June 7th, 1813,
who then pitched on his head, which bled inwardly; the
consequence of which, was this, that he was most grievously
afflicted by strong and violent fits, which commenced with
one fit in two or three days, and then afterwards increased
to one, and often two in a day, when he required three stout
men to hold him for about two hours at each time; this
most grievous and most dreadful intelligence was brought to
me by the following letter written by my Son, which is also
kept herein our office for your inspection.
“ Navenby, Wednesday, June 16th, 1813.
* Honoured Father and Mother,
“Feeling myself a little better this morning, I took this
opportunity of writing to you about my late misfortune;
the particulars are as follows: On Monday, the 7th of this
"month, my master told me he had a dining-day that day;
“nd I must keep about home to take the horses, when I took
BOOK OF MIRACLES, - 61
three down one after the other, and coming up for the third,
I saw there was another ready for me, when I went up and
took the horse, which I mounted immediately; having rode
down the street a little way, I felt very low in my spirits,
and also very dizzy, that Ifell from the horse; after which,
I got up again, and felt myself something better, and after
ſhaving mounted again, the horse took fright, and gallop'd
away as fast as his legs could carry him; I having nothing
but a snaffle bridle on, I could not step him, the fasterI
tried to hold him, the faster he went. I rode very well
while I came to Wellingore mill, where the horse threw
one off, but whereabouts I cannot tell, I pitch'd upon my
head, having no hat on, which made me quite insensible;
it is supposed that I fell in a fit; some man came up and
stopped the horse, and took me up, and gave me the horse,
when I led him back; but what I was doing or where I
wasgoing, I could not tell; a neighbour came to meet me, but I
did not know him; he asked me some questions, but I
answered him in a state of insensibility; he took me to my
ºnaster's, who told him to take me to my uncle's house, and
he would come to me there himself; he accordingly came,
and took three parts of a bason of blood away from me. This
happened about two o'clock in the afternoon; and I was
not sensible any more while five o'clock the same afternoon;
there is not any wound on my head now to signify, it would
ſhave been better if there was. Ihave had six fits since.
“I remain, your dutiful Son,
** J. PARKINS.”
*
Some people may call this an accident, &c. but I say,
thatthere is no suchthing asmere chanceinexistence, for there
is nothing happens here in this world without the preordina
tion and divine will of Providence,” as a sparrow cannot
fall to the ground without divine permission, and also, that
the hairs ofour headare allnumbered. (a) But if we only read,
and just take a single view ofthe heavens at that most fatal
period, we shall find that his principal significator of life in
his nativity, was located in the house of death, making at the
same time, a most fatal opposition with the malific planet
(a) Matt. x. 29, 30.
52 BOOK OF MIRACLES.
Mars, from fired signs, in conjunction with cauda draconis,
so that his danger was so exceeding great, his case so diffi
cult, bidding defiance to all the powers of medicines, and
the hopes so small, so that to cure him, and restore him to
health of body, must be a miracle indeed; however, I got
him home as soon as I could, and whenever his fits came,
we all expected that the same would end in death; this was
the general opinion of every person who saw him in that
most dreadful state and condition. I gave him but very little
medicine, well knowing, that the best medicines in the
world would have been but ef very little service unto him
in this case, so that we all looked upon him as a dead man,
without the least hopes of recovery whatsoever, and seeing
that his affliction lay so much in his head, he was not able to
use any of our Holy Consecrated Lamens himself, that was
impossible, so that we were all at a loss what to do, or what
course to take in this great extremity, for I really dreaded
the return of every day, which always brought such new
and most dreadful and tremendous horrors to my view,
which made me completely miserable indeed, having only
one son; when both myself, and all the people about me,
most fully expected to see him a corpse every day, his
agoniesweresoexceedinggreat, and being thus daily depriyed
of his reason, that I fully expected that some of us would
be either hurt or lamed by him, seeing that at those dreadful
periods, he was quite mad and insane for nearly one hour
after each fit, and would then knock any person down he
could reach, and would also, have torn his own flesh from
his hands and fingers, if he had not been held down by the
superior strength and force of our assistants; but in the
midst of all these heavy afflictions, which are much easier
conceived than expressed, ‘I considered that I would make
one of our Holy Consecrated Lamens, and use the same
myself, and on his behalf; this I did without any further
delay, well knowing, that “when all human refuges doth
..forsake us, then will the help of God shine forth ;” and this
cured him, and restored him to his former good state of
health in less than three months, when we least expected it,
for which we are truly thankful; and this communication,
I now give unto the world, for the benefit of all those who
may be now labouring under afflictions of any kind what
soever; thus showing them how to obtain help in the time
of need, and if you will now, after this notice, still continue
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 63
3.9%
ſº
yourselves up asvictims to pride,ignorance and folly, (as it is
fully explained in my Celestial Physician,) remember, I
have done my duty, it is not my fault. I suppose this to be as
great a miracle as ever I performed, at any time whatsoever,
for him whom we dared not trust to walk two hundred yards.
without a guard, can now go any where safe by himself, as
he has travelled some thousands of miles by himself, since
that unhappy period hereinbefore mentioned.
We also read, and are informed by the Holy Scriptures,
that there are diseases caused by the possession of evil, or
unclean spirits, (a) from whence cometh also, diseases by
witchcraft, which have often terminated in death 2 (b).Now
it is the grand policy of the devil, to make as many believe
as he can, that there is no such thing now at this time in
existence, in order that he may, by this means, thus afflict
and kill them, as it were without their knowledge, and by
their own consent, and a many are foolish and ignorant
enough to believe it; but common experience and continual
practice, hath now most fully convinced us to the contrary.
Why should not there be the same evils, afflictions, and
diseases now, as there formerly were: Is there not the same
devil, and the same powers of darkness now, as there always
was in times past? I believe that it will continue in this
state, even to the end of the world; let heathens say, and do
what they please; for do not they say every day in the
Church of England: “As it was in the beginning is now,
and ever shall be, world without end. Annen 2'' -
I have had a great number of cases of witchcraft in my
hands since I have been in business, and we have an Holy
Consecrated Lamen to cure the same; (see the ninth Lamen,
&c. in my Cabinet of Wealth, page 8) and sometimes these
devils in human shape, have even come to my house both by
day and night, in order to fight me, power against power, art
against art, and life against life, but I always obtained the
victory; because the army of heaven, who doth all my
work, was always stronger than the powers of darkness, so
that I now think no more of taking a case of witchcraft, or
possession of evil spirits into my hands, than I do of any
common disease whatsoever. Now, in the West Indies,
they are called the Obee, which isjust the same thing under
another name. I lately cured a West India Captain, who
(a) Matt. xii. 43, 45. Luke ix.42. xi. 24, 26. Mark i. 23,
26, v.2, 8, vii. 25. (b) I Sam. xv. 23. II Chron. xxxiii. 6.
t;4 BOOK OF MIRACLES.
was so much afflicted by them, that all the medicine he
took before that period, was not of the least use to him,
neither in town nor country, which cost him a many pounds
in vain, and he was also so sensible of this affliction, and the
true cause of the same, that he was glad to give me five
guineas for that alone; for by my art and power, I can
reach into the IWest Indies; and also, all over the world,
with as much ease as I can reach the other end of the room
in which I now sit; but if I was to attempt to give you a
full account of all the different cases of this nature, which
have passed through my hands at different periods, I suppose
it would make a large volume of itself; for on the 6th day
of January, 1816; a poor woman, whose name is Mary
Rowston, of the Parish of Ludborough, near Louth, Lincoln
shire, being most grievously afflicted by witchcraft for some
time, and having also spent all her money in searching for
remedies to no purpose, she applied to the parish officers
and overseers of the poor, who sent unto ine, and paid me
one guinea, to cure her at near fifty miles distance, without
everseeing this woman; and I restored her to her former good
state, and safely delivered her from the power of the devil,
and the malice of witches or wizards, on the first applica
tion; as all the principal inhabitants of that parish can fully
prove and testify : “ Don't you also call this a miracle?”
Sometimes whole families will be thus afflicted, their cattle,
and all that they have (when not timely prevented), have
fallen victims to these minions of darkness, which have
brought them to their ruin and death; while you now
know where to obtain a never failing remedy for the same,
if you apply to me for that purpose, before it is too late.
The first case of witchcraft that ever came to my hands,
was as hard and as difficult as any I ever met with, at any
time whatsoever, and then I had all my business of that
nature to learn, and none to teach me, except the angelic
ministers of heaven, who regularly taught me all my business
throughout every department of the same. A great deal of
time and trouble attended this desperate case at that period,
which I could have done so easy in a very little time, if I
had the same case in my hands now at this time. This
man was afarmer, (who lived at the distance of thirty miles
from me at that time) his whole family was most grievously
*ſūicted, his cattle was dying, his house was much molested
by nocturnal disturbances, his sister was very ill, he could
B60K OF MIRACLES. 65
expected nothing but immediate and complete ruin and
destruction, which caused this unfortunate man to £ry
beforeme like a child; I thought all these things very strangº
at that time, but now they are become so familiar with
me, that I think nothing of them; he first came into all
this trouble, by only givingsome old women some vegetables
Qut ofhis garden, and he could not spare them any more.
Now, observe, that it was not the old women that could ever
hurt or injure him or his family, it was that infernal power,
which they had obtained from the devil and the powers of
<larkness, which he expected would have ruined him, and
destroy all that he had; but in order to give you a proper
specimen of this case, I shall now call your attention to the
true copy of the following post letter, which is also kept
here in our office, for the inspection of any lady or gentle
man who may desire to see the same:
“ March 13, 1798.
* Sir,
* Ireceivedyour letter, and Iam sorry youshould think that
we have not done according to your directions, for I am cer
tain we have done as near as we possibly c uld in every thing
as you ordered; and, according to your last orders, the first
thing we did was the cream, and after my sister was gone to
bed, the house was much disturbed, for my sister could hear
her chair to rock about as if somebody had been in it in great
gony, and there was a great disturbance in my sister's
§.at the same time, and the witch was upon my sister's
bed, and afflicted her much. The next night my sister tried
the same experiment by her own urine, and as soon as the
dish was consumed, there appeared in the cloth three things
like unto three images, and tuo of them stood very near each
other, and the other stood at the back of the other two, which
was much the largest; and one of the two fell very quick.
And they have tried the same by a brother's urine, when there
appeared the shape of a coffin as soon as the dish was burnt,
and there was also a very mournful cry heardin the hubs, like
to the cry of two rats, and as for the cream it was very good,
and theygot the butter twice, the first time with ease; the next
time with a great degl oftrouble, for the cream soon became
56 Book of MIRACLEs.
another dismal cry was heard in the hub as above mentioned,
and she is very deep upon the cous at this time. Thanks be
to God, I have now the pleasure of informing you that all
your patients are better; Sir, I hope you have it in your
power to do something more for us, as we are in but a very
middling situation at this time, for we are very much trou
bled at both houses, and we are in fear there is nothing the
wnatter with the witches at present; Sir, I wish you would
be so kind as to give us your opinion of these scenes and cries
aboue mentioned. So no more at present -
“From your humble Servant.”
Observe, here was two houses disturbed, and two families
afflicted, with their cattle, by these minions of darkness in
the same parish; and as hard and as difficult as I found this
most desperate case in those days, I should now think the
same case but very small and trifling, were it to be brought
to my hands now at this time. I have had so much expe
rience therein since that period, that I do not know who
'could believe half of these most wonderful and most as
tonishing relations I could now give unto you on that most
alarming subject, without the same was duly supported by
the testimony and evidence of post letters, which no man can
ever contradict or confute at any time whatsoever.
But in respect to all the various miracles I ever performed,
and also of all my works and operations, which were also
done by me at any time or in any place whatsoever, I wish to
give all the great praise, honour, and glory of the same, unto
HIM alone who hath given unto me certain knowledge of
the things that are, viz. To know how the world was made;
to defend kingdoms, states, and private persons; to dis
cover the secret counsels of men; to overcome enemies;
to redeem captives; to increase riches, prevent poverty,’
distress, and all unhappy marriages; to apprehend all
thieves, robbers, and swindlers of every description; to
punish, the guilty, and protect and defend the innocent
of both sexes; to procure the favour of men; to expel
diseases; to preserve health; to prolong life; to renew
Yºuth; to foretel future events; to see and know things
that a-- a-- - -
BOOK OF MIRACLES. 67
* *
the elements, the beginning, ending, and midst of the times;
> *
iſ 2
the alterations and turning of the sun; the revolution of
the planets; the nature, office, order, virtue, power, and
dignity of angels and just spirits made perfect, archangels,
cherubims, seraphims, thrones, and dominions, principalities,
and powers; the change of seasons; the circuit of years;
the position of stars; the structure and formation of the
human body, both male and female ; the principals of life
and death; the nature of living creatures, the fury of wild
beasts; the violence of winds; the nature and progress of
the most glorious army of heaven; the nature and violence
of that which is calledfireballs, which is produced by thun
der and lightning, which, by some is called the artillery of
heaven; the reasonings of men; the diversity of plants
and the virtue of roots, and all such things that are either
past, present, or to come, whether secret or manifest.
Them Iknow, which are not only mentioned in my Cabinet
of Wealth, Key to the Wiseman's Crown, Celestial Phy
sician, the Oracle of Heaven, my Complete Herbal and
Family Physician, my Young Man's best Companion, and
my Universal FortuneTeller; but also in all gly other books
in M. S. and advertisements, which are daily sold here
at various prices, together with eleven hundred different
articles, secrets, mysteries, and curiosities of our Temple of
Wisdom: The whole being founded on the Holy Scrip- -
tures, religion, reason, philosophy, divinity, mathematics,
much experience, daily study, and constant practice; de
duced from the various positions of the heavens, and the
most wonderful practice of the ancient and modern English,
Spanish, French, Italian, German, Persian, Arabian, Chal
dean, Latin, Greek, Hebrew, and Egyptian doctors, pro
phets, seers, wisemen, astronomers, astrologians, phy
sicians, poets, divines, primitive Christians, and philoso
phers, throughout all the various ages of the world.
Therefore, comeand hasten untome without delay toreceive
all these great benefits, and lose no more time, for all your
various orders will be executed here on the shortest notice,
when the same is duly paid for, and will also be regularly
sent into any part ofEngland, Ireland, Scotland, or Wales,
at any time whatsoever. Dr. Parkins will also wait on you
at your own houses, in any part of England, &c.if you have
no objection to first send and remit unto him such additional
travelling expences, &c. as will be necessarily required
-*** In ºvº. Kyr IvºirüACLES.
vidual, or by any party subscription, at any time whatsoever.
See my Cabinet of Wealth, page 11, and also my Key to the
Wiseman's Crown, page 63. “He that walketh with wise
men shall be wise, but a companion of fools shall be
destroyed." Prov. viii. 18, 19, 20, 21, xiii. 29.
- - -
- - *--
<--*s.
2O. º ºl
- -
--tº
vº
3-º-º:
-
ºn E END,
*
9
Any lady or gentleman may also be favoured, with
curious and interesting Work, which is prepared and c.
stantly sold here at our Office, in M.S.
Price from Twenty to Thirty Guineas each Copy, entitled
THE
GRAND ORACLE OF HEAVEN,
/ - OR, w
The Art of Divine Magic;
- - FROM t
THE U R IM, T H U M M I Mi, AND
SANCTUM SANCTORUM,
As it is regularly taught and constantly practised in
©ur Cemple of ºignom,
IUNTo which is Addenºf {
and Treasury of Divine Wisdom
and Magic.
The Gr
Containing the most wonderful mysteries and secrets of
the celestial regions, leading the way to know all thing past,
present, and to come; resolving all manner of questions b
the angelic ministers of heaven, foretelling and predicting all
future events and contingencies whatsoever; both by the use
of a common slate and pencil, and also by a consecrated
chrystal, shewing how their closets may be thus converted
into a kind of PARADISE, or HEAVEN BELow ; together
with all the various theological and magical ceremonies, se
crets, and mysteries, with Enoch's DevoTIONs, thereunto
belonging ; the whole containing the highest branches of
learning ever known or practised since the creation of the
world; shewing how to obtain health, prosperity, pleasure,
º; and ſºlicily, both in this world and join a \
* is to come; and also how to obtain a union any tom
*ion with the angelic ministers of heaven at any time,
The whole made plain and easy for the meanest capacity,
-
By DR. PARKINS,
“Prepare .#. thy God, seek good and not evil, that ye ma;
live, and so the the God of hosts shall be with you.” AM0s, iv.
2-v. 14-----
“For the angeſs minister "ntº them alone who shall be heirs of
salvation. Hen.i. 13, 14, whº ºily keep their charge over them,
- and also “Encamp round about them that fear Him, and delivereth
them.” Psalvºxei. 11. xxxiv. 7. Marr. xviii. 10. Luke xv. 10.
Matt. xviii. 20, 21. Mankix. 29. Luke x. 20.
N.B. Sir Weeks must always be allowed for the execu.
tion of this said order, from the time that the same is first
*eived at our office aforesaid, -
*** ** – kº-
- -. CºA. Nyy - it
1 C.orwºow, I. *||
-
-
-
- -
- º
- * J. Bailey, Printer, 116, Chancery Lane. º
