{"name":"Lecture On The Origin Of Free Masonry","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1818__paine___lecture_on_the_origin_of_free_masonry.pdf","mytitle":"Lecture On The Origin Of Free Masonry","mylang":"de"}
AN
ESSAY
ON
THE QRIGIN
OP
FREE MASONRY.
BY THOMAS PAINE.
LONDON:
PlU11TilD & PUJILISHED BY R,CA.RLILB, 1&3,FLEiJTSTKii1ETo
1818.
o Qiti7ed by Google
Digitized by Coogle
AN ESSAY
ON THE
0RIGIN OF FREE MASONRY.
lr is always understood that Free Masons have a secret
which they carefully conceal ; but from every_thing that
cau be collected from their-own accounts of Masons; their
1
real secret is no other than their origin, which but few of
them understand; and those who do, envelope it in mystery.
The Society of Masons are distinguished into three classes
or degrees. 1st. The Entered Apprentice. 2nd. ,The
Fellow-Craft. 3rd. The Master Mason.
The c?ltered apprentice knows but little more of Masonry,
than the use·of signs and tokens, and certain steps and words,.
Ly which l\lasons can renognize each other, without being
discoyercd by a person wl10 is nota Mason. · The fellow-craft
is not much better iniih;ucted in masonry, than the entered
apprentice. It is only in the Master Mason'& Jodie, that
. whatever k111owledge remains of the ori,in of masonry is pre..
served and concealed.
In 1730, Samuel Pritchard, member of a constituted
lodge iu England, published a treatise entitled Masonry
Dimcted; and made oath before the Lord Mayor of Lon-
dou, that it was a true copy.
" Samu~l Pritchard rnaketh oath that tlie oopy hereunto
annexed, is a true and genuine copy in every particular."
In his work he has gi'Ven the catechism, or examina-
tion, in question and answer, of the apprentices, the tellow
craft and the Master Mason. Th.erc was uo difficulty iu
doing this, as· it iil mere form.
In his introduction he s:lys, "the original 'institution of
maaoury consisted iu the foundation of the li'beral arts and
s.cicnct:s, but more especially on Geometry, for at the build·
. iug of tlte To;ver of Babtl the art and mystery of Masonry
Digitized byGoogle
-4 ON THE ORI'"IN' OF FREE MASONRY.
was first introdu~ed, and from thence itandep down by Eu·
did, a worthy and excellent Mathematician of the Egyptians;
and he communicated it to I-lirt~m, the Master Mason con-e
cerned in building Soloniloo's Temple.in Jerusalem."
Besides the absurdity·of deriving masonry from the build·
ing of Babel, where, according to the 11tory, the confusion
of languages prevented builders understanding each other,
and consequently of communicating any knowledge they had,
there is a glaring contradiction in point of chronology in
the account he givea. .
Solon1on's Temple was built and dedicated 1004 ye:.trs
before the christian era; and Euclid, as may be seen in the
tables of chronology, lived 277 years before the same era.
It was therefore impossible that Euclid could communicate
any thing to Hiram, since Euclid did not live till 700 year~
after the time of Hiram.
In 17i3 captain George Smith, inspector of the Royal
Artillery Academy at \Voolwich, in England, and Provin·
cial Grand-master of Masonry for the county of Kent,
published a treati11.e entitled Tbe Use and Abuse of Free·
Masonry.
In his chapter of the antiquity of masonry, be mal<es it te>
be coeva I witu creation. " When, says lse, the sovereign
architect raised on masonic principles, tbe beauteous globe,
and commanded that m~ster science, Geometry, to lay the
planelafy woJ:ld, and to regulate by its laws the whole &tu-
pendous system in just unerrini proportion, rolling round
the central sun." ·
" Bvt;' continues he, "I am not at liberty publicly to un-
draw the curtain, and thereby to descant on this head, it is
sacred, and ever will remain so; those who are honoured
with the trust will not reveal it, .and those who are igno-
r~nt of it c~nnot betray it.'' By this last part of the phrase,
:Smith 111eans the two inferior classes, tl.le fellow-craft and
the entered apprentice, for be says, in the next page of hi&
work. " It is not every o»e that is barely initiated into-Free-
1\fuonry tbat ia entru11ted with all the mysteries thereto be·
longing; they are not attainable as things of_course, .nor by
eyery capacity."
. The learned, b\lt uofortunate Doctor Dodd, Grang Chap..
Jain of Masonry, in his oration at the dedication of Free-
Mason's Hall, Landon, traces Masonry through a variety of
stages. Masons, Aays h~. are well informed from their own
private and interior records that the. building of Solomon•s
Temple is an important era, fl'O}ll whence they derive many
Digitized by Coogle
OS' THE ORIGIN OF FnEE !4 .\SO~llY. !)
n1ysteries of their art. " Now, says be, be it remembered
that this great event took place above 1000 years before the
Christian era, anrl consequently more than a century ~efore
Homer, the first of the Grecian Poets, wrote; and above five
centuries before Pythagoras brought from the east hi~; sub-
lime system of truly masonic instruction to illuminate our
western world.
" But remote as this period is, -we date not from thence
the commencement of our art. For though it might ow~ to
the wise and glorious King of Israel, some of its many mys-
tic-forms and hieroglyphic ceremonies, yet certainly the art
itself is coeval with man, the great subject of it.
'' We truce," continues he, " its footsteps in the most
distant, the most remote ages and nations- of the world.
'Ve find it amongst tbe first and most celebrated civilizers
of the East. \Ve deduce it regularly from the fir~t astro-
nomers on the plains of Chaldea, to the wise and mystic
kings and priest@ of Egypt, the sages of Greeee, and the
philosophers of Rome."
From these reports and declarations· of Masons of the
highest order in the institution, we see that m:tsonry.
\Vithout publicly declaring so, lays claim to some diTine
communication from the Creator in amanner rt ifl'erent from.
and unconnected with, the book which the Christians call
the Bible; and the natural-result from tl.is is, that ruasonry
is derived fa·om some very ancient religion wholly indepen.
dent of, and unconnected with that book.
To come then at once to the point, n1asonry (as I shall
she\Y from the custom, ceremonies, hieroglyphics, and
chronology of masonry) is derived, and is the remains of
the religion of the ancient Druids; who like the magi of
Persia and the priests of Heliopolis in Egypt, were priests
of the Sun. They ~id worship to this great luminary, as
the great visible agent of a great invisible first cause, whom
they styled, Time without limits.
The Christian religion and masonry have one and the
aame common origin, both are derived from the worship of
the sun, the difterence between tbeir origins is, that the
Christian religion is a parody on the wor5hip of the sun, in
which they put a man whom they call Christ, in the place
of the sun, and pay him the same adoration which was ori..
ginally paid to the sun, as I have shewn in the chapter on
the origin of the Christian religion.•
• Referrin~ to the Third Part of Paine'5 Age of Heason m1t
published. See ex.tract from Mr. Paine'» Will in the preface to t~~
vc»ume,
Digitized by Coogle
ON Tli& O.IUGIN OF FREE MASONRY.
In masonry many of the ceremonies of the Druids nre
preserved in their original state, at least without' any parody.
With them the sun is still the sun; and his ..image in the
form of the sun, ia tbe great ernblematical ornament of
Masonic Lodges and Masonic dresses. It is the central
figure on their aprons, and they wear it also pendant on the
breast in their lodges, and in their procession~. It has the
figure of a man, as at the head of the sun, as Christ is al-
wnys represented.
At what period of antiquity, or in what nation, this reli-
gion was first established, is lost in the labyrinth of unre-
corued times. It is generally ascribed to the uncient Egyp·
tians, the Babylonians :IHd Chaldeans, and reduced after-
wards to a system re~ulated by the apparent progress of the
~un through the twelve signs of the zodiac by Zoro11ster
the lawgiver of Persia, from whence Pythagoras· brought it
into Greece. It is to these matters Dr. Dodd refers in the
passage already quoted from his omtion.
The wor&hip of the sun as the gn~at visiblaagent of a great
in~isible first cause, time without limits, 11pread itself over a
<:onsiderable part of Asia 11nd Africa, from thence to Greece
nnd Rome, through all ancient Gaul, and into Britain and
Ireland.
Smith, in his chapter on the antiquity of masonry
in Britain, says, that " notwithstaR<ling the obscurity
which envelopes masonic history in that country, various
circumitances contributo to prove that Free Masonry
was introduced into ~ritain about 1030 years before
Christ."
. It cannot be mnsonry in its present state that Smith here
alludes to. The Druids flourished iu Britain at the perio1l
l1e speaks of, and it is from them that masonry is descended.
amith bas put the child in the place of the parent.
It sometimes happeus as .well in writing as in conver~a­
tion, tl1at a person lets slip an expression that serves to
unravel what he intends tv conceal, and this is the case with
Smith, for in the same chapter he says, " The Druicls, when
they committed any thing to writing, used the Greek alpha-
bet, and I am bold to assert that the most perfect remains of
the Druids' rites and cerimonies are preser,ed in the cus-
toms and ceremonies of tire masons that are to be touod
existing among mankind. " My brethren," says he," may
be able to trace thec1 with greater exactness than I am at
liberty to explain tot~ public."
Tbis is a confession from a Master Mason, wit,hout in-
tending it w b\e so uuderstood by the public~ ~hat masonry
. ' .
Digitized by GoogIe
OM THE ORIGIN OF FREE MASONR1r, 7
i~ the remains of· the religion of the Druids, the reason for
the ·Masons keeping this .a secret I shall explain in the course
of this work.
As the Rtudy :md contemplation of the Creator in the
works of the creation of which the sun as the great visible
ag-ent. of that Being:, WriS the visible ol~jcct or the aclora-
ti.on of Druids, all their religious rites ·and ceremonies had
referen.ce to the apparent p-rogress of the sun through the
twelve Rigns of the Zodiac, and his influence upon the
earth. The Masons ado-pt the same practices. The roof of
their temples or lodges is ornamented with a sun, and the
floor is a represt>ntation of the variegated face of the earth,
either by carpctin~ or Mosaic work.
free Mason's Hall, in Great Queen-street, Lincoln's lou
Fields, London, is a magnificent builJing-, and cost 11pwards
of 12,000 pounds sterling. Smith in !>peaking or this building
says (page 1.'>2) "The roof of this magniiicent hall i!l, in all
probabability the highest piece of finished architecture in
Europe. In the centre of this roof, a 1.11ost resplendent sun
is represented in burnished gold, surrounded with the lZ
sig-us of the Zodiac ~vith their respective characters:
Aries
Taurus
Gemini
Cancer
Leo
Virgo
Libra
Scorpio
s~gi ttarius
Cnpricornus
Aquarius
Pisces
After giving th!!'. cle~cription he sap, " The emblemati·
cal mennin~ or i!w sun is well known to the enlightenrtl
nod inqui!'.itive Free l\Iason; an~l ns the real sun is situated
ln the centre of the universe, so the emblematical sun ts
the centre of real masonry. We all kn0\\1, continues he•
that the sun is the fountain of light, the source of the sea-
sons, the canse of the vicissitudes of day aJui night, the
parent of vegetation, the friend of man; hence the scientific
Free-Mason only knows the reason why the &un is placet\
in the centre of this beautiful hall."
The l\l:J~ons, in ordcr to protect themseh·ps from the pPr·
secution of the Christian church, have alway" spoken in a
mystical manner of the fi~:ure of the sun in their lodges, o:·,
)ike the astronomer of Lalancie, ,,,.ho is a :Mac,on, bePn 11iknt
UJ>_?n the suhjrct. It is their secret, t>!'pecially in Cat hoi ic
Digitized by Coogle
J' ON THE ORlSlN OF FRE~ MAIIOlnt.Y.
countries, because the figure of ·the sun is the expressive
<.-riterion that denott>s they are descended from the Druids,
and was ti1at wise, elegant, philo11ophical religion, the faith
opposite to the faith of the gloomy Chriatian church.
The lodges of the Mason!!, if built for the purpose, are
constructsd in a manner to correspond with the apparent
motion of the sun. They are situated East and Wut.
The master's place is alw:tys in the East. In the exall!ina-
tion of an entered apprentice, the master, among many other
questions al!ks him,
Q. How is the lodge situated?
A. East and West. '
Q. Why so?
A. Because all churches and chapels are or ought to
be so.
This answer, which is mere catechismal form, is uot an an-
Inver to·the question. It dot>s no more than remove the ques-
tion a point further, which is, why ou,ht all churches and
chapels to be so? But as the entered llpprentice is not ini-
tiated into the Druidical mysteries of Masonry, he is not asked
any questions to which a direct answer would lead thereto.
Q, Where stands your master?
A. In the East. ·
Q. Why so.
A. As the sun rises in the East, and opens the day,
10 the master stands in the East (with. his right hand
upon his left 'breast, being a sign, and the square about Ilia
neck) to open the lodge and set his men at work.
Q. Where stand your wardens?
A. In the \Veat.
Q, What is their busineas?
A. As the sun r.:ets in the \Vest to close the day, so the
wardens stand in the \Vest with their right hands upon their
left breasts, being a sign, and the level and plumb rule about
their uecks to close the lodge, and dismiss the men from
]abour,"{>nying them their wages,
Here the name of the sun is mentioned, but it is proper
to obl'ervc, that in this place it has reference only to labour
or to the titlle of labour, and not to any religious Druidical
Tite or ceremony, as it would l}ave with respect to the situa-
tion of Lodges East and \Ve~t. I have already observed in
the chapter'on the origin of the Clnistian religion, that the
aituation of churches East aud \Vest is taken from tlie wor-
ship of the sun whicll rises iB the East. The Cbristiun~
Digitized by Google
ON THE ORIGIN Ol' FREE MASOJill'Y. 9
never bury their dead on the North side of a church; and. a
Mason's Lodge dways has, E>r is supposed ~to have, three
windows, whicp are called fixed lights, to distinguish them
from the moveable li~hts of the sun and the moon. The
master asks the enter~d apprentice,
Q. How are they (the fixed lights} situated?
A., East, west. and south.
Q, What are their usei?
A. To light the men to and from their work.
Q. Why a•there no lights in the North?
A. Because the sun darts no rays from thence.
This among numerous other instances shews that the
christian religion, and 1\fasonry, have one and the same
common oriiin, the ancient worship of the sun.
The hlgh festival of the Masons i~ on the day they r.a.ll
St. Johr~ s day; llu.t every enlightened Mason must lcuow
that holding their festival on this day ha• no reference to
the person 'Called St. John; and that it is only to disguise
the true cause of holding it on this day, that they call the
day by that name. As there were Masons, or at least
Druids, many centtiries before the time of St. John, if' suclt
person ever existed, the holding their festival on thia day
must refer to some cause totally u•connectcd with John.
The case is, that the day dalleJ St. John's day is the ~tb
June, and is what is call,•d :Midsummer day. The sun is
then arrived at the summer Rolslice; apd with respect to
his meridional altitude, or height at high noon, appears for
some days to be of the same hei&ht. The Astronomical
longest day; like the shortest day, ia not ever.y year, on ac-
ccount of leap year, on the same numerical day, aud there-
fore the 2.tth of June, is always tal1.en fo1· Midsum'mer day;
and it is iu honour of the sun, which has then arrived at
his greatest height in our hemisphere, and not any thing
wj.t-lt---respect to St. John, that this annual festival of the
Masous, taken from the Druids, is celebrated on Midsummer
day.
Customs will often outlive th.e remembrance of tlteir
origin, anil this is. the case with respect to a custom still
practiseef ·in Ireland, wliere the Druids flourished at the
time they flourished in Britain. On the eve of St. John's
day, that is on the eve of Midsummer day the, Irish light
fires on the tops of the hills. This cau have no reference to
St. John; but it has eroblematical referwce to the sun which
•n that day is at his highest summer elevation, and migho;
Digitized by Coogle
10 ON THS ORIGIN OF FJtEt l'tUStNRY.
in common language be said to have arriveu at the top of the
hill.
As to what Masons, and books of Masonry tell us of
Solomon's Temple at Jerusalem, it is no wise improbable
that some masonic cf.t·enwnies may have been derived from
the building of that Temple, for the worship of the sun was
in practice many centuries before .the temple existed, or
before the Israelites came out of Egypt. And we learn from
the history of the Jewish Kings, 2 Kings, chap. xxii. xxiii.
that the worship of the sun was performed by the Jews in
that temple. It is, however, much to be doubted, if it
wa'3 done with the same scientific purity and religious
morality, with which it was performed by the Druids,
who by all accounts that historically remain of them, were
a wise, learned and moi·al class 61' men. The Jews, on the
contrary, were ignorant of astronomy; and o"r science i.n
general, and if a religion founded upon astronomy, fell into
their hands, it i10 almost certain it would be corrupted. We
do not read in the history of the Jews, whether in the
Bible or elsewhere, that they were the iuveutors or the im-
pr~vers of any one art or ~;cience. Even iu the .building of
this temple, the Jews did not know how to square and
frame the timuer for beginning and carrying on tbe work,
and Solomon was obli~ed to send to Hiram, King of J'yre,
(Zidon) to procure- workmen; " for thou kuowest, (says·
~olomon to Hiram, l Kings, chap. v. ver. 6.) that there is
not among us any that can skill to hew timber like unto the
Zidonians." This tc!mple was more properly Hiram's
temple than Solomon's, and if the Masons derive auy thing
from the building of it, they owe it to the Zidouians and
not to the Jews.-But to return to the worship of the sun in
this temple.
It is said, 2 Kings. chap. xxiii. ver. 8. " A ml King Josiah
put down all the Idolatrous priests that burned incense
unto the sun, the moon, the planets and to all the host of
heaven."-And it is said at the 11 ver. "and he took away
the horses that the kings of Juda.h had given to the sun, at
th~ entering in of the house of .the- Lord, and bur.kled the
ch;triots of the suu with fire, ver. 13. and the high places
that were before Jerusalem, which were on the right hand
· of the mount of corruption, which Solomon the King of
Israel had builtled for Astoreth. tke abomination of the
'l.irlonians (tl1e very people that built the temple) did the'·
·kiu:; Jciilc.
Digitized by Coogle
ON THE-ORIGIN OF FRt~•l\IASONRY. lt
Besides these things, ti1e description that Josephu1
gives of the decorations of this.Temple, resembles on a larg-e
scale tho•e of n. i\Ltsc·: ·~· Lc•:\:,·. IL: ~ ·"'' tl1::t tlledist;iLttt iun
of 11H~ ~c~ ve ral P'l t·t~ of ihr.! ~l', ,·op:e (; i~ ti~e ...~( : \.fs re prc~c ut(>: t
all nature, particu!lt:ly t!:e p:trts wo.sc ~~~)l' :t>'·nt of it, as th·::
fiun·, the moon, the p:ands, 'the zodiac, tbe c:tnil, tlJe
elements, anrl that the system of the world was ret.raced
there by numerous ingenious emblems. These1 in all pro-
bability, are what Josiah, in his ignorance, ralls the abomi..
nations of the Zidonians.• Every thing, however, drawn.
from this temple,t and applied to :Masonry, still refers to the
worship of the sun, however conupted or misunderstood by
the Jews, and, consequently, fo the religion of the Druids.
Another circumstance which shewl'l that Masonry is rleri-
ved from some ancient system, prior to, and unconnected
''l'ith, the christian religion, is the chronology, or method of
<:ounting time, used by the Masons in the records of their
lodges. They make no use of what is called the christiart
era; and they reckon their months numerically, as the
ancient Egyptians did, and u the quakers do now. I have
by me, a record of a French Lodge, at the time the late
Duke of Orleans, then Duke de Chartres, was Grand
Master of Masonry in France. It bt gins as follows: " Le
trwtieme jour due si:ri~me ruois de L'an de Ia V. L: cinq. mit
sepcmt soixante trize," that is, the tl1irtieth day of the sixtl1
month of the year of the venerable Lodge, five thousallll
seven huudred and seventy three. By what I observe itl
"' Smith in speaking of a l.odge say5, when the Lodge is reveal-ed
to an entering lHas<~u, it discol'ers to him a representation of the
u·or/d : in wllich from the wontlers of nature, we are led to con-
• template her great original, and wor~hi p him from his mighty
·works; and we are thereov al'o moved to exercise those moral and
5oc.ial virtues which becon~e nHtukiud as the ~en•ants of the ~re<tt
architect of the world. · ··
t It rna): not be improper here to ohsel'l'c, that the law called
the luw of Moses could not have been in existence at the time of
building thii tem?l~. Here is the likeness of thiugs in heaven.
above, and in the earth hc!leath. Aud we read in 1 Kings, chap.
(i, 7, thut Solomon ruauc cheruhs anti cherubims, that he c::m·ed
all the walls or the house·round about·with rhcrubims aud palm-.
tree~, aud open flowers, aud t!Jat he made a molten sea., placed on
1weh·e oxen, and the ledges ofit were onuunentl?d with lions, oxen,
aud cheruuims; all tl.is i~ contrurv to the law called the' law of
.!\'loGes, • .
Digi11zed by Google
12 ON THE O!liGIX OF FREE•MASONRY.
~nglish bool<s of Masonry, the English Masons use the
initials A. L. and not V. L. By A. L. they mean in the
year of the Lodge, a~ the christians by A. D. mean in the
year of the Lord. But A. L. like V. L. referw to the same
t hronoligical era, that is, to the supposed time of the
Creation. In the chapter on the origin of the christian
religion, I have shewn that the cosmogany, that is the
account of the creation, with which the book of Genesis
opens, has been taken and mutilated from the Zend-Avist~
of Zoroaster, and · is fixed as a preface to the Bible, after
the Jews, returned fllom captivity in Babylon, and that the
rabbins of the Jews do not hold their account in Genesis
to be a fact, but mere allegory. The six thousand years
in the Zend-Avista, is changed or interpolated into six
days io the account of Genesis. The masons appear to have
chosen the same period, and perhaps to avoid the su~picion
and persecution of the church, have adapted the era ef
the world, as the era of the masonry. The V. L. of the
French, and A. L. of the English Mason, answer to the
A. l\1.• Anno Mundi, or year of the world.
Though the Masons have taken many of their ceremonies
~ml hieroglyphics from the ancient Egyptians, it is certain
they have not taken their chronology from thence. If they
/ l1ad, the church would soon have sent them to the stal<e;
as the chronology of the Egyptian~, like that of the Chinese,
goes l)lany thousand years beyond the bible chronology.
The religion of the Druids, a~ before said, was the same
ns the religion of the ancient Egyptians. The priests of
.Egypt were the professor~ and teachers of Science, and
w~re styled priests of Heliopolis, that is, of the city ~ tht
,un. The Druids in Europe, who were the same order of
men, have their name from the Teutonic or ancient German
language; the German11 being anciently called Teutone!>.
']'he wortl Druid signiiies a &~iu man. In Persia they were
called magi, which signifies the same thing.
"Egypt, aays Smith, from whence we derive m:>ny of
our mysteries, hath always borne a distinguished rank it._
history, and was once celebrated aboTe all others for its an-
tiquities, !f:arning opulence, and fertility. In their system,
their principal hero-gods, Osiris and Isis, theologically repre..
s<:ateJ the supreme Being and universal nature; and phy-
stt ally, the two great celestial luminaries, the sun and the
nw:m, by whose influence all nature was .actuated. The
t::.:p~:-ieuced brethren of the Society (says Smith in a note to
lllis pa&sage) are well informed what affinity these symbol'
Digitized by Coogle
0!11' THE OlliGIN 0!' !'ltE!!•.MASONJtY. 13
bear to masonry, and why they are used in all Masonic
Lodges."
In speaking of the apparel of the Masons in their Lodges,
part of which as we see in their public processions, is a
white leather apron, he says, "the Druids were apparelled
in white at the time of their sacrifices and solemn offices.
The Egyptian PrieRts of Osiris wore sno~-white cotton.
The Grecian and most other priests wore white garments.
As Masons, .we regard the principles of those uio we1·e the
first worshippers of the true Gud, imitate their apparel, and
a~sume the badge of innocence.
"The Egyptians," continues Smith,., in the earliest ages,
constituted a great number of Lodges, but with usiduous·
care kept their secrets of Masonry from all strangers. These
secrets have been imperfectly handed ~own to us by tradition
only, and ought to be kept undiscovered to the labourers,
crafts-men, and apprentices, till by good behaviour, and
long study, they become better acquainted in Geometry and
the liberal arti;, and thereby qualified for Master11 and
'Vardens, which is seldom or. ever the case with Englisl1
:Masons."
Under the head of Free Masonry, written by the as! ro-
nomer Lalande, in the French Encyclopedia, I expected from
his great knowledge in astronomy, to have feund much
information on the origin of Masonry; for what connection
can there be between any institution and the sun and twelve
signs of the Zodiac, if there be not something in that insti-
tution, or in its origin, that has reference to astronomy.
Every thing used a·s an hieroglyphic, hn!i reference to the
subject and purpose for which it is used; and we are not to
suppose the Free Masons, among whom are many very
lea(ncJ and scientific men, to be such idiots as to make use
of astronomical signs without some astronomical 'purpose.
But I was much disappointed in my expectation from
Lalande. In speaking of the origin of 1\Iasonry, he says.
" L'origine ~ Ia maco11ierc se pera, comme taut drmtreo dans
l'obscurite destemps ;"that is, the origin of Mawury, like many
others, loses itself in .the obscurity of time. \Vhen I came
to this expression, I supposed Lalande a Mason, and ou en-
']uiry found be was. This pas3ing ot·er savefl him from the
embarassment which Masons are under respecting the dis-
closure of their origin, anll which they arc sworn to conceal.
There is a society nf Masons in Uubliu who take 1he name
of Druids; tbese l\lasou:; must be :suppu~u.l to· ha\·e a reasou
for taking that name, ·
Digitized by Coogle
]t ON THE ORIGIN OF FREE•MASONaY.
1 come now to speak of the cause of secrecy used by the
Masons. .
· The natural source of secrecy is fear. '\Vhen any new
religion over-runs a former religion, the professors of the
new become the persecutors of the old. We see this in nil
the instances that history brings before u~. \Vhen,Hilkial•
the Priest and Shaphan the scribe, in the reign of King
Josiah, found or pretended to find the law, called the law of
Moses, a thousaml years after the time of Moses, and it does
not appear from the 2nd Book of Kings, chapters 22, 23,.
that such law was ever practised or !mown before the time
of Josinh; he established that law as a national religion, aud -
put all the priests of the sun to death. 'Vhen the Christian
religion over-ran the Jewish religion, the Jews were the con-
tiuual subjects of persecution _in all Christian countries.
\Vhen the Protes_tant re1igion in England over-run the Roman
Catholic religion, it was made death for a Catholic priest to
be found in Englaud. As this has been the case in all the ·
instances we have any knowledge of, we are obliged to admit
with respect to the c(\6e in question, an1l that \Vhen the
Christian religion over-nm th~ religion of the Druids it1
Italy, ancient Gaul, Britain, and Ireland, the Druids became
the sul~ects of persecution. This would naluraHy and ne-
cessarily oblige such of them as remained attached to their
original religion to meet in secret and under the strongest
inju·nctions of secrecy. J_'beir s&kty depended upon it.
A false brother might expose the lives·of many of them to
dPstruction; and from the remainii of the rt'ligion of the
Druids, thus preserved, arose the institution which, to avoid
the name of Druid, took that of Mason, and practised, under
this new name, the rights and ceremonies of Druid$.
TilO!\IAS PAI~E.
o itizedbyGoogle
