{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Research\/EvidenceBigelow.pdf","mytitle":"<span class=\"color_dark d_inline_b\"><span class=\"icon_wrap_size_0 circle color_grey_light_5 d_block tr_inherit f_left\"><i class=\"icon-angle-right\"><\/i><\/span>Bigelow Evidence of Survival of Consciousness - Jeffrey Long MD<\/span>","mylang":"de"}
Evidence for Survival of Consciousness in Near-Death Experiences: Decades of
Science and New Insights
©Jeffrey Long, MD
Introduction
Virtually everyone has wondered if there is an afterlife. This is understandable,
given the appropriate concerns about the mortality of ourselves, our loved ones, and all
of humanity. The question of an afterlife has been discussed and debated for millennia.
As a physician practicing the medical specialty of radiation oncology, which is the use of
radiation therapy to treat cancer, I have been intrigued by issues of our mortality. The
question of what happens after bodily death is regularly present in my daily medical
practice as I work with patients that have a life-threatening diagnosis of cancer. Prior
investigations of near-death experience (NDE) combined with the research that I am
presenting in this article have convinced me, based on evidence, that our
consciousness survives bodily death.
Evidence for the reality of an afterlife is available from multiple lines of scholarly
study. Perhaps the most substantial evidence for the reality of an afterlife comes from
near-death experiences (NDEs). It makes sense both scientifically and logically to
investigate the experiences of those who died or had a seriously close brush with death
regarding their possible insights into the survival of consciousness after death. NDE,
and its consistent message of an afterlife, is the focus of this article.
Scholarly research regarding near-death experiences has been published for
over 45 years. NDE first became widely known in 1975 with the publication of Dr.
Raymond Moody’s book Life After Life.1 As early as 2005 it was estimated that “At least
55 researchers or research teams in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia
published at least 65 research studies involving nearly 3500 NDErs, addressing the
experience, its aftereffects, or both.”2
Up to the current time, near-death experiences have been the subject of
hundreds of publications in peer-reviewed scholarly journals. Many of these studies
were published in the world’s leading medical and scientific journals. This article will
reference select previously published NDE research to help present the current state-of-
the-art understanding of NDE as evidence of an afterlife. In addition, I will present new
and previously unpublished research to advance knowledge about NDE and its
important implications for the survival of consciousness after bodily death. Much of the
unpublished research presented in this article updates or expands my previously
published investigations. This new and previously unpublished research helps assure
that this article offers the most current and state-of-the-art insights into the NDE
evidence of an afterlife.
2
For this article, the term near-death experience will refer to lucid, organized
experiences occurring at the time of a life-threatening event so severe that there is
unconsciousness or clinically apparent death with an absent heartbeat. This is a
relatively rigorous concept of NDE, but appropriate to distinguish NDEs from non-
NDEs.3 This concept of NDE is entirely consistent with the definition of near-death
experience from Webster’s dictionary:
An occurrence in which a person comes very close to dying and has memories of a
spiritual experience (such as meeting dead friends and family members or seeing a
white light) during the time when death was near.4
By the very dictionary definition of unconscious, it should not be possible to have
a lucid and organized memory while unconscious.5 And yet, thousands of near-death
experiencers (NDErs) report NDEs with characteristic elements, which is what occurs
during the NDEs. While no two NDEs are the same, my prior research found 12
elements that may occur during NDEs.6 When these elements are present in NDEs,
they usually happen in consistent and logical order. These NDE elements are
consistently observed in NDEs worldwide, in all age groups, and regardless of their
belief systems. The consistent and ordered presence of the elements in NDEs helps us
to be confident of the reality of NDEs.
The 12 elements of near-death experiences are:7
1. An out-of-body experience (OBE).
2. Heightened senses.
3. Intense and generally positive emotions or feelings.
4. Passing into or through a tunnel.
5. Encountering a mystical or brilliant light.
6. Encountering deceased relatives/friends or mystical beings.
7. A sense of alteration in time or space.
8. A life review.
9. Encountering otherworldly (heavenly) realms.
10. Encountering or learning special knowledge.
11. Encountering a boundary or barrier.
12. A voluntary or involuntary return to the body.
Near-death experiences are not rare. Surveys in the United States, Germany,
and Australia estimated that about 4 to 15% of the population previously had NDEs.8,9,10
Thus thousands of NDEs have been available for research in the past, and thousands
of NDEs should be available for future investigations. Studying large numbers of NDEs
gives us greater confidence in the results of the studies than would be possible from
investigating small numbers of NDEs or only anecdotal reports.
I began investigating near-death experiences in 1998 with the establishment of
the Near-Death Experience Research Foundation (NDERF). NDERF started with a
3
website devoted to NDE, www.nderf.org. From its inception the NDERF website had a
detailed questionnaire that included a request for the complete NDE narrative. The
current version of the NDERF questionnaire asks over 100 questions. In the greater
than 20 years that NDERF has been active, we received over 3500 NDEs. This
combination of the availability of thousands of NDEs and the results from detailed
surveys allowed the most extensive investigation of NDEs ever reported.
The current version of the NDERF survey was closed for accrual after receiving
834 sequentially shared NDEs. The immediately prior version of the NDERF survey
included 1122 sequentially shared NDEs. These NDERF studies are the most extensive
scientific investigations of NDEs ever reported.
The two most recent versions of the NDERF surveys included the NDE Scale
questions.11 The NDE Scale asks sixteen questions about the content of the near-death
experience. This Scale is the most validated research method to help distinguish NDEs
from experiences that are not NDEs. A Scale score of 7 or higher is required to classify
experiences as NDEs. Throughout this article, the NDErs whose survey results I am
presenting all had NDE Scale scores of 7 or above. This further validates these
experiences as actual NDEs. All experiences included in the NDERF studies also had
clearly documented life-threatening events at the time of their NDEs. For inclusion in the
NDERF studies presented in this article, unless otherwise stated, all NDEs were single
NDE accounts, shared in English, and were shared by the individual who personally had
the NDE.12
In all NDERF studies, experiences were classified as near-death experiences
only if there was a lucid experience at the time of a close brush with death. Experiences
in the NDERF studies are unbiased NDE accounts. No NDEs were excluded from the
NDERF studies solely because of any particular content. The full text of the NDE
narratives is posted to the NDERF website, excluding comments that would identify the
NDErs, are significantly disparaging toward identifiable individuals, or contain
inappropriate comments such as advocating illicit substance use. The NDEs posted on
the NDERF website are edited to correct obvious spelling and grammar errors. NDEs
quoted in this article from the NDERF website may be paraphrased for clarity. As
remarkable as the NDE quotes are in this article, please remember that they accurately
represent the real experiences of NDErs from all walks of life and around the world.
The NDERF surveys are internet-based. The internet has been utilized for
scholarly surveys for decades. Many published studies directly compared the reliability
of internet surveys with “pencil-and-paper” surveys concluding that they are comparable
in reliability.13,14,15,16,17,18 This important concept is discussed further on the NDERF
website.19
The reliability of the NDERF survey is enhanced by using the tried-and-true
scientific method of redundancy. This involves asking several questions addressing the
same concept in different areas of the survey with slightly different wording. I am
4
impressed at the consistency in responses to the redundant NDERF survey questions.
The time required to complete the greater than 100 questions on the NDERF survey is a
strong disincentive for anyone to complete the survey fraudulently.
Another important method of validating the near-death experiences posted on
NDERF comes from the large volume of visitors to the NDERF website. There are
currently well over 50,000 unique visitors to the website each month. This allows an
enormous number of people to read the posted NDEs and let us know of any concerns
regarding possible plagiarized or falsified NDEs. Over the decades of NDERF’s
existence it has been gratifying that far less than 1% of NDEs submitted to the NDERF
website survey are plagiarized or otherwise falsified. My background as a physician also
helps verify the validity of the described medical circumstances of the life-threatening
events leading to the NDEs. Finally, it is notable that the NDEs published on NDERF
are consistent in content with NDEs in published articles, books, and other reliable
internet collections of NDEs. Further details regarding the methodology of the NDERF
studies are available on the NDERF website.20
My research into near-death experiences was first published in detail in the New
York Times bestselling book Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death
Experiences in 2010. There was intense media interest following the publication of this
book. This provided the opportunity to share my NDE research with millions of people
on shows including the NBC Today Show, The Dr. Oz Show, National Geographic
television, History Channel, The O’Reilly Factor, and on television broadcasts around
the world.
This article presents extensive new research from the NDERF surveys. A vitally
important point about this new research is its transparency. About 98% of near-death
experiencers who shared with NDERF authorized the full text of their NDEs to be
posted on the NDERF website. As a result, the original source of virtually all the NDE
research discussed in this article is available for review by anyone with internet access.
When near-death experiences from the NDERF website are quoted throughout
this article, there are references to the full text of the NDEs posted on the NDERF
website. This is an essential and unique cornerstone of the transparency evident
throughout this article.
As a further commitment to transparency, the NDERF website hosts a custom-
designed search engine: www.nderf.org/nderfexplorer/nderf_explorer.html. This search
engine rapidly finds NDEs on the NDERF website with user-defined custom search
terms. This allows anyone to personally investigate specific types of NDEs or content
within NDEs quickly. The over 3500 NDEs posted on www.nderf.org and the search
engine let anyone see for themselves the remarkably consistent content of NDEs and
their messages of survival of consciousness after bodily death. We are now more
confident than ever about the reality of NDEs from prior published reports and the
5
exceptional consistency in thousands of NDEs that are publicly accessible on the
NDERF website.
This article presents twelve lines of evidence for the reality of near-death
experience and their consistent indication of an afterlife. All twelve lines of evidence
have additional supplementary material posted on www.nderf.org. Supplementary
material is referenced in endnotes throughout this article. Interested readers are
encouraged to explore the extensive examples from NDEs contained in the additional
material. This supplemental material develops the twelve lines of evidence more
convincingly than would be possible in this article alone. The supplementary material
helps us to be more confident than ever that the evidence for the reality of NDEs
derives not just from a limited number of examples, but from the exceptionally
consistent content seen in enormous numbers of NDEs.
Any one of the lines of evidence presented in this article would be convincing to
many. The combination of all twelve lines of evidence converges to the understanding
that NDEs and their consistent messages of an afterlife are real.
The Medically Inexplicable Consciousness of Near-Death Experiences
Near-death experiences, by their very definition, occur at a time of
unconsciousness and even clinical death with an absent heartbeat. Speaking both
medically and logically, having a highly lucid experience while unconscious or clinically
dead should be impossible. However, thousands of NDEs describe lucid conscious
perceptions even while comatose.
Near-death experiences often occur in association with a cardiac arrest, which
means the heart stops beating.21 This condition is popularly known by the phrase “heart
attack”. To understand how remarkable it is to have an NDE at a time of clinical death, it
is essential to know what happens when the heart stops beating. After the heart stops,
blood immediately ceases flowing to the brain. About ten to twenty seconds later, the
electroencephalogram (EEG), a measurement of brain electrical activity, is flat.22 At this
time there is no significant measurable electrical activity in the cortex, which is the outer
part of the brain. Multiple studies show that patients are usually amnesic or confused
about events that took place before or after the cardiac arrest.23,24,25
Consequently, almost immediately after cardiac arrest, it should be impossible to
have a lucid, organized, and conscious experience. But when a near-death experience
occurs, a lucid experience happens even while physical brain function is shut down. The
NDERF website has hundreds of examples of NDEs that happened during a cardiac
arrest.26 The typical high lucidity in NDEs following cardiac arrest defies any possible
medical explanation. Here are two examples of NDEs that occurred at the time of a
cardiac arrest:
6
Joan had a spinal anesthetic for surgery on her ankle. There were complications,
and she coded, which means her heart stopped. Joan describes her near-death
experience:
I went from being in my body to being in a place of absolute love. I can only describe it
like being in a swimming pool, but even my body was filled with this loving. I was one
with this place, but also apart from it. I was still me, but I was far more than me. I was
one with everything - and it was ALL good. I did hear beautiful music, but it wasn't like
our music. The music itself was part of me, but I don't think I was singing. It was more
like it was just part of me, and I was part of it, but it was much more than just me. I felt
weightless and free - absolutely free. I was enfolded in this loving and was part of it too.
There was not one single part of me or part of anything else that was not love.
Individuals did not exist in the same way as we do here. I was still me, but I was also
part of the loving. I KNEW things without hearing a single spoken word. I WAS love. I
KNEW that all religions had it wrong. There is no way rules and judgment could flow
from this place. Earthly religions made it complicated when it was very easy. There is
only love, and all of us are part of it. There is NO way that we cannot be loved. We ARE
love. Time did not exist. I have always loved my family on earth, but I did not miss them.
I did not think of them. I was more joyful than I ever have been. I felt utterly connected
to everything and everyone. We ARE inter-connected as one. There is no such thing as
'death'. This experience has changed me.27
Another example of a near-death experience occurring at the time of a cardiac
arrest is from Yazmine. Her heart stopped for six minutes. She received
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), which brought her back to life. After recovering,
she shared her remarkable NDE:
Then suddenly I was above my body, which was lying on a stretcher bed and wearing a
white hospital gown. I looked at my body and knew it wasn't the real me. It was the thing
I had been caught inside. Now I was free! I felt such happiness! The joy was all-
pervading. We like to get knotted up about the real-world pain, suffering, and loss, but
they are all illusory experiences.
Everything became clear to me. The nurses were calling my name. One nurse was
crying, and another was saying, ''Oh my God, we've lost her!" I was above them thinking
how silly it was that they were making all that fuss. I wondered why they couldn't see
me. I just knew that all was perfectly fabulous! Then I saw an open window about 6
inches wide. I thought, ''Wow, I wonder if I can fit through there?" Then instantly I was in
another state. 28
Near-death experiencers are unconscious, comatose, or clinically dead.
However, the lucidity they experience is usually a state of supernormal consciousness.
The most recent NDERF survey asked 834 NDErs, “How did your highest level of
consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday
consciousness and alertness?” Here are the responses:
7
n=834 NDErs %
More consciousness and alertness than normal 654 78.4
Normal consciousness and alertness 142 17.0
Less consciousness and alertness than normal 38 4.6
These survey results vividly demonstrate that during near-death experiences
consciousness can exist while unconscious or clinically dead. It is extraordinary that
nearly 80% of NDErs report greater consciousness during NDEs than ordinary awake
consciousness. NDEs consistently demonstrate that consciousness can continue even
when the physical brain is shut down.
The most recent NDERF survey also asks, “If your highest level of
consciousness and alertness during the experience was different from your normal
everyday consciousness and alertness, please explain.” In response to this question,
NDErs described the remarkable state of consciousness during their NDEs:
Because that highest level of consciousness was not constrained to the physical plane
of my everyday life, there were more dimensions and less boundaries.29
It was a completely different way for my brain to process things. I thought of many
different things at once and was able to comprehend them instantly. My consciousness
was unconstrained by anything physical. There was infinite thought and wisdom.30
It was a completely new consciousness. I felt like I was experiencing things not just
through my earthly senses but also through other, perhaps new, senses that I wasn't
aware of daily. I felt like my eyes were WIDE open. I could see everything, and it was so
fascinating! I was very aware of each detail.31
It was so clear and nothing I had ever felt before.32
I felt that I was thinking with more than my brain. I WAS total and pure consciousness,
knowingness, and BEingness of everlasting life!33
It felt more real than ordinary life. Life seems like a fog when compared to it.34
These comments dramatically illustrate that consciousness during near-death
experiences can far exceed ordinary earthly consciousness. This accelerated
consciousness is further demonstrated when NDErs review part, or even all, of their
prior lives during their NDEs. This is called the life review and will be discussed in more
detail later. Here is what several NDErs said about their level of consciousness and
alertness during their life reviews:
I am still astounded by my life review. It was exceptionally different from my everyday
consciousness. On this earth plane, seeing an entire lifetime going by simultaneously is
virtually impossible. Yet, I could comprehend as if I were living it all over again.35
8
My mind understood incredibly fast. I worked it out that over 378 million seconds were
compressed to just a few seconds in the life review, which included moral lessons.
That's like superluminal light speed. I am aware it sounds impossible.36
The “378 million seconds” stated above works out to 12 years old, which was his
age at the time of his near-death experience. This is evidence that consciousness not
only survives bodily death, but can be accelerated beyond anything we could possibly
experience in our everyday life.
Prior studies consistently described enhanced mental functioning during near-
death experiences.37 Leading NDE researcher Bruce Greyson, MD found similar
increased consciousness and lucidity in NDEs as the NDERF study:
Near-death experiencers often describe their mental processes during the NDE as
remarkably clear and lucid and their sensory experiences as unusually vivid,
surpassing those of their normal waking state. An analysis of 520 cases in our
collection showed that 80 percent of experiencers described their thinking during the
NDE as “clearer than usual” or “as clear as usual.” Furthermore, in our collection,
people reported enhanced mental functioning significantly more often when they
were actually physiologically close to death than when they were not.38
Vivid and highly lucid near-death experiences at the time of clinical death are
among the best evidence for the survival of consciousness following bodily death. This
is especially true given that supernormal accelerated consciousness is common during
NDEs. The medically inexplicable consciousness of NDEs during cardiac arrest
provides clear and robust evidence that consciousness survives bodily death.
Out-Of-Body Awareness During Near-Death Experiences
At the time of a near-death experience, one of the first and most common
elements to occur is the out-of-body experience (OBE). An OBE is defined as “the
separation of consciousness from the physical body.” When using the term OBE in this
article, we will be referring only to OBEs occurring during NDEs. While NDErs are
unconscious or clinically dead, their consciousness separates from their body. Their
point of conscious perspective usually rises above their body. From this viewpoint, they
may see and hear ongoing earthly events that may include the frantic efforts of medical
personnel trying to resuscitate them. It is uncommon that consciousness during NDEs
moves beside the physical body and only rarely goes below the body. About half of
NDErs describe OBEs with awareness of ongoing earthly events.
Most people have not had an OBE. This makes it difficult for many people to
accept that OBEs are possible. However, this section will provide incontrovertible
evidence that OBEs do occur during near-death experiences with accurate and verified
OBE observations.
9
Susan’s near-death experience is an example of an OBE. Her heart stopped
from a severe allergic reaction to an intravenous injection of contrast for a medical scan.
Severe reactions like what Susan experienced are fortunately extremely rare. Susan’s
OBE observations during her NDE were later verified:
I was getting a CT scan as a diagnostic test for stomach problems. After I was injected
with the contrast dye, I started sneezing uncontrollably. The scans were performed, and
the nurse informed me that it was time for me to leave. At this point I couldn't speak or
breathe. I then passed out, and the nurse frantically called for the code blue team. By
the time the code blue team arrived, I guess I was 'dead.' I saw the team enter and
surround a person; at least that's what I thought at the time. It never dawned on me that
the other person was me. I was very calm but felt terrible for the lady (me) as the code
blue team struggled to get her heart started. I saw 'me' being intubated and chest
compressions as they tried to revive me. I saw my catheterization and everything else
around me. Forty-five minutes later my heart started to beat on its own. I was pulled
back into my own body. I saw everything and related this to the code blue team later,
and they verified that what I saw really happened. I saw everything that happened in
detail during my death. Every member of the code blue team confirmed this later.39
One of the earliest studies of the accuracy of OBE observations during near-
death experiences was by cardiologist Michael Sabom, MD.40 Most NDErs in his study
underwent cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). His study included thirty-two NDErs
who had OBEs during their NDEs. The study comparison group was twenty-five
“seasoned cardiac patients” who did not have NDEs at the time of their close brush with
death. Dr. Sabom asked the patients in both groups to describe their own
resuscitations. This study concluded that the NDErs with OBEs were far more accurate
than those in the control group in describing their resuscitations. The findings of
Sabom’s study were consistent with the NDErs’ generally firm belief that what they
observed in their OBEs really happened, including witnessing their own CPR.
Penny Sartori, PhD, published another study with methodology similar to Dr.
Sabom’s study.41 In her interview of fifteen near-death experiencers, eight of them
described OBEs. She also asked the NDErs who had OBEs to describe their own
resuscitations. The study comparison group were patients who underwent resuscitation
without associated OBEs. Sartori’s study found several NDErs who were remarkably
accurate in describing what they saw during their OBEs. The comparison group that did
not have OBEs was highly inaccurate and often could only guess at what occurred
during their resuscitations. Sartori’s study provides further evidence that those having
NDEs after their hearts stop can have remarkably accurate OBE observations.
It is a medical fact that a highly lucid NDE-like consciousness during CPR
resuscitation without an associated NDE should not be possible.42
Janice Holden, PhD, conducted another significant study of OBEs during near-
death experiences.43 Holden reviewed all NDEs with OBEs previously published in all
10
scholarly articles and books. This investigation included only NDEs where the NDErs or
others sought to verify the accuracy of their OBE observations. Eighty-nine NDE reports
contained observations of earthly, everyday events. Fourteen additional NDE reports
described observations of “nonmaterial, nonphysical phenomena” that could later be
verified. There were four NDEs in the study reporting both types of observations. The
study had stringent criteria for defining the reality of the OBE observations. If any detail
whatsoever in the OBE observations was inaccurate, then the overall OBE observation
was scored as “inaccurate.” Even with such strict criteria, 92 percent of the NDErs’
descriptions of OBEs seemed totally accurate and without any error, as verified by
investigations following the NDEs. This study’s findings are substantial evidence for the
reality of OBE observations during NDEs.
I previously published a study of the accuracy of OBE observations during near-
death experiences.44,45 This investigation reviewed 617 NDEs that were sequentially
shared on the NDERF website survey. Of the 617 NDEs, 287 NDEs included OBE
accounts with enough information to determine the reality of their observations
objectively. A review of these 287 OBEs found 280 (97.6%) that described ongoing
earthly events during their NDEs with entirely realistic observations, and lacking any
content that seemed unreal. From this study group of 287 OBEs, 65 NDErs personally
investigated their OBE observation accuracy after recovering from their close brush with
death. None of these 65 out-of-body experiencers (OBErs) found any inaccuracy in
what they observed during their NDEs. Notably, many verified OBE observations were
far from their bodies and beyond any possible physical sensory awareness.
This remarkably high percentage of accurate OBE observations during near-
death experiences cannot be explained by physical brain function. Further corroboration
comes from many other published reports of NDEs with verified OBEs far from the
physical body.46
Many published near-death experience accounts reported OBEs with accurate
observations of events that were completely unexpected by the NDErs, which provides
more strong evidence that NDEs are actual observations by a consciousness apart from
the body.47 An example of an unanticipated OBE observation during an NDE comes
from Kate. She was under general anesthesia to repair bowel that became paralyzed
after a hysterectomy:
I was on the ceiling looking down at the surgery taking place. I was not distressed. The
surgeon asked for an instrument. He got the wrong one, so he threw it on the floor.
Then I went down a long tunnel that became increasingly bright. I could hear
unbelievable music, and ever since, I have loved music. I came out into a bright place
with flowers, trees, and a stream that had a bridge over it. The bridge appeared to be
made of intertwined tree trunks. At the other side of the bridge was grandma. Next to
her was another woman with brilliant blue eyes, a dark mole near her mouth, and an
indented chin. I had never seen the other woman before. When I stepped onto the
11
bridge, grandma told me to go back, as it was not my time. She said that I would
eventually come there. Then I felt sad as I desperately wanted to be with her. She had
always been there for me when I was a child. Then I felt a huge “whoosh.” The next
thing I knew was that I had returned to consciousness. My mother, whom I was never
close to, was crying by my bed. She said, 'We nearly lost you. You have been very sick
and unconscious for several days.' I said, 'I want to tell you something.' She said, 'No,
just rest.' I insisted and told her about this experience. She did not believe me until I
came to the bridge part. My grandma was her mother. I described the lady with my
grandma, and my mother said that she was her grandma who died long before I was
born. When the surgeon came to see me, he told me how sick I had been and how I
had died on the table. I told him that I was watching and saw him throw the instrument
on the floor. Then I told him the story, and he asked who I had been talking with. I said,
'No one'… The surgeon confirmed that I died during surgery.48
Kate certainly did not expect to see the surgeon throw an instrument on the floor.
She also would not have expected to see her deceased great-grandmother who died
long before she was born.
Several investigators prospectively studied the accuracy of OBEs during near-
death experiences. These studies usually involved placing targets that might be seen
during OBEs in critical care areas of a hospital where an NDE might occur.49,50,51,52,53,54
These targets were usually placed in locations not visible to the patients or the hospital
staff. Very few NDEs occurred during these studies, and even fewer OBEs were
reported. None of the NDErs in these studies had OBEs with their visual perception
directed toward the target. These studies could neither confirm nor refute the reality of
OBE observations during NDEs. It is important to continue prospective NDE
investigations with this methodology to help understand the special consciousness
consistently described in NDEs.
Skeptics argue that when near-death experiencers and others confirm OBE
observations as accurate, they are just lucky guesses. This skeptic argument is refuted
by the consistent accuracy of OBE observations found in multiple large studies. These
prior studies included hundreds of entirely realistic OBE observations, with many
dozens of OBEs later verified as accurate by the NDErs themselves or others.
Additionally, the vast number of case reports with accurate OBE observations, both
previously published and posted on the NDERF website, refute the skeptics. This is
further illustrated in over a dozen examples of NDEs with verified OBE observations in
supplemental material on the NDERF website.55 It is relatively rare for NDERF to
receive an NDE account with an OBE observation that was either unrealistic or later
verified as not having occurred.
Another popular skeptical “explanation” of near-death experiences is that NDEs
are only false memories occurring as NDErs enter or exit unconsciousness from their
life-threatening event. This skeptic argument fails to consider that during NDEs the
maximal level of consciousness and alertness is generally not before or after
12
unconsciousness. During NDEs, maximal consciousness and alertness is typically when
the body is unconscious. An NDERF survey question asks, “At what time during the
experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?” In
reviewing hundreds of narrative responses to this question, NDErs typically state that
their highest level of consciousness and alertness is not at the beginning or end of their
NDE, but somewhere during the NDE or throughout the entire NDE. It is very
uncommon for NDErs to state that their highest level of consciousness and alertness
was when they were entering into or recovering from unconsciousness. This is further
strong evidence that OBEs occur during NDEs, and are not simply false memories.
To emphasize how remarkable these accurate OBE observations are, I issued
this challenge in my book Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death
Experiences:
Are you still a doubter? Try this experiment: Close your eyes for five minutes in a
public place, staying as aware as possible of ongoing events during this time. Have
another person there with you who is seeing and hearing events. At the end of five
minutes, compare your impressions of the five minutes with the person
accompanying you. Even though you were fully alert and trying to be aware of
ongoing events, I can guess that your impressions will contain significant
inaccuracies—far more than those found in the out-of-body experiences of the
subjects in the NDERF study.56
Near-death experiencers almost always believe that their consciousness
separated from their bodies, and their OBE observations were authentic. With hundreds
of accurate OBE observations, we now have substantial evidence from NDEs that
consciousness occurs apart from the physical body even when the body is unconscious
or clinically dead. OBE observations far from the physical body during near-death
experiences are as accurate as the more common OBE observations close to the body.
This evidence from NDEs points directly to the conclusion that our consciousness
continues after bodily death, and an afterlife is a reality.
Supernormal Sensory Awareness in Near-Death Experiences
Supernormal sensory awareness is consistently described in near-death
experiences. This is further evidence that consciousness in NDEs occurs separately
from the physical brain, as would be expected if consciousness survives bodily death.
An excellent example of supernormal sensory awareness in near-death
experiences is visual NDEs in the blind. Blind NDErs have reported normal and even
supernormal vision. In 1998 Kenneth Ring, PhD, and Sharon Cooper, MA, published an
important article in the Journal of Near-Death Studies.57 Their investigation found that
visually impaired or blind people often described normal or supernormal vision during
13
their NDEs. Several especially significant case reports described individuals born
completely blind who had typical NDEs that included detailed vision.
The best documented case of a near-death experience in a person born totally
blind was the account of Vicki.58 To Vicki, vision was unknown and unknowable. Vicki
had two NDEs. Her first NDE was at age 12 due to appendicitis. Her second and more
detailed NDE was at age 22 due to a car accident with head injuries so severe that she
was still recovering a year later. In Vicki’s own words, she describes vision during her
NDE:
I knew it was me… I was pretty thin then. I was quite tall and thin at that point. And I
recognized at first that it was a body, but I didn’t even know that it was mine initially.
Then I perceived that I was up on the ceiling, and I thought, “Well, that’s kind of
weird. What am I doing up here?” I thought, “Well, this must be me. Am I dead?”…I
just briefly saw this body, and …I knew that it was mine because I wasn’t in mine.59
Here is a sample of her detailed visual observations that occurred throughout her
near-death experience:
I think I was wearing the plain gold band on my right ring finger and my father’s
wedding ring next to it. But my wedding ring I definitely saw…. That was the one I
noticed the most because it’s unusual. It has orange blossoms on the corners of it.60
Vicki emphasizes the uniqueness of the vision she had during her near-death
experiences, noting:
This was, she said, the only time I could ever relate to seeing and to what light was,
because I experienced it.61
I personally interviewed Vicki. There is no possible medical explanation for
someone born totally blind to have a near-death experience with such vivid and detailed
vision.
Another example of supernormal vision in near-death experiences is the frequent
description of 360-degree vision during their NDEs. When NDErs use the term 360
degrees to describe what they see during their NDEs, they generally mean true
spherical vision. Thus, NDErs are experiencing visual awareness simultaneously in all
directions - forward, backward, right, left, above, and below. Two illustrative examples
from the NDERF archives are:
Vision is very different and hard to describe. I feel it is more of a perception. At one
point I was able to see and perceive 360 degrees.62
Clear, more colorful, 360 view with zoom action.63
All five senses in our earthly life (seeing, hearing, touch, taste, and smell) are
reported in near-death experiences. NDErs often describe enhanced function of these
five senses, which is remarkable because they are unconscious or clinically dead during
14
their NDEs. Of all these senses, vision is most often described as substantially different
from normal vision during NDEs.64
A previously published NDERF study of vision in near-death experiences is by far
the most extensive study of its type ever conducted.65,66 The prior version of the NDERF
survey asked 1122 NDErs, “Did your vision differ in any way from your normal,
everyday vision (in any aspect, such as clarity, field of vision, colors, brightness, depth
perception, degree of solidness/transparency of objects, etc.)?” Here are the results:
n=1122 NDErs %
Yes 722 64.3
Uncertain 182 16.2
No 218 19.4
Near-death experiencers, in their own words, discussed their supernormal vision:
Everything became more vivid in color and brightness.67
Having no material body, I was sensing, seeing, feeling, on another plane. It is like
trying to explain the colors of the rainbow to a blind person.68
I had extreme clarity and crispness to my vision during the experience. This is
interesting because while I was in the coma a piece of the infection broke off from the
heart valve permanently blinding me in my left eye. Before the experience I had perfect
vision, since the experience I am legally blind in the left eye.69
The most recent version of the NDERF survey question asks, “Please compare
your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior
to the time of the experience.” Responses to this question were in narrative format.
Many near-death experiencers described supernormal vision. The common occurrence
of supernormal vision during NDEs is vividly demonstrated in the hundreds of narrative
responses to this question available on the NDERF website as supplemental material.70
Several NDErs responding to this survey question were legally blind at the time of their
NDEs, yet had clear vision:
I could see clearly without glasses. I could see close up and far away without
restrictions. In this world I am legally blind even with glasses.71
I was born legally blind. I could only see about 12 inches in front of me before
everything turned into a vast blur. During the experience, I could see everything
perfectly.72
Hearing during near-death experiences is also often described as different from
their everyday hearing. The previous version of the NDERF survey asked 1122 NDErs,
“Did your hearing differ in any way from your normal, everyday hearing (in any aspect,
such as clarity, ability to recognize source of sound, pitch, loudness, etc.)?” with these
results:
15
n=1122 NDErs %
Yes 512 45.6
Uncertain 259 23.1
No 351 31.3
I previously published the first reported near-death experience in an individual
born totally deaf.73,74 Brian nearly drowned when he was ten years old. In all of Brian’s
previous life, he communicated with others by sign language or lip-reading. However, in
his NDE, communication was unearthly:
I approached the boundary. No explanation was necessary for me to understand, at
the age of ten, that once I cross[ed] the boundary, I could never come back—period.
I was more than thrilled to cross. I intended to cross, but my ancestors over another
boundary caught my attention. They were talking in telepathy, which caught my
attention. I was born profoundly deaf and had all hearing family members, all of which
knew sign language! I could read or communicate with about twenty ancestors of
mine and others through telepathic methods. It overwhelmed me. I could not believe
how many people I could telepathize with simultaneously.75
Communication for Brian during his near-death experience was via telepathy
which he never previously experienced. NDErs commonly report communicating by
telepathy. Other hearing-impaired NDErs may describe supernormal hearing:
I'm a deaf-impaired person. But in the other world experience, I was not deaf. I heard
beautiful classical music.76
I am partially deaf in the left ear. At the time of this I could hear very well.77
I became aware that my eyesight was better than it had ever been. I could see details
and colors that I had never seen before. I have always been hard of hearing. But in my
experience, my hearing was superior to anything it had ever been. The voices I heard
were very loud, clear, and sounded almost like music rather than speech.78
As discussed in the Introduction, the most commonly used research tool to
distinguish NDEs from non-NDEs is the NDE Scale, which is composed of sixteen
questions.79 The more recently developed NDE-C scale has also been proposed as a
questionnaire to help distinguish NDEs from non-NDEs, but is not yet widely used in
NDE research.80,81 Many NDE Scale questions pertain to supernormal awareness. Here
are several relevant NDE Scale questions and the responses from 834 NDErs in the
most recent NDERF survey:
Were your senses more vivid than usual?
n=834 NDErs %
Incredibly more vivid 408 48.9
More vivid than usual 259 31.1
16
No 167 20.0
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?
n=834 NDErs %
Incredible peace or pleasantness 653 78.3
Relief or calmness 125 15.0
No 56 6.7
Skeptics say that near-death experiences are only the result of what they would
have expected to happen when they die. However, supernormal sensory awareness is
present in the great majority of NDEs. It is not reasonable to believe that NDErs would
expect to suddenly have supernormal senses that they never had at any time in their
lives. During a life-threatening event with a sudden loss of consciousness, NDErs would
not have time to formulate an expectation of what the experience should be like. In
other life-threatening events, consciousness diminishes progressively with fading
sensory awareness. For NDEs starting with a progressive loss of consciousness, it is
also unreasonable to believe that a sudden transition to supernormal sensory
awareness would be expected.
During the unconsciousness of near-death experiences, sensory awareness and
consciousness not only continue but are often supernormal. Supernormal sensory
awareness is more common in NDEs with higher NDE Scale scores which are more
detailed NDEs. All of this is further evidence that our sensations are part of the
consciousness surviving bodily death.
Another important point about the consciousness of near-death experiencers is
that they accurately remember their NDEs over a prolonged time. Bruce Greyson, MD,
published a study of seventy-two NDErs who shared their NDEs and answered the
sixteen NDE Scale questions, then answered the same Scale questions again nearly
twenty years later.82 Responses to both NDE Scale question administrations were
compared. There were no significant differences in the overall Scale scores or
responses to any of the sixteen questions. Dr. Greyson found that NDE accounts do not
seem embellished or forgotten even after nearly twenty years. This study provides some
of the most substantial evidence that NDEs are precisely remembered even decades
after they occur.
The largest prospective study of near-death experiences by Pim van Lommel,
MD, also found that NDEs are remembered accurately.83 In this study, NDErs were
interviewed about their NDEs shortly after they happened, then interviewed again two
and eight years later. This study found that even eight years after the NDEs, NDErs
accurately recalled the details of their experiences.
17
The best evidence available finds that near-death experiences are recalled
correctly, with details of the NDEs neither embellished nor forgotten. This conclusion
validates the reliability of retrospective NDE studies where the NDEs may be shared
years after their occurrence.
Near-Death Experiences Under General Anesthesia
The Merriam-Webster dictionary defines general anesthesia as “anesthesia
affecting the entire body and accompanied by loss of consciousness.”84 Anesthesia may
be either local or general anesthesia. When the term anesthesia is used in this article, it
will be referring only to general anesthesia. Adequate anesthesia by itself produces
unconsciousness. Occasionally a life-threatening event occurs while under anesthesia.
Sometimes patients under anesthesia are already close to death from a life-threatening
injury or illness that required urgent surgical intervention. The patient may have a
complication from the surgery or an allergy to anesthetic medications that create a life-
threatening situation. The life-threatening event may be severe enough to cause a
cardiac arrest during surgery, which means that the patient’s heart stops.
Cardiac arrest under anesthesia is generally well documented, as the heart
function and breathing are carefully monitored during surgery while anesthesia is used.
As previously discussed, a cardiac arrest produces unconsciousness and coma within
seconds for people not under anesthesia. Remarkably, typical near-death experiences
do happen following a cardiac arrest while under anesthesia. As an example, I
previously published the NDE of Valerie, who was 17 years old when her heart stopped
during surgery while under anesthesia:
Sometime during surgery I went through a tunnel. Parts of my life passed me by. I
had closed my eyes tight; I remember someone saying, open your eyes. I was in a
pure white space and could see rooms with spirits walking around. I started to cry,
but no tears. I remember looking at my hands, and they were translucent. Then an
angel appeared; she had such a radiant glow to her beauty to behold. She comforted
me, telling me I was safe. I remember telling her I wasn’t ready to die. She said she
knew that. Then she pointed down, and I could see the doctors doing CPR on a little
girl. Not really understanding that was me, I watched my whole operation, CPR and
all. I told her that was so sad, she looks so young. Then she said they are bringing
her back, and I felt like I was pushed and thrown back into that painful body.85
I previously published a study comparing near-death experiences during general
anesthesia with NDEs occurring under all other circumstances.86,87 This study was a
subset of the prior version of the NDERF survey. The NDEs occurring under general
anesthesia in this study generally described a cardiac arrest as the event precipitating
the NDEs. Twenty-three NDEs that occurred while under general anesthesia were
compared with 590 NDEs not occurring while anesthetized. The NDERF survey
included thirty-three questions asking specifically about the NDE content. The answers
18
from the two groups to these thirty-three questions were compared using a statistical
tool called chi-square. Given the large number of survey questions about the NDE
content, responses between the two groups were considered statistically significantly
different at p<0.01, meaning there was less than a 1 in 100 chance that the differences
in responses could be due to chance. A trend toward statistical difference was set at
p<0.03, or a less than 3 in 100 chance that the differences in responses might be due
only to chance. This study found:
There were no significant differences in the responses to any of the thirty-three
survey questions between the two groups, with the exception that anesthesia-
associated NDEs reported encountering a tunnel more often. Near-death
experiences described as occurring under general anesthesia had all the NDE
elements as those not occurring under general anesthesia. Remarkably, NDE
elements appear to occur with the same frequency, with the exception of a tunnel
experience, regardless of whether or not the NDEr was under general anesthesia at
the time of their experience.88
If near-death experiences were solely due to physical brain function, NDEs under
general anesthesia should have less consciousness and alertness than other NDEs.
But that is not what the NDERF studies found. A question from the most recent NDERF
survey asked, “How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the
experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?” The
answer “More consciousness and alertness than normal” was selected by 70.0 percent
of the 30 NDErs whose NDEs occurred under anesthesia, and 78.7 percent of the 804
NDErs whose NDEs did not occur under anesthesia. The percentages of the responses
to the survey question were not statistically different between the two groups.
The NDERF studies found that typical NDEs happen under anesthesia, usually
with greater consciousness and alertness as commonly described in all NDEs. Either
general anesthesia alone or cardiac arrest alone results in unconsciousness without any
possibility of a lucid memory. Thus, typical near-death experiences occurring while
under general anesthesia are doubly medically inexplicable. This is powerful evidence
that consciousness can function apart from the physical body and separate from
biological brain function.
Bruce Greyson, MD also reported near-death experiences that occurred under
general anesthesia:
In our collection of NDEs, 127 out of 578 NDE cases (22%) occurred under general
anesthesia, and they included such features as OBEs that involved experiencers’
watching medical personnel working on their bodies, an unusually bright or vivid light,
meeting deceased persons, and thoughts, memories, and sensations that were
clearer than usual.89
Skeptics suggest that near-death experiences occurring during general
anesthesia can only be the result of too little anesthesia. This argument ignores NDEs
19
resulting from accidental anesthesia overdose. Skeptics also overlook that too little
anesthesia, medically termed anesthesia awareness, produces totally different
experiences. Unlike NDEs, anesthesia awareness experiences are often unpleasant,
painful, and frightening experiences.90 Anesthesia awareness more often involves brief
and fragmentary memories with hearing described more than vision. Fortunately,
anesthesia awareness is rare, with only about 1 to 3 in 1000 patients experiencing
this.91
The NDERF website supplemental material section has 30 examples of near-
death experiences that occurred while under general anesthesia.92 Near-death
experiences under general anesthesia show that full consciousness can exist
separately from the physical body. NDEs arising while under general anesthesia are
robust evidence that consciousness survives bodily death.
Encountering Deceased Loved Ones in Near-Death Experiences
In most experiences of altered consciousness such as dreams or hallucinations,
if any beings are encountered, they are generally alive at the time. Virtually everyone
has dreams and is aware of this. If near-death experiences were only due to physical
brain function, then it would be expected that a predominance of the beings
encountered would be alive at the time of their NDEs. But as you will see, that is not
what happens in NDEs.
Near-death experiencers may see living people during the OBE part of their
NDEs as they observe ongoing earthly events. However, when NDEs are taking place
in an unearthly or “heavenly” realm, virtually all beings encountered are deceased at the
time of the NDEs. This was demonstrated in a study published by Emily Williams Kelly,
PhD.93 She investigated 74 NDErs who met the deceased during their NDEs, and
compared this group to 200 NDErs who did not meet deceased people. This study
found only 4 percent of NDErs described meeting beings who were alive at the time of
their NDEs. Kelly found that 95 percent of beings encountered were relatives of the
NDErs. Only 5 percent of the beings were friends or acquaintances.
I previously published a study of beings encountered during near-death
experiences.94,95 This was an investigation of 97 NDEs that described meeting beings
they knew from their earthly life. This study excluded people seen by the NDErs only
during their OBE observations of earthly events, and also beings seen only during life
reviews. Thirteen NDEs were excluded from the study because the NDErs did not state
whether the beings they met were alive or deceased at the time of their NDEs. The
beings described in the 13 excluded NDEs were mainly grandparents and less often
parents. From this information and the context of the NDE narratives, probably the great
majority, and perhaps all, of the beings described in these 13 NDEs were deceased.
Among the remaining 84 NDEs, only 3, which equals 4 percent, described encountering
beings that were definitely alive when they had their NDEs. Thus a remarkably high 96
20
percent of NDErs described encounters with only deceased beings during their NDEs, a
percentage consistent with the findings of the Kelly study. These two studies provide
additional significant evidence for the reality of NDEs and an afterlife.
When deceased loved ones are encountered in near-death experiences, they
generally appear completely healthy even if they died of a disfiguring accident or illness.
Beloved pets that died are also regularly seen in NDEs. Whether NDErs meet cherished
deceased people or pets, the reunions are characteristically very joyful. NDErs may also
encounter seemingly familiar beings unknown to them during their NDEs that they later
identify through old family picture albums.96
Near-death experiencers may describe encountering deceased loved ones that
they were not aware had died at the time of their NDEs. Elisabeth Kübler-Ross, MD,
published an example of this.97 A Native American woman was hit by a car. She died a
few minutes later by the road, but before she died, she told a stranger who stopped to
help her, “If you ever get near the Indian reservation, please tell my mother that I was
OK. Not only OK, but very happy because I am already with my dad.” The stranger
drove to the Indian reservation where the victim’s mother told him that her husband, the
victim’s father, died of a coronary 700 miles away one hour before the car accident.
Bruce Greyson, MD, published a compilation of experiences with awareness of
deceased people not known to be dead at the time of the experiences.98 These
accounts included near-death experiences and other related experiences. Greyson
called them Peak in Darien cases. He concluded:
Such cases cannot easily be explained as hallucinations based on expectation; in
fact, the experiencer is usually quite surprised and sometimes puzzled by the vision
of someone thought to be alive. In some of these cases, the appearance of the vision
suggests strong motivation on the part of the deceased individual to communicate a
message. As such, these Peak in Darien cases provide some of the most persuasive
evidence for the ontological reality of deceased spirits.99
NDERF has received many near-death experience accounts describing
encounters with people who, unbeknownst to the NDErs, had died before their NDEs.100
This is illustrated in an NDE from Sandy, who was five years old when she nearly died
of encephalitis:
Another smaller beautiful light joined us. The light was a girl about ten years old that
looked somewhat like me. She recognized me. We hugged, and she said, "I am your
sister. I was named after our grandmother, Willamette, who died one month before I
was born. Our parents called me Willie for short. They were waiting to tell you about me
later when our parents felt that you were ready." We talked without words. It seemed
strange looking back on it, but it was natural at the time. As she kissed me on the head,
I felt her warmth and love. She said, "You need to go back now, Sandy." I was shocked
as my next-door neighbor and dear friend, Glen, formed and shouted, "Sandy, go home,
go home now." He said it with such authority that I quit crying and was back in my body
21
instantly. Later, a day after I went into the hospital, I was told that our neighbor, Glen,
had died from a sudden heart attack. I drew a picture of my "angel sister" who greeted
me and described all she said. My parents were shocked and had a horrified look. They
got up and left the room. After a while, they returned. They confirmed that they lost a
daughter named Willie. Willie died of accidental poisoning about one year before I was
born. They had decided not to tell my brother or me until we better understood what life
and death were about.101
This remarkable near-death experience involved encountering a family friend that
she was not aware had died, and meeting her sister who died before Sandy was born.
NDErs that encounter deceased siblings during their NDEs that they never knew existed
are substantial evidence for the reality of NDE. These types of NDEs also provide vital
evidence that NDEs really are providing awareness of an afterlife.
Many other near-death experience accounts describe encounters with deceased
brothers and sisters they never knew existed. NDEs with this content generally occur in
childhood. Parents may be reluctant to tell their young children about a tragic sibling
loss until they are old enough to understand death better. Jessica met her brother for
the first time when she nearly died at age eight from encephalitis:
I did not know about my brother before my experience. I met him at the end of the
tunnel. We talked for a while. I was thrilled, as I had asked for a brother since the age of
three. I was not sure what place we were in, but we were sitting on white garden
furniture. We talked for a while. I asked questions such as does God exist? He
answered that God does exist.102
James was also eight years old when he contracted an illness that nearly killed
him. In his near-death experience he met several deceased siblings he never knew he
had:
Another angel arrived. We departed, traveling through what most would describe as a
tunnel. We reached the gates of Paradise. After arriving, I saw someone that looked
somewhat like me. I asked who that person was and was told it was my brother. I did
not know I had a brother that had died. We were joined by two other people who were
introduced as another brother and sister. They were a set of twins that had also died.103
Encountering the deceased in near-death experiences, especially if the NDErs
never knew they had died, is another very persuasive line of evidence for the reality of
NDEs and an afterlife.
Cross-Cultural Near-Death Experiences
Portions of the NDERF website are translated into over 30 languages.
Thousands of near-death experiences have been shared with NDERF in English and
hundreds more in non-English languages from all around the world. This allowed the
22
most extensive cross-cultural investigation of NDEs ever conducted. These studies
found the core content of NDEs to be strikingly similar wherever they occur throughout
the world, including in non-Western countries.
I previously published an investigation of 26 near-death experiences shared in
English, but with the NDErs living in countries where English was not the predominant
language.104 These NDErs lived in different cultures specific to their country, yet were
sufficiently fluent in English that they could share their NDEs and complete the NDERF
questionnaire in English. The study comparison group was 583 NDEs shared in English
from countries where the predominant language was English. The answers from the two
groups to 33 survey questions from the prior version of the NDERF survey regarding the
elements of their NDEs were compared. There was no statistical difference in
responses to any of the 33 survey questions between the two groups. The study
conclusion was:
The content of near-death experiences appears to be the same around the world.
Such experiences, in both English-and non-English-speaking countries, include the
same NDE elements. The elements appear to follow the same order of occurrence.
In reading the accounts of NDEs from around the world, including those shared in
English and those translated into English, I am impressed at how strikingly similar
they are.105
An essential part of cross-cultural near-death experience research is the study of
non-Western NDEs. Non-Western countries are defined as areas of the world that are
not predominantly of Christian or Jewish heritage.106 This is a challenging area of NDE
research because there is often a language barrier when studying non-Western NDEs.
NDEs are often considered to be ineffable, or difficult to describe in words.107 Language
obstacles may compound the problem of ineffability.108 In non-Western countries, NDEs
may be less known than in Western countries. Most previously published investigations
of non-Western NDEs included very few NDEs, which limited their ability to compare
and contrast non-Western NDEs with Western NDEs accurately.109,110,111,112
Prior non-Western near-death experience research was often hampered by the
lack of a consistent definition of NDE. Many previously published non-Western NDEs
were second-person and not shared by the individual who had the experience. A review
of the older non-Western NDE literature finds that many described experiences would
be better classified as, for example, a period of altered consciousness during recovery
from a life-threatening event, dreams, or hallucinatory febrile experiences.113
Contemporary non-Western NDE research is increasingly focused on investigating
experiences appropriately classified as NDEs, with a lucid experience during
unconsciousness due to a life-threatening event.
To better understand non-Western near-death experiences, I collaborated with
Alinaghi Ghasemiannejad, PhD, an Iranian NDE researcher. We investigated 20 non-
Western Iranian NDEs. The conclusion of this study was:
23
Results from our investigation of Iranian Shiite Muslim NDEs suggest that Muslim
NDEs do occur and that they are not rare. This suggests that NDEs may be
culturally universal and may reflect transpersonal and transcendental phenomena
rather than only materially and culturally based phenomena. The results also suggest
that Shiite Muslim NDEs may not be especially different in their main elements from
typical Western NDEs and therefore not heavily influenced by cultural variations such
as prior religious beliefs.114
I collaborated with Dr. Ghasemiannejad again in another study of 17 Iranian
near-death experiences. This study compared the content and aftereffects of Iranian
NDEs with typical Western NDEs. This study found:
These findings might be understood to indicate that NDE content reflects three
“levels’: a deep structural level- frequently recurring general features such as
perception of the physical world from a position outside the body, light, passageways
such as tunnels, beings, a border or barrier, and a sense of return to the physical
body- along with surface structures at two levels: cultural- such as the appearance of
beings usually associated with a particular religion, such as Christ in Christianity and
Imams in Shia Islam, and individual- features of the NDE unique to each NDEr. From
this perspective, universal/cross-cultural features appear along with cultural and
individual expressions of these features, affirming the co-existence of all three levels
in any NDE.115
The findings of this study make sense. No two near-death experiences are the
same. There is almost always an individual aspect to the NDE. For example, when
deceased loved ones are encountered, they are generally personally known by the
NDErs. When NDErs encounter spiritual beings, they are usually from their own
religions and not unfamiliar spiritual beings from other faiths. However, shining through
these expected individual differences in NDEs is their deeper universal/cross-cultural
consistency. Worldwide, the characteristic elements of NDEs are universally reported
and typically occur in a consistent order.
The most recent version of the NDERF survey allows the unique opportunity to
directly compare non-Western with Western near-death experiences. Study entry
criteria were a single NDE, shared in English on the English version of the NDERF
survey, shared in first-person, and an NDE Scale score of 7 or higher. Twenty-five non-
Western NDEs met these criteria and were compared to 809 Western NDEs meeting
the same criteria. Non-Western NDEs shared in English was felt to be the best source
of direct comparison to Western NDEs because many survey questions contain words
and phrases that might be difficult to translate into non-English. NDErs in non-Western
countries that know English well enough to complete a detailed survey should be in the
best position to answer the English version of the NDERF survey reliably. There were
34 survey questions regarding the NDE elements- which is what occurred during the
NDEs. Survey responses between the two groups were compared using chi-square
statistics. Due to the large number of survey questions asked, statistical significance for
24
this chi-square comparison was set at p<0.01 and borderline statistical significance at
p<0.05.
Direct comparison of non-Western and Western near-death experiences in this
manner has never been previously reported. The results of this study found that every
element of NDE occurred in both groups. Of the 34 survey questions regarding NDE
elements, there was no statistical significance in the responses between the two groups
for 30 of the 34 questions (88%). Borderline statistical significance was present in
another four of the survey questions (12%). Overall, there was no difference in
responses to the survey questions that were statistically significant or even borderline
significant for 26 (76%) of the 34 survey questions.116
Several survey questions with statistically different responses between non-
Western and Western NDErs might be challenging to answer even for those with
English as a first language. For example, two survey questions with statistically different
responses between the two groups were, “How did your highest level of consciousness
and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness
and alertness?” and “During your experience, did you encounter any specific
information / awareness that a mystical universal connection or unity/oneness either
does (or does not) exist?” Given the complexity of some survey questions, the similarity
in responses between the non-Western and Western NDE groups is notable. This study
of the content of non-Western and Western NDEs provides further significant evidence
of a deep universal and cross-cultural consistency among NDEs worldwide regardless
of the cultural background of the NDErs.
Western near-death experiences as a whole do not seem to be significantly
culturally determined. I was part of a team that reviewed thirty years of research about
the characteristics of Western near-death experiences. Our findings were published in a
scholarly book chapter. In this review, we could not find any core characteristics of
Western NDEs that seemed culturally determined. We concluded:
Researchers so far have tended to find that most hypothesized predictors of NDE
occurrence, incidence, contents, and aftereffects are not reliable.117
The cross-cultural study of near-death experiences is more than just statistics. To
deeply understand NDEs there is no substitute for reading NDEs from all around the
world, including non-Western countries. Volunteer human translators have translated
near-death experiences shared with NDERF into over thirty different languages. This
allows people everywhere to readily understand the remarkable similarity of the content
of NDEs regardless of where in the world the NDEs occurred.
The NDERF website has supplemental material with over 200 NDEs shared in
dozens of non-English languages that have been translated into English.118 The full text
of the 25 non-Western NDEs from the study reported in this section is also available as
supplemental material.119 In addition to the NDEs in the supplemental material, NDERF
has hundreds of additional NDEs shared in non-English languages that have been
25
translated into English. Throughout the NDERF website there are scores of non-
Western NDEs shared in both English or the non-English native language. Reading
NDEs from around the world is a convincing way to understand their deep cross-cultural
core consistency. The striking similarity of the content of NDEs globally, including those
from non-Western countries, is further substantial evidence for the reality of NDEs.
Children’s Near-Death Experiences
An important line of evidence for the reality of near-death experiences and its
consistent message of the afterlife comes from investigating the NDEs of very young
children. If NDE content is significantly culturally determined or based on prior life
experiences, then very young children should have NDE content quite different from
older children and adults. However, that is not what investigations by myself and others
found. I previously published a study comparing the content of NDEs in very young
children with older children and adults.120,121 I compared the NDEs of 26 children with
NDEs occurring at age five and younger with 585 NDEs that occurred at age six and
older. The average age of the five-year-old and younger group at the time of their NDEs
was 3.6 years old. Responses to 33 survey questions from the prior version of the
NDERF survey regarding the content of the NDEs were compared. This study
concluded:
Very young children had every NDE element that older children and adults had.
There was no statistically significant difference in the responses to any of the thirty-
three survey questions regarding the content of the NDEs between very young
children and older children and adults. There were only two questions with a trend
toward a statistically different response between the two groups.122
This prior study was replicated with data from the most recent version of the
NDERF survey that included 34 survey questions regarding the content of near-death
experiences. This investigation compared NDEs occurring in 33 children age five and
younger with 798 NDEs that happened at age six and older. The average age of the
five-year-old and younger group at the time of their NDEs was 3.8 years old. Three
NDEs were excluded as information about their age when their NDEs occurred was not
available. Chi-square statistics were used to compare the survey question responses
between the two groups. The criteria for statistical significance were the same as was
used for the study of non-Western NDEs reported in the previous section. The full text
of all 33 NDEs occurring in children age five and younger is available on the NDERF
website.123
There were no statistically significant differences in responses to any of the 34
survey questions between the two groups. There were only three survey questions with
borderline statistically significant different answers between the two groups. Very young
children near-death experiencers were borderline statistically more likely to respond to
the survey question, “Did you see deceased or religious spirits?” with a response of
26
“No.” Very young children NDErs were also borderline statistically more likely to
respond “No” to the question, “Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who
previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus,
Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?” Young children NDErs also were borderline statistically
significantly more likely to reply “Uncertain” to the survey question, “Did you reach a
boundary or limiting physical structure?” For the other 31 survey questions, there were
no statistical or borderline statistical differences in the responses between the two
groups.
Understandably, very young children might be less likely to encounter deceased
or religious spirits, and beings from religions during their near-death experiences due to
their young age. They may not have lived long enough to be aware of or understand
religious beings.
The findings of the NDERF studies are corroborated by an investigation of Cherie
Sutherland, PhD, a prominent near-death experience researcher. Dr. Sutherland
reviewed studies published over thirty years in the scholarly literature regarding the
NDEs of children, including very young children. Dr. Sutherland concluded this about
NDEs in very young children:
It has often been supposed that the NDEs of very young children will have a content
limited to their vocabulary. However, it is now clear that the age of children at the
time of their NDE does not in any way determine its complexity. Even prelinguistic
children have later reported quite complex experiences… Age does not seem in any
way to affect the content of the NDE.124
Skeptics may say that near-death experiences in children may not be accurately
recalled when reported many years later. This concern was addressed by William
Serdahely, PhD, in his study comparing five NDEs shared by children with five NDEs
that occurred in children and were shared many years later when they were adults. He
compared 47 NDE characteristics between the two groups. Dr. Serdahely concluded:
This study…supports the claims of previous researchers that adults’ retrospective
reports of childhood NDEs are not embellished or distorted.125
Another study by Bruce Greyson, MD, provided substantial evidence that near-
death experiences are neither embellished nor forgotten even after nearly 20 years.126
This study included 72 NDErs who responded to the sixteen questions in the NDE Scale
in the 1980s and answered the same questions again an average of more than 19 years
later. Greyson compared the responses from the two NDE Scale administrations. There
were no significant differences in the overall NDE Scale scores or the answers to any of
the sixteen questions comprising the NDE Scale.
The most extensive prospective study of near-death experiences ever reported
also found that near-death experiencers accurately recalled their NDEs eight years after
the NDEs occurred.127
27
The most recent version of the NDERF survey asked 834 near-death
experiencers, “How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other
life events that occurred around the time of the experience?” Responses were:
n=834 NDErs %
I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that
occurred around the time of the experience. 598 71.7
I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that
occurred around the time of the experience. 142 17.0
I remember the experience less accurately than other life events that
occurred around the time of the experience. 17 2.0
I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my
remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the
experience. 77 9.2
This survey question allowed a narrative response. Near-death experiencers
often shared that they remember their NDEs exceptionally vividly:
I remember it more accurately than any other experience in my life because it was
absolutely fascinating to see the other side!128
This experience has been vividly with me for 50 years. It is as real today as when it
happened.129
Although this happened many years ago, this is the event that stands out among all
others in my memory.130
The best evidence finds that NDEs are generally reliably recalled years to
decades later. This is exceptionally pertinent not only for investigating NDEs that
occurred in children but also for helping to validate all retrospective NDE research
regardless of the age that the NDEs occurred.
The NDERF studies are by far the most extensive investigations of near-death
experiences in very young children. These studies find that the core content of the
NDEs in very young children is impressively similar to the core content of NDEs in older
children and adults. We are now more confident than ever that the content of NDEs in
very young children is not significantly affected by their NDEs occurring at such a young
age. The NDEs of very young children strongly support the concept that core NDE
content is not significantly modified by prior life experiences, beliefs, or cultural
influences. This is further strong evidence that NDEs are real, along with their
consistent message of an afterlife.
Life Reviews in Near-Death Experiences
28
A life review during a near-death experience involves seeing all or part of their
previous earthly life. Life reviews occur in about 20% of NDEs.131 The details described
in life reviews may vary. One study found:
The most important finding of the present study is the evidence of a wide variety in
the life reviews the subjects experience… The popular picture of the ‘whole life’ being
seen all at once (panoramically) is false as a generalization about these experiences.
Some subjects do indeed have this kind of experience, but the majority [do] not.132
The NDERF studies also found that the setting in which life reviews occur during
near-death experiences can vary. In life reviews, it is common for NDErs to see pictures
of their life flashing, as if on a screen. The life review may be a sequential order of prior
life events, or it may skip around. There is often one or more beings with the NDErs
during life reviews. NDErs almost never report being judged by other beings during their
life reviews. NDErs report a range of emotions, including feeling happy or sad about
what they see in their prior lives. Life reviews are among the transformative events that
happen in NDEs.133 The lessons learned from the life review may help NDErs to live
better lives after they recover from their close brush with death.
Here are some examples of life reviews in near-death experiences:
My whole life was there for me to witness, much like a movie film of pictures filling up in
front of me with a solid background. I was not aware of anything other than these
pictures. I would not call this "my life flashing before me" because it was still and entirely
present. Knowing and experiencing each emotion ALL AT ONCE, and not one after the
other, was incredible to me.134
There is no way to describe the immaculate beauty of this experience, though I've tried
every day for the last 35 years. I wish I could find a way. Bliss is a merely descriptive
word. 'Bliss' is close yet does not convey what I wish I could. I saw and experienced
every detail of my present life up to that moment. It was like watching a movie yet
starring as the main character while everything happened simultaneously. As I had not
lived my life in a state of serene joy, I felt quite sad and ashamed. I re-experienced
every moment of my life in refined detail, including feelings, thoughts, sounds, smells,
people, loves, hates, anger, sorrow, fear, happiness, fun times, food, everything up until
I was in the Goldenness. It was like I relived my life, but from the standpoint of a
witness.135
Some life reviews include awareness of only part of their prior lives:
It was so natural. We discussed my life while I relived what seemed like portions of it.
The review proceeded from the oldest event to the youngest event and only stopped
when I seemed uncertain of my actions at the time. There was no condemnation, right
or wrong. I felt complete acceptance and understanding with only one loving 'don't you
think you could have done it this way' type of comment. You judge yourself!136
29
One of the more astounding aspects of life reviews is that some near-death
experiencers relive their lives through the perspective of those they interacted with:
I went through a life review. The life review was all about my relationships with others.
During this, I felt what they had felt in my relationship with them. I felt their love, pain, or
hurt from things I did or said to them. Their hurt or pain made me cringe. I found myself
thinking, 'Oooh, I could have done better there.' But what I mainly felt was love, so it
was not too bad. No one judged me during this life review. There was no disapproval
from anyone else. I felt only my personal reactions to it all while the feeling of
unconditional love continued to saturate me. I judged myself, and nobody else judged
me in this life review.137
Here is another example of a life review with awareness of the feelings of others:
I went into a dark place with nothing around me, but I was not scared. It was peaceful
there. I started to see my whole life unfolding before me like a film projected on a
screen, from babyhood to adult life. It was so real! I was looking at myself, but it was
better than a 3D movie. I could sense the feelings of the people I had interacted with
through the years. I could feel the good and bad emotions I made them experience.138
Life reviews with awareness of what others were thinking and feeling while the
near-death experiencers interacted with them are robust evidence for a consciousness
that transcends the physical. These types of NDEs support the reality of an afterlife with
retained accurate and detailed remembrance of our entire lives.
When near-death experiences occur, the NDErs are usually unconscious or
clinically dead for only a brief time. The awareness of part or all of their prior lives during
such a short time of unconsciousness illustrates the remarkable acceleration of
consciousness commonly described in NDEs.
I previously published a study investigating the reality of what is observed in life
reviews.139,140 If near-death experiences and their associated life reviews are real, then
it would be expected that the events in life reviews, even if long forgotten, actually did
occur. I reviewed 617 sequentially shared NDEs and found life reviews described in 88
(14%). In reviewing these 88 NDEs, none of the life reviews contained any unrealistic
content, either by my determination or the NDErs themselves.
NDErs may become aware of events during their life reviews that they had
forgotten. However, when they later investigated what they saw in their life reviews, they
confirmed that the events actually occurred. Here is an example from Alma, who was 54
years old when she had her NDE. Alma was vividly aware of her early childhood during
a life review:
A moving-art drawing of my life was presented to me, followed by another, and yet
another. I was having a life review. I was moving in the drawings, and they showed me
that I was kind to people at different ages of my life. At about two years of age, the first
moving drawing was me chasing a butterfly that was teasing me to pursue it. I was
30
giggling and having fun as I was playing with this butterfly. I had a pinafore edge dress
on, was in a park, and running with the delight of being a little girl. I was sure that I saw
myself in the moving picture drawings being presented to me. It was a life review,
although I could not have known that at the time. I later saw a picture of myself as a
child and recognized that I was in the same park as during my NDE. I was about two
years old in the photo. I asked my mother to find a photo of me for a class project in
2017. I saw the pinafore dress I was wearing during my NDE.141
Life reviews consistently describe events that actually occurred in the lives of
near-death experiencers. Virtually nobody has a perfect recall of every prior event of
their life unless they have an NDE. Examples of over 150 life reviews are available as
supplemental material on the NDERF website.142 NDErs that have life reviews can
vividly understand how their actions affect others. This awareness helps them to make
more loving choices for the rest of their lives. This observation, along with the
remarkable acceleration of consciousness and verification of long-forgotten memories in
life reviews, provides further strong evidence for the reality of near-death experiences
and an afterlife.
Near-Death Experience Aftereffects
Near-death experiences usually produce long-lasting changes in beliefs and
attitudes. The changes following NDEs are collectively referred to as aftereffects and
often take many years to develop fully.143 The aftereffects of NDEs have been
extensively investigated. One of the earliest NDE studies found that NDErs were more
likely to be self-confident, have a stronger sense of spirituality, reduced materialistic
values, and have a greater appreciation of life.144 Over time, NDErs often become
increasingly concerned about others.145 NDErs also may become progressively more
confident that life has meaning and purpose.146,147,148
People generally don’t make substantial and lasting changes in their lives in
response to unreal experiences such as dreams or hallucinations. They also don’t
ordinarily make considerable life changes after their experiences if they doubt that the
experiences are real. However, near-death experiencers generally accept the reality of
their NDEs and usually respond with significant changes in their lives.
One of the most common near-death experience aftereffects is an increased
belief in an afterlife. Multiple prior studies confirm the frequent increased belief in an
afterlife following NDEs.149,150,151,152,153 This is not surprising, as NDErs typically believe
they personally glimpsed an afterlife.
The most recent version of the NDERF survey explores near-death experience
aftereffects by asking questions about beliefs and values at the time of their NDEs and
when they shared their experiences with NDERF. The responses to these questions are
among the most remarkable in the entire NDERF survey. Over and over, the survey
31
answers show enormous changes in the beliefs and values of the NDErs. There may be
no other single life event in the lives of the NDErs that is associated with such sizeable
and lasting changes in beliefs and values.
The most recent version of the NDERF survey asked 834 NDErs about their
belief in an afterlife before their NDEs and at the time they shared their NDEs. Results
of this survey are:
Before my experience I believed:
n=834 NDErs %
An afterlife definitely exists 204 24.5
An afterlife probably exists 208 24.9
I was uncertain if an afterlife exists 234 28.1
An afterlife probably does not exist 45 5.4
An afterlife does not exist 48 5.8
Unknown 95 11.4
The next question in the NDERF survey asked about belief in an afterlife after
their NDEs:
At the current time I believe:
n=834 NDErs %
An afterlife definitely exists 703 84.3
An afterlife probably exists 62 7.4
I am uncertain if an afterlife exists 45 5.4
An afterlife probably does not exist 4 0.5
An afterlife does not exist 3 0.4
Unknown 17 2.0
These data show a dramatic shift toward increased belief in an afterlife following
near-death experiences. Not every NDEr believes in an afterlife, which is
understandable. Belief in an afterlife is subject to many influences, including firmly held
beliefs before their NDEs. Some NDEs may be brief with little content. Brief NDEs may
not provide sufficiently convincing evidence of an afterlife to the NDErs. Evidence that
more detailed NDEs are associated with an increased belief in an afterlife is available
from the most recent NDERF survey. 63 NDErs had an NDE Scale score of 25 and
higher, which are very detailed NDEs. Remarkably, when they shared their NDEs, all 63
NDErs responded to the survey question mentioned above by selecting the response
“An afterlife definitely exists.” NDE aftereffects, including increased confidence in an
afterlife, are significant evidence for the reality of NDEs and conscious existence after
bodily death.
32
Another common change in belief following near-death experiences is a
decreased fear of death. This should also not be surprising, as NDErs usually know
from their NDEs that there is a wonderful afterlife beyond death’s door. The most recent
version of the NDERF survey asked 834 NDErs about their belief in an afterlife before
their NDEs and at the time they shared their NDEs. Results of this survey are:
Before my experience:
n=834 NDErs %
I greatly feared death 271 32.5
I moderately feared death 248 29.7
I slightly feared death 124 14.9
I did not fear death 109 13.1
Unknown 82 9.8
The next question in the NDERF survey asked about their fear of death following
their NDEs:
At the current time:
n=834 NDErs %
I greatly fear death 23 2.8
I moderately fear death 55 6.6
I slightly fear death 100 12.0
I do not fear death 641 76.9
Unknown 15 1.8
The NDERF study shows a dramatic reduction in fear of death after near-death
experiences. The survey found that 13.1% of NDErs surveyed did not fear death before
their NDEs, and 76.9% did not fear death after their NDEs. This is an extraordinary
increase in the percentage of the survey respondents expressing a lack of fear of death.
The NDERF survey questions regarding changes in belief about an afterlife and fear of
death both show substantial alterations in what NDErs believe following their NDEs. The
NDERF study results are consistent with the concept that most NDErs accept the reality
of their NDEs and often substantially change their beliefs accordingly.
Near-death experiencers usually believe that their NDEs are essential evidence
of an afterlife and change their beliefs about the afterlife accordingly. This fact makes
the NDE aftereffects of increased confidence in an afterlife and decreased fear of death
another significant line of evidence for the reality of NDEs, along with their consistent
message of the survival of consciousness after bodily death.
Near-Death Experience Reality as Determined by Near-Death Experiencers
33
An excellent way to determine if near-death experiences are real is to ask those
who personally had NDEs. The average age of those sharing their NDEs with NDERF is
50.3 years old. Their NDEs happened an average of 22.3 years previously. Thus, most
NDErs had many years or decades of life following their NDEs to determine if their
NDEs were real or unreal. An NDERF survey question from the most recent NDERF
survey asked 834 NDErs, “What do you believe about the reality of your experience at
the current time.” The responses were:
n=834 NDErs %
Experience was definitely real 782 93.8
Experience was probably real 41 4.9
Experience was probably not real 10 1.2
Experience was definitely not real 1 0.1
These remarkable statistics show that virtually all near-death experiencers
surveyed believe their NDEs were definitely real. You can see this for yourself in the
hundreds of narrative responses from NDErs about the reality of their NDEs on the
NDERF website.154 Nearly all NDErs accept their experiences as authentic. What
occurs in NDEs may seem remarkable. However, the consistent message from those
who had NDEs is that NDEs are real.
Skeptics will continue to argue that near-death experiences are hallucinatory or
unreal memories. Out of respect for people’s ability to generally understand reality, if
skeptics want to claim that NDEs are not real, then the skeptics need to present
convincing evidence that NDEs are not real. However, skeptics cannot adequately
explain any of the lines of evidence for the reality of NDE presented in this article.
Skeptics have proposed greater than twenty different and widely varying “explanations”
of NDEs over many decades. If skeptics accepted any of their “explanations” as
plausible, then there would not be so many varied skeptical arguments purporting to
show that NDEs are unreal. When any skeptic attempts to explain away NDEs as unreal
experiences, it is crucial to determine if the proposed skeptical “explanation” adequately
explains all the lines of evidence for the reality of NDE. While it is beyond the scope of
this article to comprehensively review all the arguments proposed by NDE skeptics, the
most significant skeptical arguments are compiled and refuted on the NDERF
website.155
Shared Near-Death Experiences
Shared near-death experiences are defined as occurring when two or more
people have a life-threatening event simultaneously, with at least one person surviving
and the other(s) permanently dying. They are aware of the other(s) during their
experiences and often interact with each other. The surviving person, the NDEr, later
describes the shared NDE. Shared NDEs are important, as they provide one of the
34
most direct lines of evidence that what is described in NDEs is the initial experience of
those who permanently die. Here is an example:
I was in the car taking my girlfriend to her parent’s home in Welland. I fell asleep while
driving. I then realized that we were out of our bodies and flying quickly upward while
holding hands. We flew straight up for about a minute. We then saw a park or
countryside-like landscape. Suddenly, we encountered four creatures. Two flanked
each of us, and they began to separate us gently. They overwhelmed us with a feeling
of the highest love and compassion beyond anything we could experience on earth. We
were feeling a divine love. Therefore, we did not resist their effort. I felt sort of like a
baby in mother's arms, though it's hard to describe accurately. Two of the creatures
moved her upward toward the distant landscape, and two moved me back downward. I
felt so much love, peace, and comfort that I wanted to protest and say, "No, please let
me stay here." But I heard inwardly or psychically that I couldn't stay. Next, I saw my car
in flames, from about a quarter-mile up above. I felt a falling sensation and awakened in
the car. The front was on fire. I moved her from leaning on me, as she was when I fell
asleep, knowing that her body was only an empty shell. I had left her above with the
beings.156
Some shared near-death experiences include awareness of another person
dying geographically far away or without the NDEr knowing that the person they
encountered in their NDE was dying. An example of this is from Jennifer, who had
multiple NDEs over a short time interval due to surgical complications. This shared NDE
is remarkable given that her NDE occurred in Florida, yet she interacted with her uncle
who died unexpectedly at the same time in Pennsylvania:
During the other NDE I had, I was in my late uncle's operating room in Pennsylvania.
My relatives and I did not know that Uncle Bill went into the hospital for elective surgery
to remove some polyps. He wasn't ill, so it should have been an easy routine operation.
I found myself together with him, hovering in the corner of his operating room, watching
his medical team cover his dead body. We didn't speak or look at each other. He was
not wearing glasses as he had in life. I had a shape or form, as did Uncle Bill. We
communicated without speaking or using words. We communicated with a meaning that
conveyed a knowing. I don't know how to express it. We watched them cover his body,
and we then left the room. I understood that I was the only person of my relatives who
was aware of my uncle's passing. After I recovered consciousness, I wondered why
nobody talked about my uncle's death. Why hadn't anyone mentioned it? I then realized
that they were not aware my uncle had died. This was confirmed when I asked what
happened to Uncle Bill, and they didn't know what I was talking about.157
David was seriously injured in a severe auto accident that killed his friend. They
shared an NDE:
It was like looking down through the branches of a tree. I saw a fuzzy and dark image. I
thought, 'What is that?' My friend answered, 'I do not know, what is that?' The images
35
were distorted like the sunlight seen from the bottom of a swimming pool. The dim fuzzy
dark image was illuminated momentarily by brighter lines moving across our field of
view. I said to my friend, 'That is my brother's car.' I saw a police car to the left, and a
group of people behind the police car. To the right was an ambulance and another
police car. My friend said, 'That is us.' At that moment, we both said, 'We are dead.' 158
When shared near-death experiences occur, they may happen with observations
of ongoing earthly events or in an unearthly realm. Lacee was riding with her husband
on a motorcycle. They crashed, and her husband died. Lacee survived with serious
injuries. They shared an NDE in an unearthly realm:
I began to fly through the tunnel, and the first thing I noticed was looking down at the
embankment we had crashed into. I felt the pull to go further becoming ever stronger
until I reached the tunnel where a light appeared. I continued fighting with all my
strength to stop and not go further. Suddenly I was in a field of tall, beautiful, green
grass. The grass undulated in waves, yet there was no wind. Overhead the sky was
pink/rosy/purple. I felt a strong sense of well-being as if I were in a beautiful paradise,
sort of like the Garden of Eden. My husband was walking towards me through the
grass. We looked at each other, and without talking, I understood he had died. I knew
we had to say goodbye at this moment. He let me know that he will be waiting for me,
but I need to care for our boys for now. I was then back on the ground in my body and
feeling overwhelming pain.159
Skeptics may say that near-death experiences may not tell us what happens to
those who have permanently died. But shared NDEs, while uncommon, are significant
evidence that NDEs are describing the actual beginning of a very real afterlife.
Shared near-death experiences suggest that what occurs in NDEs is the initial
journey of the irrevocably deceased. The NDERF website has received more than a
dozen shared NDEs over the years, and they are available for review by anyone.160
These are among the most remarkable of NDEs and provide powerful evidence for the
reality of NDEs and their consistent message of an afterlife.
The Consistent Spiritual Content of Near-Death Experiences
Any investigation finding evidence that consciousness survives bodily death
would be expected to provide insight into what that conscious existence is like after
bodily death. As you will see, the remarkably consistent spiritual content in near-death
experiences provides this insight with a profound message of reassurance and
inspiration for all of humanity.
This section will review the spiritual content of near-death experiences. The word
spiritual means different things to different people. Regarding the spiritual content of
NDEs, the term spiritual will be used consistently with the Webster dictionary definition
of spirit, which is: A supernatural being or essence.161 Consciousness in NDEs is apart
36
from the physical body and may be conceptualized as a supernatural essence. The
Webster dictionary definition of spirit makes no assumptions regarding any religious or
other specific beliefs.
An essential scientific principle is that what is real is consistently observed. In a
previous section we found that when near-death experiencers see ongoing earthly
events while out-of-body, they are generally exceptionally accurate. Given this, it is
reasonable to believe that when NDErs consistently describe their often unearthly
spiritual experiences, they are similarly accurate.
The spiritual content in near-death experiences is often unlike what the NDErs
could have expected based on their pre-existing beliefs. The spiritual content is often
described as unearthly, which further contrasts the spiritual content in their NDEs from
any prior earthly experiences.
When near-death experiencers are in unearthly realms, they often feel
overwhelming sensations of peace and love. Here are examples of the peace that
NDErs experience:
I was more aware of how ridiculous my fears were and how they didn't compare to the
intense peace and love I was feeling at the time.162
Indescribable joy, happiness, and peace.163
Conscious of peace and love on a much higher level than usual.164
We will discuss the love that near-death experiencers encounter in detail later.
For now, you can get a sense of the unearthly love commonly described in NDEs:
I knew the being I met was composed in its very atoms of a substance I can only call
love. That substance created a force or power like electricity is here. Love is the only
word I have. It is not the right word here.165
I knew that love was the greatest force around us and that we are all love. Love is the
only real thing. Hatred, pain, hurt, and all the negative things are not the way it really
is.166
Love was everywhere. It permeated the afterlife. It was incredible.167
I could go on with literally hundreds of quotes like these from near-death
experiences, but you get the picture. The otherworldly love commonly encountered in
NDEs is often powerful, overwhelming, and may be difficult to express in mere words.
One previously published study analyzed hundreds of NDEs posted on the NDERF
website to find the most common words used to describe the phenomenology of their
experiences.168 The two most common words were light and love.
Another common spiritual message from near-death experiences is that every
one of us is united in the afterlife. This also will be discussed later in more detail. I will
let the NDErs themselves introduce this important spiritual aspect of NDEs:
37
We are each pieces of a greater whole, as I understand it. Getting back where we can
all be together again is the ultimate "going home."169
I felt a universal connection or unity, but it didn't seem mystical at the time. It just felt like
this IS how it is. In retrospect, it appears mysterious or unearthly, but at the time it was
apparent that everything is interconnected, and it was plain and simple.170
I was aware of a oneness, a connection with God and all the other souls, and
individuality.171
I felt like a single atom as a single point of energy, surrounded by other energy. We
were all connected; we were all infinite. I felt like I belonged. I felt at peace.172
Many near-death experiencers find themselves in realms vastly different from
anything they knew from their earthly lives. It is rare for NDErs to encounter realms that
are frightening or hellish. These unusual NDEs are sufficiently rare that they are outside
the scope of this article but are discussed on the NDERF website.173
Unearthly realms in near-death experiences may be analogous to earth but
enormously more beautiful. NDErs may encounter mountains, forests, streams, lakes,
and dwellings which they often describe as distinctly unearthly in appearance due to
their exceptional beauty, brightness, or scale. Wendy shares an example of this
otherworldly beauty. During surgery, her heart stopped. CPR was started, and she had
an NDE:
I came through the light and knew everyone there. They were delighted to see me and
welcomed me home. All of them were dead relatives that I never met before, yet I knew
everyone. They appeared in human form to allow me to recognize them. However, I
sensed that was not their real form now. I was connected with everyone and had an
almost a collective consciousness, though I cannot describe it. I feel so many emotions
as I recall this. It felt like a blanket of love was wrapped around me when I came
through the light before I saw everyone. There is no feeling here that can express the
love or feelings I felt there. Everything was "pure", such as the brightest blues, greens,
reds, yellows, whites, purples etc. It was like removing a filter so that I could now see
the purity of everything.
I went to the right where I saw what I believe was God, who was pure energy. Yet you
knew who it was and the great wisdom within. God spoke to me, stating that the
message for me to bring back was love. We all have to live in love.
The next thing I saw was a meadow in the mountains of indescribable beauty. The sky
was the bluest blue, and the grass was the greenest green. All colors here are
extremely pale compared to there. I saw my grandmother with children running towards
me. She took me by the hand, and we were on the beginning of a bridge over a small
creek. I had just turned nine when she died. We talked for seemingly hours about my
life since she died. We also talked about when she came to let me know that she died,
38
say goodbye until we would meet again, and not be sad. She died of a brain tumor, yet
now she was vibrant and healthy. I told her how much I missed her, and she said that
she watches over my son and me. She then said something unexpected: She said I had
to go back and it was not my time yet.174
The most recent version of the NDERF survey has many questions designed to
investigate the spiritual content of near-death experiences. What follows are the results
from the largest study of the spiritual content of NDEs ever reported.
As mentioned earlier, love is the second most common word used by near-death
experiencers to describe the phenomenology of their NDEs. The concept of love may
be the most important spiritual concept in NDEs. To further understand love in NDEs,
the most recent NDERF survey asked, “During your experience, did you encounter any
specific information / awareness regarding love?” The question emphasized that this
was information or awareness regarding love specifically encountered during their NDE,
and not at any other time in their life. Here are the results:
n=834 NDErs %
Yes 476 57.1
Uncertain 68 8.2
No 290 34.8
This is a remarkably high percentage of “Yes” responses. To put this in
perspective, a much higher percentage of NDErs answered “Yes” to this question than
to survey questions regarding other well-known characteristics of NDEs such as
experiencing a tunnel, a life review, and encountering deceased loved ones. The
NDERF survey question regarding love requested a narrative response by asking, “If
yes or uncertain, describe in as much detail as possible.” The narrative answers to this
question described the love encountered in NDEs as immense, all-encompassing, and
universal. As you read these quotes from NDErs about love, you can feel the passion in
their words:
There was nothing that was not love. This love is not what we know on earth. It has
nothing to do with feelings. It is like transitioning from being unable to breathe to where
everything is air. It is the essence of everything and what we are. I would not call it love,
bliss, peace, or oneness. It is an indescribable sense of belonging to everything, being
everything, and being home.175
I was surrounded by unconditional and never-ending love. It was the origin, a fabric of
all that everything is made of. It totally enveloped me and held me.176
It is all and only about LOVE. We come here to love ourselves as a part of God. We
also come here to love everyone.177
Near-death experiencers often describe the love in their NDEs as a part of
everything, as if love really does connect everyone and everything. NDErs routinely
39
express the love they encountered as all-encompassing and beyond any love they
could have possibly known in their earthly lives. In NDEs, this universal, enveloping,
and extraordinary love is consistently described. This regularly described unworldly love
in NDEs exemplifies the remarkable consistency of spiritual content in NDEs. Here are
more examples of love described in NDEs:
Love and overcoming the fear of death is what it's all about. There is no death.178
Light, love, and God are the same. Accessible and free.179
I became aware of the totality of unconditional love and that it was endless there. Love
did not have to be earned, as it was already offered to all who would accept it.180
We are love, peace, and all that is on the other side. That is what our soul is made of,
and that is what we should be sharing.181
Many near-death experiencers emphasized that the love they encountered was
beyond human language:
The human word "love" can't begin to address true love.182
Love wasn't a stand-alone and clearly defined item. It was part of everything else. It was
pervasive.183
The love I felt was indescribable. No words can describe how profound it was.184
For near-death experiencers discovering such all-encompassing spiritual love,
this awareness can be life-changing. NDErs often become more loving and
compassionate following their NDEs. Throughout history and around the world there
have always been substantially different views of what love is. This makes it all the
more remarkable that love in NDEs is described so consistently.
Near-death experiencers often describe an awareness or encounter with God.
When God is encountered in NDEs, the most common word used to describe the
appearance of God is light.185 NDErs often point out that God is an earthly word that
does not do justice to the transcendent God they encountered. NDErs express this
concept when they say:
The words we use in this world cannot be translated to the words in the world of God.186
My church is inside of me. God is a part of me and my experience. God is just a small
word compared to what I experienced.187
When near-death experiencers encounter God, they are generally in an
otherworldly realm. Thus, it is not surprising that God may appear variably to different
NDErs:
I thought that if I were a Buddhist, perhaps he would look like Buddha. I was told, 'That
is right. God appears in a familiar form.’188
40
I was also told that no one can 'see' God. At the very end of the experience, I was
shown an image of God that I understood to be God. I was aware that it was a custom
image made for me in a way I would understand.189
The most recent version of the NDERF survey asks, “During your experience, did
you encounter any specific information / awareness that God or a supreme being either
does (or does not) exist?” As with the question regarding love in near-death
experiences, the question emphasized that this was information/awareness of God or a
supreme being from their NDEs only. The results are:
n=834 NDErs %
Yes 400 48.0
Uncertain 107 12.8
No 327 39.2
The “or does not” part of the survey question was added to see if any significant
percentage of near-death experiencers encountered information that God does not
exist. Following this question, the next survey question asked, “If yes or uncertain,
describe in as much detail as possible.” In reviewing the narrative responses, virtually
all NDErs responding affirmatively to the question had encountered information that
God does exist during their NDEs. The NDERF survey found that an impressively high
percentage of NDErs described encountering or becoming aware of God during their
NDEs. The narrative responses to this question allowed a better understanding of God
as described in NDEs. Hundreds of NDErs describe encountering God in the NDERF
website supplementary material.190
Given that nearly half of all near-death experiencers in the NDERF survey
encountered or were aware of God, it would be expected that many NDErs would
increasingly believe in God after their NDEs. That is exactly what the NDERF survey
found. 834 NDErs were asked about their belief in God before their NDEs, and at the
time they shared their NDEs. Results of this survey are:
Before my experience I believed:
n=834 NDErs %
God definitely exists 311 37.3
God probably exists 193 23.1
I was uncertain if God exists 162 19.4
God probably does not exist 44 5.3
God does not exist 44 5.3
Unknown 80 9.6
The next question in the NDERF survey asked about belief in God after their
near-death experiences:
41
At the current time I believe:
n=834 NDErs %
God definitely exists 598 71.7
God probably exists 69 8.3
I am uncertain if God exists 61 7.3
God probably does not exist 20 2.4
God does not exist 31 3.7
Unknown 55 6.6
The increased acceptance of the reality of God following near-death experiences
is remarkable. From the survey, belief that God definitely exists rose from 37.3% before
their NDEs to 71.7% after their NDEs. This is entirely consistent with the frequent
awareness of God in NDEs. This extraordinary increased belief in God further shows
that NDErs generally accept the reality of their experiences and change their beliefs in
response to their NDEs.
A small prospective study of near-death experiencers found they were
statistically much more likely to have an inner sense of God’s presence in comparison
to a control group that did not have NDEs.191 Retrospective studies have also shown
that NDErs have an increased belief in God, or become closer to God.192,193 An
increased closeness to God after NDEs was the conclusion in a scholarly book chapter I
co-authored that reviewed 30 years of previously published literature regarding NDEs:
For most, the result appears to be spiritual awakening. The NDE often brings with it
spiritual certainty and an intense desire to conform one’s life to divine will. The new
relationship with what is often a personal God becomes central to the NDErs’ lives.194
The NDERF study of God in near-death experiences found that the most
common descriptor of God was love.195 Love in NDEs has already been discussed, but
the awareness of love seems especially strong when God is encountered. Here are
examples of what NDErs said about God’s love:
The light and the presence of the entity was clearly God. It was present everywhere and
a part of everything. There were no limits to the power of God. There was unconditional
acceptance, forgiveness, and love.196
The entire encounter was about God, the ultimate power of God, and God's forgiveness.
The message was, "Love is the greatest power in the universe."197
God does exist. I was aware that God is not a man or woman. God is everything as
pure love energy. We are God because we are one entity.198
I could go on with vast numbers of quotes like these describing the powerful and
unearthly love of God. A profound and reassuring message from near-death
experiences is that God loves everyone.
42
While talking about God in near-death experiences, it is noteworthy that NDErs
may become aware that there is no preferred religion. Jean learned this when her heart
stopped four times as she battled for her life with toxic shock syndrome. In her NDE she
asked a spiritual being directly about religion:
I found myself in a city and was told this was the City of God. I was at a water fountain
along with a man dressed in a long white linen robe that was tied around his waist with
a cord. He told me that I could ask any question. My first question was, 'What is the right
religion?' He said, 'They all are. Each religion is a pathway trying to reach the same
place.' I was shown a mountain, with each religious group trying to reach the top. A
distance separated the religious groups, but all were trying to get to the same place.199
Another important spiritual concept in near-death experiences is an absence of
judgment. We previously discussed that judgment by other beings almost never
happens during life reviews. The lack of judgment is a strong and consistent theme
throughout NDEs. Typical comments about this from NDErs are:
It's not God as classically defined in religious texts. It's more a supreme energy that set
everything in motion. There are no judgments cast. It's a force of pure love and
acceptance.200
God was with me. I felt Him clearly and so deeply - He was holding me in His arms. His
love was in every fiber of my being and every cell of my body. God was in front of me,
behind me, beside me, and all around me. All I felt was His total acceptance of me with
absolutely no judgment. He is all love; entirely love, and He showered that love on me
and through me. I felt complete and whole for the first time in my entire existence. My
life review seemed to happen on its own. The life review was over in the blink of an eye.
I learned that we judge ourselves; God does not judge us.201
Near-death experiencers consistently describe a connection and unity with God.
This may be surprising to many, as this notion of God is usually not emphasized in
traditional Western religions. The dictionary definition of love indicates that attachment
is a defining characteristic of love.202 It makes sense that God’s exceptional love would
manifest as an exceptional attachment. God’s overwhelming love for all of us likely
contributes to the unity and oneness with God so commonly expressed in NDEs:
I felt what we know as 'God' was a very alive and dynamic living force that flowed
through our hearts and connected the greater universe and all of us.203
We are God. Our spirits are one. We are all parts of the whole.204
I now know that unconditional love and acceptance are mine. I was enlightened as to
the universe and the oneness of us all. I was not aware of this possibility until my
experience. Now I know the universe is one, and we all make up the supreme being.205
I was surrounded by God. The light is love. The light is God. We are all connected. We
are all one.206
43
The most recent version of the NDERF survey explored the idea of unity and
oneness in near-death experiences in general. A survey question asked, “During your
experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that a mystical
universal connection or unity/oneness either does (or does not) exist?” The survey
question emphasized that it was asking about awareness of a mystical universal
connection or unity/oneness occurring only during their NDE. 834 NDErs responded
with these results:
n=834 NDErs %
Yes 393 47.1
Uncertain 88 10.6
No 353 42.3
As with the NDERF survey question regarding God, the “or does not” part of the
question was added to see if any significant percentage of NDErs encountered
information that a mystical universal connection/unity/oneness does not exist. A
narrative response to this question followed. As with the NDERF survey question about
God, virtually all NDErs responding affirmatively indicated that they encountered
information that a mystical universal connection/unity/oneness really does exist. Here
are examples of the unity encountered in NDEs:
I felt at one with all existence, and it was indescribably beautiful.207
I felt entirely at one with the universe, like a great light free from all suffering had
absorbed me. This light was peace, understanding, acceptance, and complete
tranquility. I describe coming back to life as being 'ripped back from the oneness.’208
It was evident that EVERYTHING, not just EVERYONE, is related somehow and that
everything is necessarily part of the whole.209
There is only one God, and we are all part of that great soul. In all of God's realms, or in
the small corner called the physical universe, there is nothing but God.210
I felt a connection, a unity or oneness that we are all connected through God.211
The unity of everyone and everything is consistently described in near-death
experiences. Hundreds of examples of this unity are available on the NDERF website
as supplementary material.212 The unity described in NDEs transcends the physical
material world and seems to encompass and transcend our earthly consciousness. The
remarkably high percentage of NDErs encountering this sense of unity is, in my opinion,
among the most important spiritual insights from NDEs.
The consistency of multiple spiritual concepts in near-death experiences
converges on the understanding the afterlife is a reality and idyllic in every sense of the
word. Evidence from NDEs shows that we are all part of something much greater than
44
ourselves. The vital message from NDEs is that love, unity, and God are central aspects
of the afterlife. An unimaginably glorious afterlife is the destiny for all of humanity.
Conclusion
Twelve lines of evidence for the reality of survival of human consciousness after
death have been presented in this article. This evidence consistently demonstrates that
near-death experiences are medically inexplicable and cannot be explained by physical
brain function.
The evidence presented would be extraordinary even if near-death experiencers
were fully awake when they had their experiences. But they’re not. NDEs happen at a
time of unconsciousness or clinical death with an absent heartbeat. Conscious and lucid
experiences while unconscious should not occur. Yet NDEs do occur and are packed
with multiple lines of evidence consistently pointing to an afterlife. To review, these are
the twelve lines of evidence presented in this article for the reality of NDEs and an
afterlife:
1. Consciousness and alertness during near-death experiences is usually greater than
during their everyday life. This is medically inexplicable given that NDEs occur when
they are unconscious or clinically dead.
2. What near-death experiencers see and hear while they are out-of-body during near-
death experiences is almost always completely accurate. Out-of-body observations far
from their physical body are also nearly always totally realistic. Nearly all out-of-body
observations are confirmed to be accurate when later checked by the NDErs or others.
3. Supernormal sensory awareness is consistently described in near-death
experiences. Normal or supernormal vision may occur in those born totally blind and in
those with severe vision impairment.
4. Typical near-death experiences occur while under general anesthesia at a time that
conscious and lucid experiences should not be possible.
5. When deceased loved ones are encountered in near-death experiences, they are
virtually always deceased at the time of the NDEs and almost always appear in perfect
health.
6. The core content of near-death experiences from all around the world is remarkably
consistent. NDEs from non-Western countries are remarkably similar to Western NDEs.
7. The core content of near-death experiences in children, including very young
children, are strikingly similar to the NDEs of older children and adults.
8. Life reviews in near-death experiences typically have an unearthly acceleration of
consciousness. They include real events that previously occurred in the NDErs’ lives,
even if the events were long forgotten.
45
9. Near-death experiencers commonly have substantial changes in their beliefs and
values as aftereffects following their NDEs. NDErs usually develop a greatly increased
belief in an afterlife and decreased fear of death.
10. Near-death experiencers generally accept the reality of their NDEs. The NDERF
survey found that 93.8% of NDErs believed that their experiences were definitely real.
11. Shared near-death experiences occur when two or more people have a life-
threatening event simultaneously, with at least one person surviving and the other(s)
permanently dying. The surviving NDEr later describes a shared experience with the
permanently deceased person(s). This is significant evidence that what is described in
NDEs is the initial journey of the irrevocably deceased into the afterlife.
12. The remarkably consistent spiritual content of near-death experiences is further
evidence for the reality of NDEs. In describing the profoundly blissful afterlife, NDErs
are consistently aware of the vital importance of love, the reality of God that transcends
human understanding, and the unity of all of us.
The strength of this evidence convinces me that near-death experiences are real
and there absolutely is an afterlife. I encourage each reader to consider the evidence for
the reality of NDEs and the afterlife and reach your own conclusion. The convergence of
multiple lines of evidence for the validity of NDE and an afterlife presented in this article
builds a far stronger case than from only a single line of evidence. To illustrate this,
suppose there existed only two lines of evidence for the reality of an afterlife. Neither
line of evidence may be 100 percent convincing, but assume each line of evidence is
individually 90 percent convincing. When combined, the two lines of evidence are
mathematically calculated to be 99 percent convincing of the reality of an afterlife.213
Given the complexity of mathematically analyzing just two lines of evidence, it would be
far more difficult to mathematically analyze all twelve lines of evidence presented in this
article. Fortunately, the NDERF website has a custom-designed form that automatically
performs this mathematical analysis for you (www.nderf.org/afterlife). This form allows
you to calculate how strongly you believe that an afterlife is proven by the twelve lines of
evidence in this article. This form also shows you the results of all others who
completed the form.
The NDERF studies presented throughout this article are the most extensive
scientific investigation of near-death experiences ever reported. These investigations
provide new and exceptional scientific evidence for the reality of NDEs and the afterlife.
Most of the lines of evidence presented in this article are corroborated by the findings of
prior scholarly near-death experience studies spanning over forty-five years. These
previous investigations reinforce the remarkable results from the NDERF studies. I
believe the evidence is now so strong that the survival of human consciousness after
death is proven beyond a reasonable doubt.
There is still much that we can learn from the scientific study of near-death
experiences. Further scholarly investigation of NDEs and other experiences that
46
suggest the survival of consciousness after bodily death is strongly encouraged.
Skeptic arguments cannot explain the remarkable consistency of the content of
near-death experiences. Physical brain function cannot explain NDEs. An essential part
of convincing the world that NDEs and their evidence of an afterlife is real is to address
the skeptical arguments. To accomplish this, a section of the NDERF website explores
skeptical views in depth.214 Those interested in particular skeptical arguments not
addressed in this article will likely find them discussed and refuted in this NDERF
website section.
Near-death experiences have profound implications for science. NDEs
conclusively show that human experiences suggesting an afterlife can and should be
scientifically investigated. NDEs provide compelling evidence that there is far more to
consciousness than is explained by our physical brain.
Near-death experiences also have important implications for religion. The great
religions have always addressed a belief in an afterlife and God. The evidence from
NDEs offers compelling evidence for the reality of an afterlife. Additionally, NDEs
consistently point to a universe imbued with a vast and loving intelligence.
NDEs show that death is not the end but rather a transition to a magnificent
afterlife. This is a profoundly inspirational message for us, our loved ones, and all of
humanity.
References
1 Moody R. Life After Life. Atlanta: Mockingbird Books; 1975.
2 Holden J, Greyson B, James D. The Field of Near-Death Studies: Past, Present, and Future. In: Holden
J, Greyson B, James D, eds. The Handbook of Near-Death Experiences: Thirty Years of Investigation.
Westport CT: Praeger Publishers; 2009;7.
3 Parnia, S. Understanding the Cognitive Experience of Death and the Near-Death Experience. QJM: An
International Journal of Medicine, 2017;(2)67–69.
4 near-death experience. In: Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, https://www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/near-death%20experience.
5 unconscious. In: Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, https://www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/unconscious.
6 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010; 8-17. There is some variability in what NDE researchers consider the elements of a
near-death experience to be. The twelve elements presented here were consistently observed in the
NDERF studies.
7 Long J, Perry P. God and the Afterlife: The Groundbreaking New Evidence for God and Near-Death
Experience. New York: HarperCollins; 2016;11.
8 Gallup G, Proctor W. Adventures in Immortality: A Look Beyond the Threshold of Death. New York:
McGraw-Hill; 1982.
9 Perera M, Padmasekara G, Belanti J. Prevalence of Near-Death Experiences in Australia. Journal of
Near-Death Studies. 2005;24(2):109-116.
10 Knoblauch H, Schmied I, Schnettler B. Different Kinds of Near-Death Experience: A Report on a
Survey of Near-Death Experiences in Germany. Journal of Near-Death Studies. 2001;20(1):15-29.
47
11 Greyson B. The Near-Death Experience Scale: Construction, Reliability and Validity. The Journal of
Nervous and Mental Disease. 1983;171(6):369–375.
12 Long J. Near-Death Experiences: Evidence for Their Reality. Missouri Medicine. 2014;111(5):373.
13 Weigold A, Weigold IK, Russell EJ. Examination of the Equivalence of Self-Report Survey-Based
Paper-and-Pencil and Internet Data Collection Methods. Psychological Methods. 2013;18(1):53-70.
14 De Beuckelaer A, Lievens F. Measurement Equivalence of Paper-and-Pencil and Internet
Organisational Surveys: A Large Scale Examination in 16 Countries. Applied Psychology: An
International Review. 2009;58(2):336-361.
15 Gordon JS, McNew R. Developing the Online Survey. Nursing Clinics of North America.
2008;43(4):605-19, vii.
16 Mauz E, Hoffmann R, Houben R, et al. Mode Equivalence of Health Indicators Between Data Collection
Modes and Mixed-Mode Survey Designs in Population-Based Health Interview Surveys for Children and
Adolescents: Methodological Study. Journal of Medical Internet Research. 2018;20(3):e64.
17 Cronk B, West JL. Personality Research on the Internet: A Comparison of Web-Based and Traditional
Instruments in Take-Home and In-Class Settings. Behavior Research Methods, Instruments, and
Computers. 2002;34(2):177–180.
18 Birnbaum MH. Human Research and Data Collection Via the Internet. Annual Review of Psychology.
2004;55(1): 803–832.
19 Research Results Comparison Between Paper and Pencil and Online Surveys.
www.nderf.org/Hub/online_surveys.htm
20 NDERF Study Methodology: Additional Comments. www.nderf.org/Hub/hmethodology2.htm.
21 Near-death experiences due to cardiac arrest have been reported in dozens of previously published
studies. Over one hundred NDEs occurring as a result of cardiac arrest have been reported in these five
studies alone. Sabom M, Recollections of Death: A Medical Investigation. New York: Simon & Schuster;
1982; van Lommel P, van Wees R, Meyers V, Elfferich I. Near-Death Experience in Survivors of Cardiac
Arrest: A Prospective Study in the Netherlands. Lancet 2001;358:2039–45; Parnia S, Waller G, Yeates R,
Fenwick PA. Qualitative and Quantitative Study of the Incidence, Features and Aetiology of Near Death
Experiences in Cardiac Arrest Survivors. Resuscitation 2001;48:149–56; Schwaninger J, Eisenberg PR,
Schechtman KB, Weiss AN. A Prospective Analysis of Near-Death Experiences in Cardiac Arrest
Patients. Journal of Near-Death Studies. 2002;20: 215-232; Greyson B. Incidence and Correlates of
Near-Death Experiences in a Cardiac Care Unit. General Hospital Psychiatry 2003;25:269-276.
22 After cardiac arrest, decreased blood flow to the brain causes EEG changes in about six seconds. The
EEG flatlines in ten to twenty seconds. See DeVries JW, Bakker PFA, Visser GH, Diephuis JC, van
Huffelen AC. Changes in Cerebral Oxygen Uptake and Cerebral Electrical Activity During Defibrillation
Threshold Testing. Anesthesiology and Analgesia.1998;87(1):16-20.
23 Aminoff MJ, Scheinman MM, Griffin JC, Herre JM. Electrocerebral Accompaniments of Syncope
Associated with Malignant Ventricular Arrhythmias. Annals of Internal Medicine.1988;108(6):791-796.
24 van Lommel P, van Wees R, Meyers V, Elfferich I. Near-Death Experience in Survivors of Cardiac
Arrest: A Prospective Study in the Netherlands. Lancet. 2001;358:2039–2045.
25 Parnia S, Fenwick P. Near Death Experiences in Cardiac Arrest: Visions of a Dying Brain or Visions of
a New Science of Consciousness. Resuscitation. 2002;52(1):5-11.
26 Near-Death Experiences from Cardiac Arrest. www.nderf.org/Hub/hcardiacarrest.htm. This page
contains over 100 near-death experiences that occurred at the time of a cardiac arrest.
27 Joan LH NDE. 6896. www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joan_lh_nde.html.
28 Yazmine S NDE. 6992 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yazmine_s_nde.html.
29 Sheila EP NDE. 6267 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sheila_ep_nde.html.
30 Karen J NDE. 6150 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_j_nde.html.
31 Gary M NDE. 6282 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gary_m_nde.html.
32 Jackie F NDE. 6485 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jackie_f_nde.html.
33 Kathleen A NDE. 6581 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathleen_a_nde.html.
34 Gary NDE. 6667 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1gary_nde.html.
35 Carol M NDE. 6496 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carol_m_nde_6496.html.
36 Liam O NDE. 6674 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1liam_o_nde.html.
48
37 Here are two illustrative studies demonstrating enhanced mental functioning during NDEs: Owens JE,
Cook EW, Stevenson I. Features of ‘Near-Death Experience’ in Relation to Whether or Not Patients Were
Near Death. Lancet. 1990;336:1175-1177; Kelly EW, Greyson B, Kelly EF. Unusual Experiences Near
Death and Related Phenomena. In: Kelly EF, Kelly EW, Crabtree A, Gauld A, Grosso M, Greyson B.
Irreducible Mind: Toward a Psychology for the 21st Century. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield; 2007;
367–421, quote on 386.
38 Greyson B, Kelly EW, Kelly EF. Explanatory Models for Near-Death Experiences. In: Holden J,
Greyson B, James D, eds. The Handbook of Near-Death Experiences: Thirty Years of Investigation.
Westport CT: Praeger Publishers; 2009;229.
39 Susan M NDE. 7887 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1susan_m_nde.html.
40 Sabom M. Recollections of Death: A Medical Investigation. New York: Simon & Schuster; 1982.
41 Sartori P. A Prospective Study of NDEs in an Intensive Therapy Unit. Christian Parapsychologist
2004;16(2):34–40. Results of this study were later presented in further detail: Sartori P, The Near-Death
Experiences of Hospitalized Intensive Care Patients: A Five Year Clinical Study. Lewiston, NY: Edwin
Mellen Press; 2008.
42 See, for example: Parnia S, Fenwick P, Spearpoint K, Devos G et al. AWAreness during REsuscitation
(AWARE). Resuscitation. 2014;85:1799-1805; Lim C, Alexander MP, LaFleche G, Schnyer DM, Verfaellie
M. The Neurological and Cognitive Sequelae of Cardiac Arrest. Neurology. 2004;63:1774-1778;
Arumugam S, El-Menyar A, Al-Hassani A, Strandvik G. et al. Delirium in the Intensive Care Unit. Journal
of Emergencies, Trauma, and Shock. 2017;10:37-46; Schiff N. Recovery of Consciousness after Brain
Injury: A Mesocircuit Hypothesis. Trends in Neurosciences. 2010;33:1-9.
43 Holden J. Veridical Perception in Near-Death Experiences. In: Holden J, Greyson B, James D, eds.
The Handbook of Near-Death Experiences: Thirty Years of Investigation. Westport CT: Praeger
Publishers; 2009;185-211.
44 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;74-78.
45 Long J. Near-Death Experiences: Evidence for Their Reality. Missouri Medicine. 2014;111(5):374.
46 There are multiple previously published reports of NDErs observing earthly events far from their bodies
and beyond possible physical sensory awareness. Here are two studies containing fifteen NDEs with
corroboration of the NDErs’ remote observations by others: Cook EW, Greyson B, Stevenson I. Do Any
Near-Death Experiences Provide Evidence for the Survival of Human Personality After Death? Relevant
Features and Illustrative Case Reports. Journal of Scientific Exploration 1998;12:377-406; Kelly EW,
Greyson B, Stevenson I. Can Experiences Near Death Furnish Evidence of Life After Death? Omega
1999-2000;40(4):513–519.
47 NDERF has received scores of NDEs with OBE observations containing highly unexpected
observations later confirmed as having really occurred. An illustrative example was an NDE with an OBE
in which the patient described the cardiac surgeon “flapping his arms as if trying to fly.” The surgeon later
verified this, stating that after scrubbing in he flattened his hands on his chest and was rapidly pointing
with his elbows to give instructions. See: Cook EW, Greyson B, Stevenson I. Do any near-death
experiences provide evidence for the survival of human personality after death? Relevant features and
illustrative case reports. Journal of Scientific Exploration. 1998;12:399-400.
48 Kate L NDE. 7525 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kate_l_nde.html.
49 Holden, JM. Unexpected Findings in a Study of Visual Perception During the Naturalistic Near-Death
Out-of Body Experience. Journal of Near-Death Studies. 1989;7(3):155-163.
50 Holden JM, Joesten L. Near-Death Veridicality Research in the Hospital Setting: Problems and
Promise. Journal of Near-Death Studies. 1990;9(1):45-54.
51 Parnia S, Waller DG, Yeates R, Fenwick P. A Qualitative and Quantitative Study of the Incidence,
Features and Aetiology of Near-Death Experiences in Cardiac Arrest Survivors. Resuscitation.
2001;48(2):149-156.
52 Sartori P, Badham P, Fenwick P. A Prospectively Studied Near-Death Experience with Corroborated
Out-of-Body Perceptions and Unexplained Healing. Journal of Near-Death Studies. 2006;25(2):69-84.
53 Sartori P. The Near-Death Experiences of Hospitalized Intensive Care Patients: A Five-Year Clinical
Study. New York and Lampeter: Edwin Mellen Press; 2008.
49
54 Parnia S, Fenwick P, Spearpoint K, Devos G et al. AWAreness during REsuscitation (AWARE).
Resuscitation. 85:1799-1805.
55 Examples of Near-Death Experiences with Verified OBE Observations.
https://www.nderf.org/Hub/verifiedOBE.htm.
56 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;82.
57 Ring K, Cooper S. Near-Death and Out-of-Body Experiences in the Blind: A Study of Apparent Eyeless
Vision. Journal of Near-Death Studies. 1998;16(2):101-147. Results of this study were later presented in
further detail: Ring K, Cooper S, Mindsight: Near-Death and Out-of-Body Experiences in the Blind. Palo
Alto: William James Center for Consciousness Studies. Institute of Transpersonal Psychology; 1999.
58 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;83-85.
59 Ring K, Cooper S, Mindsight: Near-Death and Out-of-Body Experiences in the Blind. Palo Alto: William
James Center for Consciousness Studies. Institute of Transpersonal Psychology; 1999;25.
60 Ring K, Cooper S, Mindsight: Near-Death and Out-of-Body Experiences in the Blind. Palo Alto: William
James Center for Consciousness Studies. Institute of Transpersonal Psychology; 1999;46-47.
61 Ring K, Cooper S, Mindsight: Near-Death and Out-of-Body Experiences in the Blind. Palo Alto: William
James Center for Consciousness Studies. Institute of Transpersonal Psychology; 1999;41-42.
62 Alan S NDE 7581/9022 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alan_s_nde.html.
63 Victor Phillip DP NDE 8417 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1victor_philip_dp_nde.html.
64 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;89.
65 Long J. Near-Death Experiences: Evidence for Their Reality. Missouri Medicine. 2014;111(5):374-375.
66 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;83-92.
67 Karen R NDE. 5254 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_r_nde.html.
68 Nicholas P NDE. 2319 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1nicholas_p_nde.html.
69 Kristin D NDE. 2628 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kristin_d_nde.html.
70 Vision - On earth and on the other side. www.nderf.org/Hub/vision.htm.
71 Martin J NDE. 6813 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1martin_j_nde.html.
72 Bobby R NDE 8010 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bobby_r_nde.html.
73 Long J. Near-Death Experiences: Evidence for Their Reality. Missouri Medicine. 2014;111(5):376.
74 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;125.
75 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;125. See also: Brian T NDE 2538 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_t_nde.html.
76 Mayumi T NDE. 6474 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mayumi_t_nde.html.
77 Erica P NDE. 7750 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1erica_p_nde.html.
78 Odell H NDE. 6339/5003 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1odell_h_nde.html.
79 Greyson B. The Near-Death Experience Scale: Construction, Reliability and Validity. The Journal of
Nervous and Mental Disease. 1983;171(6):369-375.
80 Martial C, Simon J, Puttaert N, Gosseries O et al. The Near-Death Experience Content (NDE-C) Scale:
Development and Psychometric Validation. Consciousness and Cognition. 2020;86:103049.
81 A New Scale to Assess Near-death Experiences – Commentary. https://iands.org/1505-a-new-scale-to-
assess-near-death-experiences-commentary.html.
82 Greyson B. Consistency of Near-Death Experience Accounts over Two Decades: Are Reports
Embellished over Time? Resuscitation. 2007;73(3):407–411.
83 van Lommel P, van Wees R, Meyers V, Elfferich I. Near-Death Experience in Survivors of Cardiac
Arrest: A Prospective Study in the Netherlands. Lancet. 2001;358:2039–2045.
84 general anesthesia. In: Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, Merriam-Webster, https://www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/general%20anesthesia.
85 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;98-99.
86 Long J. Near-Death Experiences: Evidence for Their Reality. Missouri Medicine. 2014;111(5):375-376.
50
87 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;93-105.
88 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;101.
89 Greyson B, Kelly EW, Kelly EF. Explanatory Models for Near-Death Experiences. In: Holden JM,
Greyson B, James D, eds. The Handbook of Near-Death Experiences: Thirty Years of Investigation.
Westport CT: Praeger Publishers; 2009;226.
90 Wilson SL, Vaughan RW, Stephen CR. Awareness, Dreams, and Hallucinations Associated with
General Anesthesia. Anesthesia and Analgesia. 1975;54(5):609-616.
91 Full or partial awakening under general anesthesia probably occurs in about 1 to 3 in 1,000 cases:
Heier T, Steen P. Awareness in Anaesthesia: Incidence, Consequences and Prevention. Acta
Anaesthesiologica Scandinavica. 1996;40:1073-1086; Sandin RH, Enlund G, Samuelsson P,
Lennmarken C. Awareness During Anaesthesia: A Prospective Case Study. Lancet. 2000;355:707-711.
92 Near-Death Experiences Occurring While Under General Anesthesia.
www.nderf.org/Hub/anesthesia.htm.
93 Kelly EW. Near-Death Experiences with Reports of Meeting Deceased People. Death Studies.
2001;25:229-249.
94 Long J. Near-Death Experiences: Evidence for Their Reality. Missouri Medicine. 2014;111(5):376-377.
95 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;123-124.
96 Many NDEs shared with NDERF describe encounters with beings that seem familiar but that she or he
does not recognize. The NDErs may later discover the beings they encountered were deceased family
members, often when looking at old family pictures after their NDEs. This has been described by other
NDE researchers: van Lommel P, About the Continuity of Our Consciousness. In: Machado C, Shewmon
DA, eds. Brain Death and Disorders of Consciousness. New York: Springer; 2004:115–132; Kelly EF,
Kelly EW, Crabtree A, Gauld A, Grosso M, Greyson B. Irreducible Mind: Toward a Psychology for the
21st Century. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield; 2007:391.
97 Kübler-Ross E. On Children and Death. New York: Macmillan; 1983:208-209.
98 Greyson B. Seeing Dead People Not Known to Have Died: ‘Peak in Darien’ Experiences. Anthropology
and Humanism. 2010;35(2):159–171.
99 Greyson B. Seeing Dead People Not Known to Have Died: ‘Peak in Darien’ Experiences. Anthropology
and Humanism. 2010;35(2):169.
100 Examples of Near-Death Experiences Describing Encounters with Deceased People Not Previously
Known. www.nderf.org/Hub/deceased.htm. This page contains five near-death experiences describing
encounters with deceased people not previously known. This is a small illustrative sampling, and not
intended to be a comprehensive listing of such NDEs posted on NDERF.
101 A Child NDE. 8 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1child_nde.html.
102 Jessica B NDE. 3276 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jessica_b_nde_3276.html.
103 James C NDE. 4460 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1james_c_nde_4460.html.
104 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;154-155.
105 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;155.
106 The important distinction between Western and non-Western countries relevant to the study of NDEs
is presented here: Holden J, Long J, MacLurg J. Characteristics of Western Near-Death Experiencers. In:
Holden J, Greyson B, James D, eds. The Handbook of Near-Death Experiences: Thirty Years of
Investigation. Westport CT: Praeger Publishers; 2009;110.
107 Kellehear A. Census of Non-Western Near-Death Experiences to 2005: Observations and Critical
Reflections. In: Holden J, Greyson B, James D, eds. The Handbook of Near-Death Experiences: Thirty
Years of Investigation. Westport CT: Praeger Publishers; 2009;151.
108 An overview of prior non-Western NDE research and discussion of the methodological problems of
studying non-Western NDEs is here: Kellehear A. Census of Non-Western Near-Death Experiences to
2005: Observations and Critical Reflections. In: Holden J, Greyson B, James D, eds. The Handbook of
Near-Death Experiences: Thirty Years of Investigation. Westport CT: Praeger Publishers; 2009;135-158.
51
109 McClenon J. Kongo Near-Death Experiences: Cross-Cultural Patterns. Journal of Near-Death Studies.
2006;25(1): 21-34. Four first-person near-death experiences from Congo.
110 Counts DA. Near-Death and Out-of-Body Experiences in a Melanesian Society. Anabiosis: The
Journal for Near-Death Studies. 1983;3(2):115-135. Three near-death experiences from Melanesia.
111 Green JT. Near-Death Experiences in a Chammorro Culture. Vital Signs. 1984;4(1/2):6-7. Four near-
death experiences from Guam.
112 Hadfield P. Japanese Find Death a Depressing Experience. New Scientist. 1991;132(1797):11. Eight
near-death experiences from Japan.
113 I don’t want to overly criticize older non-Western near-death experience research, and I don’t believe
that additional references to this older literature is needed to substantiate the points discussed in this
article. It is recognized that older non-Western near-death experience researchers did the best they could
with the resources and literature available to them at the time. Those knowledgeable about near-death
experience that read the older literature regarding non-Western near-death experiences should easily see
the concerns raised in this article.
114 Ghasemiannejad A, Long J, Noori F, Farahnakian K. Iranian Shiite Muslim Near-Death Experiences:
Features and Aftereffects Including Dispositional Gratitude. Journal of Near-Death Studies.
2014;33(1):30-42.
115 Ghasemiannejad A, Long J. The Phenomenology of Iranian Near-Death Experiences. Journal of Near-
Death Studies. 2020;38(3):196.
116 NDERF Study Methodology: Additional Comments. www.nderf.org/Hub/hmethodology2.htm.
117 Holden J, Long J, MacLurg J, Characteristics of Western Near-Death Experiencers. In: Holden J,
Greyson B, James D, eds. The Handbook of Near-Death Experiences: Thirty Years of Investigation.
Westport CT: Praeger Publishers; 2009;132.
118 Near-Death Experiences Shared in Non-English Languages and Translated to English.
www.nderf.org/Hub/nonEnglish.htm. This page contains over 200 near-death experiences shared in non-
English languages that were translated into English by volunteers.
119 Non-Western Near-Death Experiences Shared in English. www.nderf.org/Hub/nonwestern.htm.
120 Long J. Near-Death Experiences: Evidence for Their Reality. Missouri Medicine. 2014;111(5):377.
121 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;136-139.
122 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;137.
123 Near-Death Experiences in Children Age Five and Younger. www.nderf.org/Hub/children.htm.
124 Sutherland C. Trailing Clouds of Glory. In: Holden J, Greyson B, James D, eds. The Handbook of
Near-Death Experiences: Thirty Years of Investigation. Westport CT: Praeger Publishers; 2009;92.
125 Serdahely WJ. A Comparison of Retrospective Accounts of Childhood Near-Death Experiences with
Contemporary Pediatric Near-Death Experience Accounts. Journal of Near-Death Studies. 1991;9(4):219-
224.
126 Greyson B. Consistency of Near-Death Experience Accounts over Two Decades: Are Reports
Embellished over Time? Resuscitation. 2007;73:407–411.
127 van Lommel P, van Wees R, Meyers V, Elfferich I. Near-Death Experience in Survivors of Cardiac
Arrest: A Prospective Study in the Netherlands. Lancet. 2001;358:2039-2045.
128 Shannon T NDE. 6119 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shannon_t_nde.html.
129 George E NDE. 6192 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1george_e_nde.html.
130 Cory G NDE. 6280 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cory_g_nde.html.
131 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;19-20.
132 Stevenson I, Cook EW. Involuntary Memories During Severe Physical Illness or Injury. Journal of
Nervous and Mental Disease. 1995;183(7):456.
133 Long J, Perry P. God and the Afterlife: The Groundbreaking New Evidence for God and Near-Death
Experience. New York, NY: HarperCollins; 2016;109-115.
134 Samantha H NDE 6692 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1samantha_h_nde.html.
135 Yazmine S NDE. 6992 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yazmine_s_nde.html.
136 Philip DP NDE. 8417 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1victor_philip_dp_nde.html.
52
137 Jean R NDE. 6166 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jean_r_nde_6166.html.
138 Roger C NDE. 744 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1roger_c_nde.html.
139 Long J. Near-Death Experiences: Evidence for Their Reality. Missouri Medicine. 2014;111(5):376.
140 Long J, Perry P. Evidence of the Afterlife: The Science of Near-Death Experiences. New York:
HarperCollins; 2010;115-116.
141 Alma B NDE. 8604 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alma_b_nde.html.
142
Examples of Life Reviews in Near-Death Experiences. www.nderf.org/Hub/lifereview.html.
143 Atwater PMH. The Big Book of Near-Death Experiences: The Ultimate Guide to What Happens When
We Die. Charlottesville, VA: Hampton Roads Publishing; 2007:372.
144 Ring K, Heading Toward Omega: In Search of the Meaning of the Near-Death Experience. New York:
William Morrow; 1984.
145 Flynn C. Meanings and Implications of NDEr Transformations: Some Preliminary Findings and
Implications. Anabiosis:The Journal for Near-Death Studies. 1982;2(1):3-14.
146 Bauer M. Near-Death Experiences and Attitudinal Change. Anabiosis: The Journal for Near-Death
Studies. 1985;5(1):39-47.
147 Ring. K, Valarino E, Myss C. Lessons from the Light: What We Can Learn from the Near-Death
Experience. Moment Point Press, Inc. 2006.
148 Musgrave C. The Near-Death Experience: A Study of Spiritual Transformation. Journal of Near-Death
Studies. 1997;15(3):187-201.
149 Flynn C. Meanings and Implications of NDEr Transformations: Some Preliminary Findings and
Implications. Anabiosis:The Journal for Near-Death Studies. 1982;2(1):7.
150 Sutherland C. Changes in Religious Beliefs, Attitudes, and Practices Following Near-Death
Experiences: An Australian Study. Journal of Near-Death Studies. 1990;9(1):24.
151 Greyson, B. Reduced Death Threat in Near-Death Experiencers. Death Studies. 1992;16(6):533-546.
152 Musgrave C. The Near-Death Experience: A Study of Spiritual Transformation. Journal of Near-Death
Studies. 1997;15(3):187-201.
153 Ring. K, Valarino E, Myss C. Lessons from the Light: What We Can Learn from the Near-Death
Experience. Moment Point Press, Inc. 2006.
154 Near-Death Experience Reality as Assessed by Near-Death Experiencers.
www.nderf.org/Hub/nde_reality.htm.
155 Near-Death Experiences vs. Skeptics. www.nderf.org/Hub/skeptics.htm.
156 William M NDE. 4269 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_m_nde_4269.html.
157 Jennifer J NDEs. 7510 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jennifer_j_ndes.html.
158 David L NDE. 3990 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1david_l_nde_3990.html.
159 Lacee T NDE. 8497 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lacee_t_nde.html.
160 Shared Near-Death Experiences. www.nderf.org/Hub/shared_nde.htm.
161 spirit. In: Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/spirit.
162 Erinn H NDE. 6155 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1erinn_h_nde.html.
163 Rose F NDE. 6269 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rose_f_nde.html.
164 Rhonda R NDE. 6343 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rhonda_r_nde.html.
165 DW NDE. 6106 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dw_nde.html.
166 Camryn L NDE. 6136 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1camryn_l_nde.html.
167 Harold R NDE. 6141 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1harold_r_nde.html.
168 Quinn R. Sentiment Analysis of Web Scraped Near-Death Experience Narratives. Journal of Near-
Death Studies. 2020;38(3):157-179.
169 DW NDE. 6106 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1dw_nde.html.
170 Camryn L NDE. 6136 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1camryn_l_nde.html.
171 Harold R NDE. 6141 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1harold_r_nde.html.
172 Elaine C NDE. 8855 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1elaine_c_nde_8855.html.
173 Discussion of Frightening or Hellish NDEs. www.nderf.org/Hub/hellish.htm.
174 Wendy G NDE. 7373 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wendy_g_nde.html.
175 Ingrid H NDE. 8440 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ingrid_h_nde.html.
176 Alice U NDE. 8871 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alice_u_nde.html.
53
177 Alma B NDE. 8604 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1alma_b_nde.html.
178 Melinda G NDE. 9029 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1melinda_g_nde.html.
179 Brom W NDE. 8957 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brom_w_nde.html.
180 Diana H NDE. 8034 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1diana_h_nde.html.
181 Shanna L NDE. 7700 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1shanna_l_nde.html.
182 Joe H NDE. 7650 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1joe_h_nde.html.
183 Jeri W NDE. 8460 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeri_w_nde.html.
184 June S NDE. 8744 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1june_s_nde.html.
185 Long J, Perry P. God and the Afterlife: The Groundbreaking New Evidence for God and Near-Death
Experience. New York, NY: HarperCollins; 2016:85.
186 Mari L NDE. 3129 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1mari_l_nde.html.
187 Virginia D NDE. 4591 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1virginia_d_nde.html.
188 Jean K NDE. 4964 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jean_k_nde_4964.html.
189 Jeffrey C NDE. 8024 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jeffrey_c_nde_8024.html.
190
God in Near-Death Experiences. www.nderf.org/Hub/god.htm.
191 Schwaninger J, Eisenberg PR, Schechtman KB, Weiss AN. A prospective Analysis of Near-Death
Experiences in Cardiac Arrest Patients. Journal of Near-Death Studies. 2002;20(4):215-232.
192 McLaughlin SA, Malony HN. Near-Death Experiences and Religion: A Further Investigation. Journal of
Religion and Health. 1984;23:149–159.
193 Grosso M. Toward an Explanation of Near-Death Phenomena. Journal of the American Society for
Psychical Research. 1981;75:37-60.
194 Holden J, Long J, MacLurg J, Characteristics of Western Near-Death Experiencers. In: Holden J,
Greyson B, James D, eds. The Handbook of Near-Death Experiences: Thirty Years of Investigation.
Westport CT: Praeger Publishers; 2009;59.
195 Long J, Perry P. God and the Afterlife: The Groundbreaking New Evidence for God and Near-Death
Experience. New York, NY: HarperCollins; 2016;49.
196 Martin J NDE. 6813 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1martin_j_nde.html.
197 Robyn F NDE. 7209 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1robyn_f_nde.html.
198 William W NDE. 6292 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_w_nde_6292.html.
199 Jean R NDE. 6166 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1jean_r_nde_6166.html.
200 Hailey M NDE. 7575 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1hailey_m_nde.html.
201 Sharon B NDE. 3670 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sharon_b_nde.html.
202 love. In: Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary, https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/love.
203 Erin K NDE. 8738 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1erin_k_nde_8738.html.
204 Sandy D NDE. 6125 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1sandy_d_nde.html.
205 Kathi S NDE. 6406 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathi_s_nde.html.
206 Heidi C NDE. 8354 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1heidi_c_nde.html.
207 Rachel F NDE. 8805 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rachel_f_nde.html.
208 Lauren J NDE. 8680 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lauren_j_nde.html.
209 Debra H NDE. 8225 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1debra_h_nde.html.
210 Duane S NDE. 7743 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1duane_s_nde.html.
211 Lonnie L NDE. 7536 www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lonnie_l_nde.html.
212
Awareness of Unity/Oneness Encountered in Near-Death Experiences. www.nderf.org/Hub/unity.htm.
213 If each of two lines of evidence from near-death experiences (NDEs) is 90 percent convincing for the
reality of an afterlife, then the combination of these two lines of evidence may be considered as follows:
The probability that either of these lines of NDE evidence individually is not convincing for the existence
of an afterlife is 10 percent, or 0.1. The probability that the combination of these two lines of NDE
evidence is not convincing for the existence of an afterlife is (0.1 x 0.1), or 0.01, which is 1 percent.
Consequently, the combination of two lines of NDE evidence, each of which is 90 percent convincing for
the existence of an afterlife, gives 100 percent minus 1 percent, or 99 percent confidence that the afterlife
is convincingly felt to exist.
214
Near-Death Experiences vs. Skeptics. www.nderf.org/Hub/skeptics.htm.
