{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/NDERF\/Articles\/natural_afterlife.pdf","mytitle":"<span class=\"color_dark d_inline_b\"><span class=\"icon_wrap_size_0 circle color_grey_light_5 d_block tr_inherit f_left\"><i class=\"icon-angle-right\"><\/i><\/span>Natural Afterlife by Bryon Ehlmann<\/span>","mylang":"de"}
1
© 2017 - 2020 Bryon K. Ehlmann 12-27-2020
An NDE, an event relative time, the imperceptible loss of
time, and a present moment consciousness result upon
death in an NEE and natural afterlife. Others know your
NDE has ended, but you do not.
Clip Art from Microsoft Office.com
The NEE and Natural Afterlife
Your Natural Afterlife: the Non-Supernatural Alternative to Nothingness
Bryon K. Ehlmann
This overview of the natural afterlife gives a scientifically plausible, logically consistent answer to
“Where is heaven?” and may change forever how you view death. It summarizes two, more com-
prehensive, in-depth, and scholarly articles: The Theory of a Natural Afterlife: A Newfound, Real
Possibility for What Awaits Us at Death and an even more profound article, The Theory of a Natu-
ral Eternal Consciousness: The Psychological Basis for a Natural Afterlife.
Keywords: afterlife; natural afterlife; human mortality; death and dying; NDE; imperceptible death
Introduction
You’re dying having what will be called your near-death experience (NDE) should you recover.
Within this very intense, “even more real than real”1
dreamlike experience (or dream)*, you be-
lieve you’re in heaven. You’re overcome by marvelous feelings of wonder, love, and content-
ment and excited about such a glorious eternity. With death, this is your never-ending experi-
ence (NEE) and natural afterlife. At least, so posits the theory of a natural afterlife.
But how is such a natural afterlife, based on an NDE, possible when presumably any dreamlike
experience ends with death and a non-functioning brain? Ironically, it’s possible not because
some supernatural consciousness continues after death but because with death, when mortal
material-based consciousness ends, you will not perceive and so will never know the following:
• You’ve now just died. You’ll get no indication, like a “The End” or a dark “NDE screen.”
• Your NDE has ended. You’ll never notice that nothing more happens in your NDE.
• You’re now timelessly suspended in your
NDE, while for others time is marching
on. Is this happening just before or after
you’ve died? You can’t tell. Relative to
you, death is irrelevant and your NDE is
essentially your NEE.
It’s like watching an extremely exciting movie
and not knowing that you’ve unexpectedly, with
no perceived drowsiness, fallen asleep. For
you the movie is paused, while in reality (that
for others), it continues on. Until you wake up,
you still believe you’re watching that movie.
Understanding and Appreciation
The natural afterlife is hard to grasp, even
harder to appreciate. To grasp it, you must be
able to imagine what it’s like to never wake up
from a dream, something you’ve never experi-
enced. You must imagine never knowing that
your dreamlike NDE has ended, thus forever
“believing” it has not, despite knowing now that
it will. And, you must imagine an eternity rush-
ing by in what for you is an everlasting, yet un-
knowingly final NDE moment and thus NEE.
2
© 2017 - 2020 Bryon K. Ehlmann 12-27-2020
But more precisely how can your NDE become an NEE? First, given we can perceive time only
by perceiving events—i.e., our event-relative time—with death and the resultant end of NDE
events, you enter a timeless state (just like with falling asleep and the end of awake events).
Second, given we can never perceive such loss of time—i.e., our imperceptible loss of time—
you’re unaware that NDE events have ended when you’ve died (just like you’re unaware that
awake events have ended when you’ve fallen asleep). And finally, given our conscious aware-
ness occurs one discrete, present conscious moment at a time and we can only become aware
of something within these moments—i.e., our present-moment consciousness—nothing will ev-
er change your unawareness that the final, present moment of your final NDE event was final
because with the forever timelessness of death no perceived event will ever provide another
present moment. Thus your final NDE moment becomes in your mind your forever present mo-
ment. It embodies your NDE at a point in time including an expectation of future moments (as
does any present moment) and your sense of self (as does any dream). This forever moment,
along with the timelessness that ensues, is your timeless NEE and natural afterlife as depicted
in the above figure.
To appreciate such a timeless afterlife, you must be able to not only envision but value being left
at death in a static, dreamlike yet intensely real-like and emotional state of mind enjoying an ev-
erlasting, ideally heavenly moment, heightened by an anticipation of many such moments to
come. For some, this vision must replace the vision of spending an eternity of human-like time
in a time-perceiving, perfect world. Actually, such a world isn’t logical because perfection implies
no challenges, no free will lest decisions be bad (even evil), and thus an eternity of boredom.
Surely, not perfect! A timeless afterlife, on the
other hand, has no such inconsistencies as one
can logically experience a relativistic forever, per-
fect moment—in reality, the optimal heaven.
Significance
The natural afterlife differs from the supernatural
afterlife or a nothingness** that for centuries were
considered the only possibilities for what one ex-
periences after death. For example, the natural
afterlife wasn’t considered by the authors of many
bestselling books each claiming, based on a per-
sonal NDE, that a supernatural consciousness
survives death—e.g., Proof of Heaven by Dr.
Eben Alexander (Simon & Schuster, 2013). Nor
was it considered by the authors of many scien-
tific articles each claiming that NDEs provide no
evidence of an afterlife since they’re induced by
the natural physiology of the brain shutting
down—e.g., The Death of “Near Death”: Even If
Heaven Is Real, You Aren’t Seeing It by Kyle Hill
(Scientific American, Dec. 3, 2012). Actually,
NDEs, while providing no proof of an afterlife,
provide evidence for the natural afterlife as does
the science attempting to explain them.
Evidence for the natural afterlife, however,
doesn’t guarantee that you will have one, that it
Books Claiming NDEs as Proof of Heaven
NDEs provide no proof of heaven but do provide
evidence for the natural afterlife.
3
© 2017 - 2020 Bryon K. Ehlmann 12-27-2020
will be heavenly, or that it’s the only one possible.
You may not have an NDE, in which case your
afterlife may be similar to your before-life. Or,
your NEE may be of a perfectly marvelous day on
the beach, which for you may be the ideal heav-
en. Or, unfortunately, your NEE may be a hellish
nightmare. Up to 15% of NDEs are such by one
estimate.8
Also, your NEE could be overridden by
a supernatural afterlife at death or sometime
thereafter. The theory of a natural afterlife doesn’t
preclude this.
It merely defines a new, very plausible afterlife
alternative, whose possibility can impact how one
views death (and thus life), which is its main sig-
nificance.
Conclusion
In a nutshell, your natural afterlife could simply be
described as dying while believing you’re in
heaven (or hell) and for all eternity never knowing
otherwise.
The following features make this afterlife extraor-
dinary.
• It’s supported by science—i.e., requires
no supernatural beliefs.
• Its aspects are logically consistent.
• It was never part of the discussion before
being first identified in a 2013 article 9
.
• It’s a gift of nature (perhaps from God) re-
sulting from our amazing ability to have
dreams and dreamlike NDEs, perhaps our
brain’s propensity to induce the NDE, and
our psychological nature regarding time
perception and conscious awareness.
• It can be seen as acceptable to both the-
ists and atheists and doesn’t preclude a
supernatural afterlife if some type of asso-
ciated consciousness continues or arises
sometime after death.
• Its content is mysteriously produced and
personalized, either by nature or by a God
as you may choose to believe.
The timeless and relativistic aspects of the natural afterlife that make it difficult to understand
and appreciate also make it difficult to explain. If you’ve found my explanation in this overview
inadequate, you can find more explanation with more detail and discussion in two additional ar-
ticles 9, 10
as well as three more comprehensive, scholarly articles.11,12,13
Popular Science Articles on NDEs
A simple description of your natural afterlife.
All but text, © Tsekhmister | Dreamstime Stock Photos &
Stock Free Images
Science on the Brink of Death
by SAM HARRIS 2
Peace of Mind: Near-Death
Experiences Now Found to Have
Scientific Explanations
in Scientific American 3
Has science explained life after death?
in HowStuffWorks 4
FYI: WHAT CAUSES NEAR-DEATH
EXPERIENCES? in POPSCI 5
Why a Near-Death Experience
Isn’t Proof of Heaven
in Scientific American 6
Not Dead Experiences (NDEs)
in THE HUFFINGTON POST 7
The science that refutes the claim that NDEs provide
proof of a supernatural afterlife provides evidence of
the brain’s propensity to create a natural one.
Your
natural afterlife
is dying while believing
you're in heaven (or hell)
and for all eternity
never knowing
otherwise.
In a Nutshell
4
© 2017 - 2020 Bryon K. Ehlmann 12-27-2020
References
1. 'Afterlife' feels 'even more real than real,' researcher says, Ben Brumfield (CNN, April 10, 2013)
2. Sam Harris, 11/11/2012
3. Charles Q. Choi, 9/12/2011
4. Josh Clark, 10/23/2007
5. Colin Lecher, 10/10/2012
6. Michael Shermer, 4/13/2013
7. Victor Stenger, 10/11/2012
8. Consciousness: an Introduction, Susan J. Blackmore (Oxford University Press, 2004), p. 362.
9. Perhaps Heaven Is Your Never-Ending Dream and Natural Afterlife, Bryon Ehlmann (HubPages,
2013). This is the first article ever written on the theory of a natural afterlife. It gives a more reli-
gious and philosophical perspective on the theory, arguing for its plausibility both philosophically
and scientifically.
10.The Heaven of Your Natural Afterlife: a More Revealing Look, Bryon Ehlmann (HubPages, 2013).
This article attempts to better explain the natural afterlife and argues for the desirability of the
heaven that it makes possible. The article also discusses a religious “add-on” to the theory.
11.Ehlmann, B.K. (2016). The Theory of a Natural Afterlife: A Newfound, Real Possibility for What
Awaits Us at Death. Journal of Consciousness Exploration & Research (JCER). 7(11) 931–950.
This article provides a comprehensive, in-depth, and scholarly discourse on the natural afterlife, in-
cluding a near “proof” (later made real 12) of its existence. The article can be accessed as originally
published at http://jcer.com/index.php/jcj/article/view/618/632 or a postprint version with some revi-
sions is available at ResearchGate.net by clicking on its title and at academia.edu.
12.Ehlmann, B.K. (2020). The Theory of a Natural Eternal Consciousness: The Psychological Basis
for a Natural Afterlife. Journal of Mind and Behavior (JMB). 41(1) 53–80. This article generalizes
the theory of a natural afterlife, giving it a stronger scientific basis. The article posits a timeless
natural eternal consciousness (NEC) that in the mind of the dying person survives death. The NEC
experience can range from near-nothingness to a natural afterlife. In deducing the NEC based on
empirical truths, the article “proves” the theory of a natural afterlife. A postprint version of the article
is available at ResearchGate.net (by clicking on its title) and at academia.edu.
13.Ehlmann, B.K. (2020). Death’s New Reality: Challenging Orthodoxy and Dealing With Our End-of-
Life Illusion of Immortality. This article discusses the challenges in getting people to understand,
accept, deal with, and appreciate the NEC theory and its significance and potential impact on phi-
losophy and religion. I offer my views on how the NEC and natural afterlife may be seen as com-
patible (or not) with the afterlife teachings of some of the major world religions. A preprint version of
the article is available at ResearchGate.net (by clicking on its title) and at academia.edu.
Notes
• * - Here NDEs are not differentiated from end-of-life dreams as only the dreamlike aspects and in-
tense reality of NDEs are relevant to the theory of a natural afterlife. In fact, in older versions of this
article, what here is called a never-ending experience (NEE) was called a never-ending dream
(NED). Indeed, end-of-life dreams can also provide the basis and content for the natural afterlife.
• ** - A “nothingness” without consciousness is actually illogical. See Why Something vs. Nothing
and the Essentialness of Consciousness (HubPages, 2014).
• All trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners.
• For permission to republish this article contact bryon.ehlmann@gmail.com.
• An earlier version of this article entitled “The Theory of a Natural Afterlife: An Overview” has been
published by invitation, January 2017, in the Scientific God Journal, 8(1) 104-109.
• An HTML version of this article is available on HubPages by clicking: Your Natural Afterlife: the
Non-Supernatural Alternative to Nothingness.
