{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cynthia_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Cynthia W NDE 2398","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cynthia W NDE 2398  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cynthia W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						716  Cynthia W NDE  2398  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I had a tubule pregnancy that ruptured. I remember in the emergency room the nurse not wanting to 'take a crashing patient' up to surgery by herself. I remember seeing my blood pressure drop on the monitor. I came to up in the surgery room.

Right before surgery, I was scared and crying. I told the doctor that I was afraid I wouldn't wake up. He said, 'You are very, very sick and need to go to sleep so I can help you.' I went to sleep but lost a lot of blood. I remember feeling as if I was lying down but I felt nothing under me. It was dark around me but I wasn't scared. I felt peace. No memories of worldly pains, emotionally or physically. There was like a door to the right side of my legs. Just beyond it, there was a male being. I didn't see him but I felt him and heard him. Not The way we hear though. I still heard him and I knew it was male because the voice was deep. He told me I had a choice to stay or go. All of a sudden, I felt this urgency. I said, 'No! Robert needs me!' I then felt like I jerked back into my body. When I came to one of the nurses came to me and asked me who Robert was. I told her he was my boyfriend. I asked her why. She got a funny look on her face and told me she and the doctors were very concerned about me because I was very, very sick, and suddenly out of the blue I yelled at the top of my lungs, 'No Robert needs me!' She said it startled them.

I recovered from this surgery very quickly. My doctor was amazed at how fast I healed. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September 29, 2002  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-relatedChildbirth     ruptured tubal pregnancy  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Ruptured tubule pregnancy, I crashed.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew with every fiber of my being that this was real. No one can convince me different.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I heard the voice.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was dark, and I was able to see to the right without even turning my head.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the deep voice not with my ears but somehow I heard him. I can't explain it.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A male was there I can't describe him but he told me I had a choice whether to stay or go. I don't know who it was.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First peace then urgency to get back.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Trying to explain how I heard the voice, not with my ears.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seem to sometimes know the answer to things that I never knew. Like someone asked if Angels were male or female. I said neither. I just knew. I asked some people I knew who went to church and they said I was correct.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It made me truly believe that there is something out there.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within days. Disbelief.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard of it on TV and stuff. I didn't see a light or anything like that.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew with no doubts that it was real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still believe it was real even more so now.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cynthia_w_nde.html