{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cynthia_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Cynthia P NDE 1035","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cynthia P NDE 1035  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cynthia P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						469  Cynthia P NDE  1035  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Without transition, and without pain, I was suddenly standing in a beautiful green wood. It was like jumping right into the middle of a vivid, colorful dream. There was lots of light and sunshine all around, light breezes rustling the leaves. Profound feelings of joy, well-being, happiness, comfort, and love. Before me, a sort of glade in the woods beckoned me towards lighter woods further on. It seemed there was more sunshine down there. The light was not blinding, nor was it white. It was more yellow, like sunshine really is, and the color of the leaves was spring green. There was nobody there, just me. I was curious about going further down the path, but suddenly had a feeling that I had better get out of there. With that feeling, I was back in the Emergency Room. They had coded me, and I had been clinically dead for just a couple minutes.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    July 29, 2004

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death Heart attack; heart stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I sort of felt I was in a timeless space.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just the soft sounds of breezes rustling the leaves.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   Not a focused light - just light permeating everything around me.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The woods were totally beautiful.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I think I had a clue I was on the other side.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I thought I had better get out of there, even though it was pleasant being there

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I no longer fear the act of dying.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     It has been too soon to evaluate that, since I have already been aware of other level connections with family and close friends.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       There was no worst part. I was delighted to have this experience, and also totally grateful to be back alive.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Everyone I talked with about it is very interested and was happy with the delight of my experience. I hope and think they will see death as a pleasant experience when it comes their turn.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      How can I contribute my experience to the enlightenment of others?

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No, but I should like to know more about other peoples' experiences. I suspect each person has an experience commensurate with his or her belief system. For me, (perceiving God as intelligent and loving Energy,) I think it was significant that I did not see a person, only felt strong connection to the environment I was in.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cynthia_p_nde.html