{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cynthia_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Cynthia C NDE 9587","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cynthia C NDE 9587  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cynthia C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5164 Cynthia C NDE 9587  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I had gone to a New York City hospital for a routine surgery but it was a new procedure.  I received the shot of valium in the hall before I was wheeled into the room for the procedure.    

  While under anesthesia, I was watching the two doctors arguing while still in my body.  The surgeon said to the anesthesiologist, 'You killed her!  You gave her too much.'   

  I began to float outside of my body. I could see myself on the table and I saw the two doctors next to me.  I felt really scared when I realized I was floating on the top of the room.  Then I saw a blindingly bright light.   

  I heard a male voice say, 'That way.'  I began pleading with this voice that I refer to as the gatekeeper.  The place was dark, like a grotto.  The gatekeeper kept saying, 'That way.'  I did not want to go that way or remain in the dark-looking tunnel. I looked in the direction the voice was telling me to go; it was to the left.    

  There was a long line of people going into a brightly lit place.  I locked eyes with one woman in the line.  She looked so sad.  I kept telling the gatekeeper that, 'I have to go back.  I have to go home. My three children are waiting for me.  Please send me back.  Please.'  The brightly lit place had a lot of voices coming out of there, overlapping.  

  Then the gatekeeper said to me, 'The next time you come no matter how you beg and plead you not will return.'  Immediately, I was back in my body.   

  I began ripping out all the IVs in my arm.  I was yelling at the doctors that they killed me.  Then, I began to tell them what they were saying to each other.  They looked startled.  I also lost a lot of blood during this procedure and kept slipping in and out of consciousness in the room upstairs. I was so weak but I left the hospital anyways.  

  I fear seeing the gatekeeper again especially since he said no matter how I begged and plead next time, I cannot come back again.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 04/17/1983  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related.  Drug or medication overdose. While under general anesthesia.      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function). Before the anesthesia I was given a shot of valium to make certain I remained asleep during the procedure.  Then I was given too much anesthesia.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I saw the doctors, they were startled and looked frightened like I was.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal .  I could see and hear everything simultaneously  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout it all  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was able to see myself on the table and felt myself floating  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard everything and could hear especially well in the dark tunnel.  I heard those overlapping voices coming from the bright room they were all going into. It was horrible.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel is where the gatekeeper was trying to send me to the left where the long line was going into that brightly lit room with all the overlapping voices  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes.     The deceased people were on the left going into that brightly lit room in that dark tunnel.  The woman I locked eyes with had straight, short-brown hair and looked so sad. It was awful  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was blinding and that is why I could not see the gatekeeper  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     I was in a dark tunnel that looked like a grotto  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Terrified because I knew I was dead.  I wanted to go back home to my three children.   

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I begged the gatekeeper to send me back to my three children.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I never believed in the bright light nor did I believe there was a gatekeeper who directed people to where they go in death  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know there is a gatekeeper now and death comes for us all.  We all think each day we are returning to our home and lives, but that is not always the case.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify.   The gatekeeper told me to go to my left.  Later, he told me, 'Next time, no matter how you beg and plead, you won't be sent back.'  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I know there is a gatekeeper when I pass who directs me in what direction to go.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     All I know is the gatekeeper sent me back to my body.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes.     The gatekeeper is a divine being  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Life is for the living and the gatekeeper I had no knowledge of before that day.  The blinding, bright light prevented me from looking directly at the gatekeeper.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Those going into the light were in human form  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     My love for my children was why the gatekeeper allowed me to return .  I refused to move on that line and begged/pleaded to come back for my children.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I know next time the gatekeeper said I cannot return.  I have lived to be a grandmother so far.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I made changes in my life after that  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   My words cannot express the place or my emotions enough.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I will never forget this experience.  It was awful  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes. I always had psychic abilities and believed in God ...  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people felt I had a gift spiritually and psychically  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Well I had heard of Near Death Experiences but never had it happened to me before that surgery.    

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real .    I could see the reaction of the doctors when I told them they killed me and what they were saying to each other.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I was grateful the gatekeeper sent me back to my children  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I always wanted to know who is the gatekeeper - what is his name ??  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cynthia_c_nde.html