{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cynthia_nde_21844.html","mytitle":"Cynthia NDE 21844","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cynthia NDE 21844  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cynthia NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1676 Cynthia NDE 21844  					  				  			      	  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had this experience hours after giving birth to my third son. After the delivery, I was transferred to the room where I would stay for rest of my hospital stay. I was laying down resting when I suddenly felt a gush of blood. I pulled up the sheets and noticed that I was bleeding uncontrollably. I got up and decided not to call the nurse for help since I had made a mess. I started walking towards the restroom when I started losing my breath. I also noticed I was losing a lot of blood. When I entered the restroom, I started getting dizzy and at this point, I realized that I was going to lose consciousness.  The last thing I actually saw was the emergency string, which I think I pulled. What happened next is something that makes me wonder ‘what really happened’. I remember being surrounded by a bright white light. It was all around me. I started to hear the voices of nurses in panic, yelling, asking for help. It was chaos. The strange thing about their voices is that I heard them as if they were far away. I could hear them saying to one another ‘She is not breathing, she's turning blue.’ As I heard this I could remember thinking to myself, ’I'm not breathing? I don't need to breath’. As I was in this bright light, I could literally feel wind blowing through my body. I didn't have to breathe because the air flowing through me was enough and I knew this. All I could feel was peace and happiness. But the thought of my children came to me and I thought ‘no my children’. I remember telling myself to breath and then I did. Slowly I started to open my eyes, with a smile. I was happy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 3, 2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    This occurred hours after the delivery of my third son Draven.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very alert. I could think, and I knew what was going on.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The distant voices of nurses.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was so bright and it was all around me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I know I wasn't breathing, but I didn't feel a need to.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness and peace. I felt alive.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was happy until the thought of my children came to me. Then I told myself ‘start breathing.’  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I can't say it was a bad experience because I felt happy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They believed that I died.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cynthia_nde_21844.html