{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cyndi_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Cyndi G NDE 21780","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cyndi G NDE 21780  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cyndi G NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1596 Cyndi G NDE 21780  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at the hospital having a second heart valve replacement done in six months.  When I woke up in recovery, I had a ventilator. I could not speak about what had happened and what was happening.

In the recovery room, I kept having these very small fairies (I call them) all around me. They were going under the blankets and all around. I was very upset because there was more that had happened in the operating room when my doctor pulled the ventilator.

I asked him, ‘do you dream when in surgery.’ He stated, ‘no’. I then said that, ‘we have to talk’.  I told him that I saw them working on me. I was above myself drifting upwards and away. I felt very calm and wanted to go towards this beautiful space. That I still have trouble relating to. The doctor told me that they could not get my heart going and kept me open for almost four hours .They had lost me several times. I saw them working on me but what was so strange or beautiful was that there were people all around the operating table standing behind the operating room. Behind the crew and doctors working on me.  They had these very long, very white robes on that went to the floor and all had hoods coming almost over their heads. The robes were pointed at the top of the hood. I could not see their faces except for one .He stood at my head as I was floating above them going farther and farther away. He raised his head and looked up to me. It was the face of my Father. He had died ten months earlier. He spoke to me but it was not my father’s voice.

I remember every word spoken to me.  The next thing I was in the recovery room with my little fairies fluttering around me. 

I still to this day see them. I accept them, knowing they are there to protect me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  01-20-03

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Surgery-related  heart surgery  Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My whole body. But it was on the table below me, so it must have been my soul waiting.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was dead.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Words were spoken to me by a man figure that looked like my dead father. The words spoken were not by his voice or his eyes.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     All the beings around me in their white robes. They did not lift their faces up toward me. Only the one that was at my head. He was the one that spoke.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the beings around my body. They stood behind the people working on me. They had long white robes with hoods covering their faces.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was not just a tunnel, but a great space of light and beauty. I felt so much peace and I was floating to it.  I did not want to come back into ‘me’ that was on the operating table.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I knew where I was and what was being done. I just had never seen it looking down at my body and I was floating above me.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was very peaceful, happy, and calm. I did not want to come back.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     From what I was told by the being standing at my head , as he raised his head up looking at me and spoke.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes I saw that my body was cut open and all the operating staff working on me. The beings with white robes stood around me behind them, except the one at my head.  He was close and he was the one who spoke to me.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   From what was said to me.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   catholic

What is your religion now?       Moderate   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I felt no one would believe me. I later talked to doctor, and he did believe me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I think there has always been something. I just don't know what!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many different religious people.  They all felt that what happened to me was a special blessing.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   But I still have my fairies around me all the time. I have learned to accept them. I not even sure, if they are fairies but, it’s the best way I can explain them. I have become happy they are there.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cyndi_g_nde.html