{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1curtis_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Curtis M NDE 5297","mylang":"de"}
          	        Curtis M NDE 5297  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Curtis M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2782 Curtis M NDE 5297  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a broken back. I was having back surgery. I remember the doctor coming into the operating room. It was extremely cold. He reassured me that the surgery would be fine. He put his hand on my shoulder and told me just to relax. The next thing I knew I was looking down at myself watching the chaos, hearing my name. Then there was light, a wonderful bright light. I was moving towards this bright light. I wasn't cold anymore. I was at ease. I saw figures and heard familiar voices. One in particular was my Grandmother telling me I needed to go back and that my family needed me. Then there was a feeling of calm. A hand touched my shoulder and I felt extreme love. I looked in the direction of the hand and a man's voice spoke. It was the most calming, loving voice. She is right my son. You must go back. You are needed. I didn't want to leave. 

Then my eyes opened to pain. Oh, the pain! I was back in my body. I haven't told this to anyone. I told my wife this morning and now NDERF. I didn't think anyone would believe me. My wife does, she put me in her arms and whispered, 'I believe you'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/17/08

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related    Other 'I was having 360 back surgery, heart stopped during recovery'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the light

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt weightless

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It seemed foggy like the people I saw. It was like I was looking through clouds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Grandfather, Father, Grandmother, and it must have been Jesus that touched my shoulder.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright warm white brilliant light

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     a beautiful place where my Father, and Grandparents love and are happy.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, love, peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw flashes of my childhood. I know now, that I am loved by Jesus.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I go to Church every Sunday, and I now know that God exists

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I go to Church every Sunday, and I now know that God exists

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Yes, that God does exist, and he does love us

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My life with Church and my wife has changed. I used to drink a lot; I haven't drunk since my experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I felt that people would not believe me and that they would have an answer for everything that happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I believe it was God that put his hand on my shoulder, and told me I had to return, that I had not fulfilled my purpose.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It has been three years. I told my wife, she embraced me and said that she knew.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was in ICU for ten days and on heavy medication so it was six weeks later that I really understood what had happened. I had some doubt that God was real, and I believe he was letting me know that he was real and that he loves me very much, and he wants me to spread the word.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I understand now that he wants me to spread the word.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had a second back surgery. I was heavily sedated and in CCU for 7 days. God came and took my hand, and showed me the rapture. I was holding his hand while he showed me death and destruction. I was calm and felt peace. He reassured me I was fine and the people I loved were fine.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1curtis_m_nde.html