{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1curt_a_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Curt A NDE-like 20850","mylang":"de"}
          	        Curt A NDE-like 20850  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Curt A NDE-like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-like  						629  Curt A NDE-like  20850  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was working for a manufacturing company in Iowa. I just had just left the Marine Corps after almost ten years of service. I left trying to save a marriage and to make sure I would be in the life of my twins. They were only four at that time. I started a job as a journeyman electrician. One Saturday in March, while working overtime, we had a power outage. The other electrician on duty and I were responsible for getting the power back on. After following safety procedures, we locked the power off and proceeded to fix the problem. When we were finishing up at the main bank, I was told by the senior electrician to attach a ground wire to the chain link fence and ground all the static electricity. He looked inside. He told me to go ahead. Everything was grounded fine. I touched the first two phases with no problems. Not knowing the switch was broken; touching the last phase caused an explosion. The power grabbed me and held me for a few seconds. Then I was thrown against the chain link fence surrounding the switches. I was conscious through the whole ordeal. Landing on the ground, I realized I was on fire. I started to run for the building and a nearby shower. The senior electrician who had not been hurt tripped me. I started to roll on the ground.


My foreman, who had walking by to check on our progress, began to put out the flames out with his hands. When he stopped I looked down and saw the skin covering my chest was almost completely gone. I could see my feet. However, the bottoms of my shoes were gone. He proceeded to tell me everything was going to be fine.


As he was talking a close friend of mine appeared over his left shoulder. He had been a military jet navigator who died three years earlier in a plane crash. Mike was in his flight suit. He told me he was there to help me make the transformation. I told him I wasn't ready to go yet. He encouraged me by telling me how wonderful it was. I was steadfast. I didn't want to go. The reason was my father had died when I was four. At that time, my twins were four. Then as suddenly as Mike appeared, my good friend was gone.


Suddenly, appearing to my right came this wonderful ball of white light. From the light, three figured appeared. They were dressed completely in white robes.


There were ropes of gold around their waists. Instantly, my life passed before me. All the good and also the bad. I could not see the faces of the three figures. Again, I said I wanted to stay with my children. I wanted to have the opportunity to watch my kids grow. That was something I was denied. A very abusive stepfather raised me. I didn't want that to happen again.


Then mentally I was told I must do three things. If I agreed, I would be able to watch them grow. First- I was to walk through the valley of death. That was the eleven weeks in the intensive care burn center. Second- I was to bare the scars and pain of the injury for the rest of my life. I have done that. Finally, I was to profess to the world my story and to the fact, there is truly life after death. The figures asked me if I was willing to accept these terms, I agreed and the light was gone. I was looking in my foreman's face as he was telling me I was going to be alright. I looked directly into his eyes and told him I knew I would be.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    'March 29, 1980'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' I was working as an electrician. I had thousands of volts of electricity explode on me. I took twenty-one hundred volts through my bicep and exiting my right ankle. I was burned 57% third degree and 89% total.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was completely conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed I talked to the beings for hours. In fact in was only several second or maybe minutes.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A round ball like a tunnel. Large enough for three figures to walk from.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The smell of burning hair and flesh were dominate. The explosion was so loud the guard who was posted two blocks away said he thought someone had shot a shotgun close to his ear. I didn't feel any of any of my senses.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Complete Utopia!! A feeling I was drawn to experience again to during the following painful days that followed.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Prior to the accident as a young child my grandmother pointed out that I was a special child. I would tell her what she had purchased for me before I got the gift.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Periodically, I have feelings that about certain events. Example: My son was going to be driving back to college. He had a one hundred mile drive. I felt a car would cross the center line and crash into my son. I made him wait an extra hour to leave. On his way back to school, he came a car that had crossed the center line. It crashed into a truck just like his!

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Roman Catholic

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Became an Anglican in the Episcopal church

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I came to the understanding that we are all on a journey. We make different choices during this travel. But there is a higher power and he has a plan. Basically, we all are caterpillars waiting to turn into beautiful butterflies.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was feeling the utopia that comes with death! The worst was losing that feeling of Utopia. Knowing my life was ahead of me and it was going to be a brutal recovery to get back to get back to somewhat the man I was.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    As many as I can.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1curt_a_ndelike.html