{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cristine_h_sobe.html","mytitle":"Cristine H Experience 23053","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cristine H Experience 23053  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cristine H Experience  					  					  						Home  						Classification SOBE  			4019 Cristine H Experience 23053  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It happened August 29th on Friday afternoon 1997. I stood with a shovel on the slope along the east side of my home where I had begun digging up grass to start a new garden. I stopped for awhile and leaned against my shovel while thinking of the wonderful conversation I had with a doctor that morning. Then something got my full attention (it happened to me before) and it was a buzzing or ringing sound right before all sound disappeared. I was quite aware of the complete silence, as if nothing else existed. Time too had changed, it became slowed down or stopped. I felt soothed and completely focused by the silence. I strongly felt that it was an invitation to come on a journey. Feeling more curious than alarmed about what would come next, I let myself fall forward.

My world disappeared (or maybe I did) and I began falling through a blackness that quickly turned into super fast moving streaks of brilliant, colored light. The ‘ride’ was smooth despite the  speed that I was falling at. I felt invigorated and was without fear. To me it was an adventure and I looked forward to what would happen next.

What happened next is a little hard to describe. I was through the tunnel and suddenly landed and watching the creation and birth of everything (earth to plants and animals) one, right after the other. It was shown in such an extreme fast forward that my eyes became ‘fast’ so that I could view it all. I remember a seed then suddenly had roots which spread furiously fast through the soil and then it’s life force pushed through and the petals unfolded to became the most beautiful red rose - I noticed the color was more vibrant as if it had life as well. The flower seemed to grow from seed to complete flower in less than a second. It was like seeing everything being born from conception to birth in the blink of an eye. I can not say in words what it truly all was like. The colors I was seeing had evolved from dark hues of blacks, grays and browns to blues, greens and then reds and yellows. Next I found myself in a room. The room was filled with sumptuous pillows where I sat down and was treated to a show. I can only describe it as being inside a gigantic kaleidoscope, where the colorful images were changing designs rapidly…all breathtaking.  Afterwards feeling very drowsy, I quickly fell asleep on the soft pillows.

In the next moment I was waking up in a placid blackness in space. There were tiny pinholes of starlight giving the impression of floating in outer space. I felt well rested and very calm after what seemed like a long sleep. I looked over to see myself in the distance. I watched myself wake up. I (the self I watched) was curled up in a fatal position. When I became aware that I could move about freely, I ‘opened up’ and gently floated downward through the night above a new place while I waited for the sun to rise.  I am now in a flower garden, a large and very crowded mass of colors in full bloom. The flowers were very tall and looked beautifully old world. This garden was the perfect greeting to the house it belonged to. It was a happy garden, it was alive with a child like excitement. 

Here, my physical body was now completely gone. I was light and getting smaller but becoming much more than before. I could fly all about the garden, my vision was extraordinary and I could zoom in on the tiniest details. I felt very natural here and the garden’s joy made me feel like I belonged. There was always the me with the body (although not seen) watching the other me (a small, ball of light) while experiencing everything the other did. I took notice of the flowers, of how they were alive and they were immersed in a love that was pure. To this day I can cry thinking of it. The garden’s colors were also alive with hues that made every other colors at ‘home’ dull.

The flowers moved as if a gentle wind always was present. It was sunny but the sun never hurt my eyes. The temperature was perfect and I felt a sense of wellbeing as I never have. The sun lit up the petals and wings, making them transparent and I would fly in to enjoy the intricate designs (like I did inside the kaleidoscope). The garden was entertaining me and I felt not only love and joy there but also a sense of fun. My ears could make out each bird and insect but there was a particular sound- a buzzing, that was actually becoming obnoxious in it’s impatience for my attention. I flew to it and was face to face with a big fat bumblebee. It went into a flower and then suddenly was blown out by a tremendous explosion of pollen. I could see each tiny grain floating in slow motion. The expression on the bumblebee’s face was hilarious- like it had the best orgasm ever- It looked me straight in the eyes, smiled and flew off as I laughed out loud. The garden felt like the entire universe and everything it held I could see in a single dewdrop on a flower’s petal. I thanked God for letting me come here. I was having such a great time that I would have been content to stay and explore more but then I felt ‘him’. I flew above and watched as the boy entered the garden path.

The boy appeared to be around 14 years of age. He walked along a stone path which went through the center of the large flower garden and ended at the front door to the house. He wore a high collar blue-gray jacket that looked like velvet, with shiny buttons down the front. I could see white ruffles of his shirt sticking out the jacket sleeves. His pants matched the jacket and were cuffed around his knees. He wore long pale stockings and dark brown leather shoes which appeared well worn. The shoes had brass buckles and the sunlight bounced off of them as he walked. His longish brown curls moved gently and framed his smiling and radiant face. He carried a bouquet of flowers that he picked from a garden elsewhere. Despite his age, he had a confidence and sureness about him. The boy was happy and humming a song that sounded old and silly. The faster he walked the faster he hummed and it made me smile. He did not seem to notice me flying about him (or the other me watching it all from another place).  As he entered the garden The flowers were taller than he and they were very excited by his presence… they truly loved this boy. I followed him closely and realized I could feel his joy. As we came closer to the front door I noticed I became an invisible nothingness that could go through walls and even the boy. I felt incredibly light and every thought I had was good and beautiful. There wasn’t the ticking of time passing and it would slow down or go backwards so that I could take every detail in.

The girl lived in a charming country home, that looked like it belonged in Europe, perhaps France. The house looked like light colored stone bleached by the sun. The door was centered with a large window on both sides. The walls were very thick and windows set deep, the second floor windows were much smaller and I noticed wooden shutters, aged a beautiful bronze. The front door was a thing of beauty, with it’s solid craftsmanship and it’s  layers of pale paint, I noticed a delicate webbing and texture that I had to fly up close to study it..the door reminded me of seashells as well. Adorning the door was an oval brass door knocker where I saw the boy’s reflection in it as he went to use it. Time could go backwards so I could watch the boy  approach the garden and feel the wonderful feelings all over again. We again got to the door, knocked and we waited excitedly for it to open. The boy went in through the door but I followed through the wall. The inside of the house was filled with sunlight and colors much like the garden. I noticed several vases of fresh cut flowers throughout the large room. The furniture was beautifully crafted and covered in materials of floral designs and cheery colors. My eyes then looked towards the back, right side of the room at the bottom of the stairs and I saw the girl. She was small and petite, looked about thirteen or fourteen. She looked so lovely in her long, pale yellow satin dress fitted to her tiny waist. A matching colored ribbon was tied around her head where long ringlets of light brown jumped around her shoulders. Her face really glowed and seemed transparent like the petals lit up by the sun. I felt with her the same as the boy, and can only describe it as pure joy. The girl’s mother was standing close by her and it was she who opened the door. I could not feel this woman’s feelings, and although she seemed happy or pleased for her daughter, I noticed she was somewhat worried but hid it from the girl who could barely contain her excitement. The girl ran down the steps to answer the door. Her mother didn’t seem to think it was ladylike for the girl to have answered the door. 

We watched (again) the boy through the front window as he happily walked the garden path towards the door. I then felt for the first time a dread and my eyes darted to the room on the left which I only noticed now. It was a darkened room but I could make out a man sitting in a chair looking out the other front window, watching the boy come closer. The chair was facing away from me so could only see part of his head. My vision was blurry towards this room, not at all like the super clear vision everywhere else. Very reluctantly, I was about to go into this room but something stopped me. The sudden urgency of time rushed in quickly, so I put the dark feeling away and I moved back to the girl as the boy knocked and the door was opened.

The girl took a deep breath (so did I) as she opened the door.  When the boy and girl finally were face to face they didn’t say one word, instead I felt everything they ‘said’. I felt every emotion of both of them and went back in time again, this time with her so I could feel her emotions and watch through the window as he approached the garden. We both could barely contain our joy and ran down the stairs as he was about to knock. I watched them as they looked at each other with young smiles. Suddenly I was inside the boy, seeing her through his eyes and also looking at him through her eyes. I then saw both their reflections looking back at me. What I felt next was simultaneously going through both of them and feeling their love. Then it was time to be rushed back to where I was before, standing on a slope leaning against my shovel.

When I looked around I was amazed how my vision still seemed clearer and the grass a much more vibrant green. I could see individual blades of grass which moved as if alive. Distant and close sounds of insects and birds seemed clearer and harmonious. I felt incredible and energetic. I felt happy but also sad. After awhile, the colors went normal but horribly dull compared to that garden. Everything here is dull and dark in comparison. I did feel the presence of something much greater than us during my OBE.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 29th 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Experience associated with just a normal day

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  There was the me with a body watching me (from above or somewhere else) without the body and both experiencing the feelings simultaneously.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      I was both conscious and alert. I knew I was somewhere else the whole time. It felt like I was away for the entire day but it was only minutes. I was still standing in same position and never fell asleep.   I was both conscious and alert. I knew I was somewhere else the whole time. It felt like I was away for the entire day but it was only minutes. I was still standing in same position and never fell asleep.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time would speed up, slow down or go back in time to experience feelings all over again.

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My senses were very sharp, especially sight and hearing.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Only in the beginning when the humming sound got my attention and sound all went away. During it, I only heard sounds in the garden of birds and insects making beautiful sounds/songs. No speaking aloud, but everything was understood.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A young boy and girl, who were in love. I felt their love. Love was communicated. I felt like I knew both, as if I were both or one of them.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I suppose the landscape and house seemed familiar in only that I felt at home.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt exhilarated from the adventure and I felt love as I have never felt before. I cannot describe, except that it was pure and extremely powerful.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I remember seeing in such fast forward the creation of planets to animals and plants. It was so fast that it seemed to happen all in less than a minute - too much for my human brain but while it happened, I seemed to know something I can't recall now.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Features consistent with your beliefs at the time

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     My beliefs haven't really changed. No religious affiliation but, yet, I believe in God.  

     After the NDE:

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had the buzzing sound before. Once when it happened I was in my mother's womb and experienced birth again, and another time I felt and heard the presence of a 'ghost'. I have had psychic type stuff most of my life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything about it was incredible, but especially the part where I went through the 'souls' of two people in love. I didn't want it to end because I felt too good there. The worst part was the instant of dread and fear about that room.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cristine_h_sobe.html