{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cristina_f_ste.html","mytitle":"Cristina F STE 9759","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cristina F STE 9759  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cristina F STE  					  					  						Home  						Classification STE  						5275 Cristina F STE 9759  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was always a spiritualism seeker, since I was a child. I had my first out of body experience when I was around 13 years old, when I saw my body while I was sitting in a sitting position over my body. After that, I had so many out of body experiences, encounters, crossing walls, some were very scary, some weren't. I had so many out of body experiences that I got very bothered and sick of it, and I wanted to finish this activity. But it always came involuntarily and I couldn't do anything about it. I was drawn to many types of spirituality and I was always searching for new modalities to understand God and healing techniques related. One day I went to a lecture about angels, I was fascinated about angels at that time. At one point, the speaker, a specialist in angels, said one thing that really got my attention: 'Whenever you need to call your angel, call him three times and he will for sure listen to you'. I loved that and later after the lecture I learned that my angel name was Melahel when reading a book about angels, based on my day of birth. That phrase was stuck in my head, in a good way.   

Few months later, I gave birth to my second child. I had a c-section, and I had a strong allergic reaction probably because of the anesthesia, my body was itching terribly, especially my face. I vomited, but it wasn't a life threatening situation, according to the doctors. They thought it was related to the morphine based anesthesia that I received. So, I was sleeping the next night, and then suddenly I saw a group of people running after me, it looked like one of my out of body experiences. I was desperate, I knew if the group would reach me, they would end my life. I was terrified and I remembered what I heard on the lecture about angels and I called my angel 3 times. Instantaneously a very bright light appeared on my right side, it was him, my angel (I think). I was amazed, and I thought 'Wow, he really came when I called him, it worked!' 

But right after I felt deeply guilty, I crouched down, hiding my head and my face, thinking 'oh my God, what have I done? I called a very important being, a celestial being, because of my mundane issue, and now he's here, I'm pretty sure he is very busy with much more important things to do and now he's here stuck with me... and I can't even look at him because his light is so bright and I'm afraid of it' I was so ashamed! I stayed in that position to show the light how inferior I was, to demonstrate my humbleness, I thought it was the right thing to do.  And then right after I heard him saying with the most calming, non-judgment, full of love voice, something that I will never forget for the rest of my life: 'I came here because you called me, not to judge you. If you don't want to look at me, you don't have to. Just look to the other side.' And that was the most profound sentence that I heard in my entire life. The way he spoke, the compassion, the love, and the most important, the non-judgment. It was incredibly beautiful and it took me to a completely new perspective. I felt so embraced, loved, and not judged, it was a tremendous relief, it was like a very heavy weight was lifted off my back. I was feeling so light... and then the most beautiful part was that he started to send me love and involve me in love like no words can describe. It was a love that I never experienced while here on Earth, I was soaked by love and I felt like I was in ecstasy, nirvana, a place of incredible peace and love. And then he said to me: 'I love everybody else just like I love you. I love them in the same way even if they were the worst people in this world, with exactly the same amount of love'. Ok, now I was amazed, because when he first showed up he demonstrated how nonjudgmental he was, but now, loving the worst person with that amount of love, to me was the ultimate, the maximum love he could reach, but no, his love was just limitless. Now I could finally understand the meaning of love, the unconditional love, that I knew only through words on Earth, now I could feel it in my bones, the real love. I noticed that in that place I didn't need food, there was no illness, no problems, no stress, and I completely understood that love could heal any type of illness. I was so amazed because I was always looking for answers on how to heal illness through spirituality, and then now I was sure of the power of love over illnesses. I completely forgot who I was, who my family and friends were, I felt like a bubble full of love floating. I didn't want to go back, so I decided that I would stay there forever. Then the light said to me: 'You have to go back, it's not your time yet. You still have work to do'. Although I felt fascinated that I had a work to do said by the powerful light, I still didn't want to go back. Then I realized instantaneously that I had 2 sons on Earth and they needed me. I really wanted to go back after that, but I asked the light how I could go back, the group of enemies would attack me again. And then he said 'Go following that direction', and pointed to a direction. I felt so safe and secure, I wouldn't ever doubt it. I understood at that time that this power, light and love was the most powerful thing in the universe, and anything that I could ever imagine that was 'bad' wouldn't have enough power against the light. I followed the path indicated by the light and I came back happily to my body. 

I will never forget the most beautiful experience I had in my life. And I try to share my encounter whenever it's possible, when the situation is adequate. Because what happened to me, the way I was told by the light, is the same for everyone else, so I think it's fair to share my experience with others. Thank you.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 09/02/1996  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Childbirth       Other I wasn't sick, it happened at night during sleep.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could perceive and see things more vividly, I can say that my consciousness and alertness were 100% comparing to everyday.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Yes  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision didn't depend on my eyes, I had a more ample vision, not just straight vision like we experience on this reality. The things that I could see were so vivid, bright.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same way, my hearing didn't depend on my ears, I received a much more clear sound message, also very vivid.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     In the beginning of the experience there was a group of people running after me, they wanted to attack me and I felt that they could end my life. I'm not sure if they were deceased or who they were.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw an extremely bright light on my right side, it wasn't from this world, very powerful. I couldn't see entirely, just part of it, but I knew it was there and what it was.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, compassion, felt embraced, that I had a meaning, amazed, shame, guilty, I felt small, I felt big, non judgment  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I was raised catholic, but at that time I wasn't following catholicism  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was now sure, certain and felt the existence of a higher power.  

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I'm Christian, following Shamanism.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was aware of the God's love, non judgmental, and power, but it was clear to me that the knowledge was only practical knowledge, not knowledge in action. For exemple, I knew that God doesn't judge, but why then I felt so guilty and small, even afraid when close to the light? I knew that God loves everyone, but why was I so amazed when he said and demonstrated so I could feel it, that he loves everyone equally no matter who?  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Act with more compassion, non judgment, and love toward others. No fear of celestial beings.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The light was the being, a celestial being, an angel. The light was on my right side, very bright, I couldn't see entirely because it was too bright for me. I was afraid that somehow I could not handle the brightness. The light said that I didn't need to look at him, that I could look to the side. It talked to me in a beautiful and compassionated voice, at the same time very powerful about love and non judgment.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The light said to me and showed to me that he loves unconditionally everyone regardless their good/bad performance on Earth.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I encounter a celestial being, a pure light, I think it was an angel.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The light said that I couldn't stay on that place, that I had some work to finish on Earth.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     I had an awareness of life continuing after death because I saw the light that represented afterlife.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I wanted to be in that place forever, but the light said that I should come back.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I felt that difficulties, illnesses, war, crises, hunger, war, they were all elements from Earth, not from that reality.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     The light poured so much love on me, intentionally so I could feel it, inside me and around me. I can't describe the love, it was unlimited, pure and unconditional. It doesn't exist here on Earth. Also the light said that the love was unconditional, for every being, regardless of being good or bad people.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I knew what love represented from now on, I knew in my bones that nobody is neither superior or inferior, that God loves everyone unconditionally, the feeling of being non judgmental. Because of that I would see and deal with people differently, with more compassion, understanding, and trying to see the divine in which one. I'm also trying to work on my judgmental actions toward others. I know that there is a place on my memory that I can go when I feel sad, and I would feel loved again. It's a teaching for the rest of my life.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can't express love, no judgment, calmness, and many other feelings that I experienced on that state because I don't have other similar feelings here on Earth to describe.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I can recall the visions, the words, and the feelings like they happened yesterday.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I always had some psychic occurrences in my life, before and after, so I don't know if I gained some after the experience.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, knowing and feeling real unconditional love.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right after the experience I told my husband, he was present with me in the room. He accepted well and was amazed, he like me is a spiritualist believer and seeker. I shared with other family members and also they believed and loved my experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had a vague and shallow knowledge about NDE, I only heard that one person saw a light after almost dying, but we never talked about it. It was a distant subject to me, but I respected and thought that was plausible. I don't think what I knew affected my experience, I knew so little and the experience was so intense.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Very real, no doubt, no question, it really happened to me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I always saw my experience without any shadow of doubt, that it was real. Right after and even now, it didn't change a thing. It really happened to me, and it doesn't matter if others believe or not. The sensation of reality will be always present on my memory.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

obuixhu         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cristina_f_ste.html