{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1craig_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Craig P NDE 8172","mylang":"de"}
          	        Craig P NDE 8172  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Craig P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4266 Craig P NDE 8172  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I experienced a sudden heart attack and was flat-lined in the emergency room.  

  					     I left body and floated above it while observing the fruitless efforts of the many people below who were trying to revive me.  As my earthly senses disappeared, I began seeing images of others and people who had passed away.  I seemed to float upwards or outwards and experienced a parabolic worm hole in space.  As I passed through the wormhole, I emerged into a vast darkness with many small points of light.  There came an understanding that each point of light was an individual entity like myself.  All were exactly similar and had no connection to their life as a human being.  A brighter light appeared some distance in space or time.    				 When drawn to this greater light, images of my family appeared.  There was an instant in time that a choice had to be made.  

I was suddenly transported back into my earthly body and understood that they were reviving me.  I felt nothing, but knew what they were doing to revive me.  I was transported to another hospital and continued to travel in and out of consciousness.  I traveled down a brightly lit hallway and people were looking down at me.  My wife appeared, but I did not have any memory of her.  Two stents were placed in my body during surgery.  I woke up in the intensive care unit with two people in the room.  I had no memories of the past, except what I have described, and did not remember that I was human. 

   				 It took three years to begin to understand that I was again in a human body. I don't believe that I can ever be more human than my entity again.  I have gradually learned how to function in this body and teach, create art and heal others.  Very few people are able to accept my story.  I am very alone as a human being, but connected to something universal.  Be calm.  Be kind.  Understand everything.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1.12-13.2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related. Heart attack.  CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The emergency room and the people in it were exactly as I saw them when leaving my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the chice of returning was presented to me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time and space are human creations to attempt to understand life on a human level.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I painted canvasses in the past as an obsession with images no one understood.  They became my road map to understanding when I returned.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I only had hearing at the very beginning upon leaving my body.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Fleeting images of people and images from my past.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     I entered a place that was  more an awareness or understanding.  It is not a place per se and I cannot  describe it very well.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       There are no senses or emotions.  They are human.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     Everyone has this capability, but not on this plane of existence.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control.     There were scenes, but I do not remember them all.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   See above.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment.   Religion is a human creation, not spiritual.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am mindful of the human purpose of religion and the separation and hardships that religion creates.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment.   Religion creates differences, not universal understandings.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I have been open to new information since childhood, but realized that we know so little.  Humans created a very complicated formula to understand a pure and simple understanding.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Be calm.  Be kind.  Understand everything.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I now have an understanding to help others release from their fears.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Every entity is exactly similar when we leave the human body.  Time on earth no longer has any relevance.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     There is something greater that what I experienced, but if I joined the light, I would not return to my body.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are on a journey to elevate our understanding of everything.  There appears to be nine levels of understanding in groups of three.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     Yes.     Everyone will experience what I did when they leave their body.  There is no death.  That is a human creation.  It does not exist.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Nothing we do on earth will affect the afterlife.  WE should still be calm, kind and understand everything.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is an amazing human emotion.  It helps us transcend ourselves when alive, but does not exist after you leave your body.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am in this body, but I reside elsewhere. My purpose is to aleviate fear and teach a greater understanding of who we really are.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Most friends and family avoid me.  New friends seem more understanding and kind.  The understanding shared with my wife has reached a much higher level of spiritual understanding.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Perfect calm and understanding is not part of the human experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  Once I became of this understanding, everything becomes less important.  When I chose to return, I have a purpose.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can recognize the pain in others and can direct their energy to heal themselves.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is more than humans can comprehend.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared this experience with many since the event.  Most people are skeptical.  Few attempt to understand.  My wife is an enlightened being, capable of wonder and great understanding.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   A person close to me appeared to me shortly after she passed.  She reassured me that everything was fine and not to grieve for her.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was awake.  It was vivid.  I had a visceral response.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     She was able to communicate with my mind after passing.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I carry the experience with me always.  It is like a lens to clearly see this world for what it really is and what it could become.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have only met two others with a similar experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Share any form of art created in  response to their greater understanding.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1craig_p_nde.html