{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1craig_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Craig B NDE 21292","mylang":"de"}
          	        Craig B NDE 21292  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Craig B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						926  Craig B NDE  21292  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Our judo club met in a gymnasium where we simply pulled our judo mat out onto the gym floor under the basketball nets.  Our instructor, aka ‘Coach,’ was blind, and he was also a medalist in the Paralympics.  On the night in question, Coach started grappling with a brown belt named Marc on the north end of the mat.  I grappled with a brown belt named Andy on the other end of the mat, right beneath the basketball net.  As we grappled, I quickly established the mount (the top position) and positioned myself to move into an arm bar, forcing Andy to tap out.  Andy was not defending against a possible arm bar, nor was trying to escape from his inferior position; he simply reached up with his long arms, grabbed the lapels of my uniform, and used his knuckles to put pressure against my carotid arteries.  Foolishly, I didn't try to defend my neck, thinking his attempt to choke me from a mounted position would prove futile. 

I almost had the arm bar. But then, suddenly, I'm looking up at the basketball net.  I seem to be in the center of the mat. I hear Andy: ‘Coach!  Coach!  Something's wrong here!’ 

‘What happened?’ I wonder.  ‘Did I break my neck?  I can't feel anything.  I must be paralyzed--I can't even feel myself breathing. But I can't panic.  I can't feel anything.  Oh, this is great.  This is just great.  What are they going to tell my girlfriend?  Where's Andy?  Why hasn't he run over here?’ 

I woke up, staring down at Andy.  I was still on top of him, staring down.  Andy was still pinned.  ‘What happened?’ I asked. 

‘Your eyes rolled back in your head and you just went out.’ 

‘How long?’ I asked. 

‘Just a few seconds.’ 

‘You need to tap out sooner!’ shouts Coach from the other end of the mat. 

We started grappling again.  This time I defended my neck, and I got the arm bar.

Andy tapped.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    September 1999

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Being choked unconscious in a judo match.   A Judo match..  In judo, carotid artery chokes are employed to cause an opponent to tap out.  If the judo player does not tap in time, the choke will produce unconsciousness due a lack of blood flow to the brain.  If such a choke is held for more than a few seconds, death may result.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time seemed to slow down dramatically.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My hearing seemed more acute.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Panicked thoughts, but without corresponding panicked feelings.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe in out of body experiences.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst part was thinking I'd been paralyzed.  The best part was realizing that out of body experiences actually occur.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1craig_b_nde.html