{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cori_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Cori R NDE 4881","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cori R NDE 4881  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cori R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2489 Cori R NDE 4881  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having extremely bad headaches for about five days prior to this happening. I had gone to the doctor and was told it was my sinuses. The pain and pressure continued to get much worse and I wasn't able to sleep during the night. After a painful, sleepless night, I had gotten up early and decided to lay on the couch while my eleven year old daughter watched TV.

The next thing I knew I was on a path with 'blurry' beings on each side. They didn't look like 'people' but I knew they were. The colors were very earth tone. As I floated down the path, there to the right I saw my dog Molly, who had passed away about seven months before. The next thing I knew, I was at the end of the path. It felt so good. Then I heard my daughter, from what seemed a million miles away crying 'Mommy! Mommy! What's wrong?!' I heard her, but I didn't want to go. She cried again very, very faintly. I again said to myself 'I don't want to go. I won't go!' It felt so good there, no pain at all, so peaceful and cozy. I felt so good. Just then, one of my dogs literally jumped on my chest and stuck her tongue in my mouth! I was then almost 'slammed' back in to reality and stopped seizing.

I ultimately ended up having a craniotomy to remove all the blood from the inside of my skull.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'July 17, 2007'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Brain hemorrhage from being prescribed too much blood thinner medication  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was having a seizure caused by a brain hemorrhage.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I reached the end of the path and felt so good.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I reached the end of the path and felt so good.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was all earth tone colors. Grey, browns, tans.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The only thing I heard was the very, very faint crying of my daughter.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     A path with beings on each side.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Other beings and my dog that had passed away.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the path and the end of the path

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bliss, pain free, peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     In no uncertain terms, there is a greater being (God) watching over and taking care of us, here on earth and beyond.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     In no uncertain terms, there is a greater being (God) watching over and taking care of us, here on earth and beyond.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It has calmed my own fears and it makes me happy to know that it isn't the end. I used to panic when I thought about dying.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to explain what I was feeling during this episode.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Very in tune with family members that have passed.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, that I shouldn't be afraid of dying and that it felt so good.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A month or so.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Saw on TV many years ago.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I first thought that maybe it was a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I think it is awesome. I used to be so, so afraid of death. I was afraid that when you're gone, that's it! The end. I don't believe that anymore.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cori_r_nde.html