{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1constanza_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Constanza S NDE 9446","mylang":"de"}
          	        Constanza S NDE 9446  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Constanza S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5077 Constanza S NDE 9446  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    My name is Constanza and this is my NDE experience. 

  It was Friday, October 31, 2003, I was 9 years old. I was about to turn 10 years old on December 13th. That day I attended my school as usual. 

  It is important to talk about an experience I had as a child where I saw spirits, which I called angels and they saved me from what could have been a domestic accident, when a huge old heavy double bed mattress almost fell on me, when I was 4 years old. This is the first memory I have of such an experience. My parents could not understand how that mattress did not fall on me and how I could lift it out of bed by myself. It was practically impossible for a 4-year-old. If it fell on me, I would probably end up getting hit since there was very little room and a piece of furniture behind me). I always felt out of place, at my school I was bored, and I liked to spend time on my breaks with a nun I frequented at the church of the school I attended. I remember spending hours and hours talking to her about life and how I saw the world. As a child, I used to write books and stories about stars and constellations. I also danced to pop songs and gave concerts for the school students in front of the school church. I never felt I belonged to a religion, I questioned everything since I was little and didn't like to follow the rules. But I always felt connected to the mystical and divine. Going back to day 31, that day at the end of the school day, I was walking outside my school. I greeted my sister; I remember her smile. She was going into her school day and I was leaving the school. When I got to the door I heard that the children were a bit rowdy, that day there was a solar storm or something blocking the sun in the sky. It was like a black circle, which was just above the school exit door casting a shadow. I stopped at that door, I stood there looking at the sky, it was dark and I felt strange. Something in my body felt that something was going to happen, I had always been quite observant and awake. For a moment everything became slow, as if I and all the people were not in the same place or time. People were walking fast but I felt slow. As if time was freezing like in the movies. This was in a matter of seconds. I came back to the present, everything started to move normally. Two of my classmates wanted to go buy candy at the store across the street from my school. So, I left my backpack on the bus that would take me home. I got out and watched my classmates cross the street. I was between the bus and another car behind it. I was small and when I crossed the street, I was hit by a car. Next to the school is the school church. My body flew to the beginning of a gas station that was next to the church and the end of the church. My body fell there. My classmates called me "The girl who flew".  I don't remember the moment of impact. I don't know what happened at that moment but I remember that I was saved, there was another presence there. Suddenly I felt as if I was trapped in a black space and my spirit falling into my body. I found myself asking God “please don’t let me go, that it was not my time yet.” I was aware of everything that had happened, as I fell from that dark tunnel with a light at the end. A light that was cold and warm at the same time, that gave peace. I was thinking about my mom, and it all happened too fast, I guess not in real time. I felt my soul fall into my body and I didn't open my eyes. I felt peace and despair. But I was conscious and kept repeating in my mind, "This can't be true. This can't be true." I opened my eyes and felt like I came back to life. I didn't know where I had gone and I was scared. There were a lot of people around me, children, teachers looking at me. Then they asked me my name and if I remembered what had happened. I said yes. But I couldn't talk much, I was confused but I knew that day had changed my life forever. They wouldn't move me. I wanted to see my mother. 

  First I was seen by a doctor who was the father of a girl from school and then an ambulance came. I had an inwardly exposed fracture, my whole left side of my body bleeding. At that moment, my fracture was the most important thing. It was not easy to heal. After almost a month in the hospital and several attempts to heal my bone. The doctors decided I needed pins in my bone. So they did a surgery later. The nun came to visit me. I don't remember what she said to me, I only remember that she smiled and gave me a medal of a virgin, which I still have today. That year I did not finish the school year. Later, the following year I returned to my school. I was being helped with psychologists and psychiatrists, I had post-traumatic stress disorder and I was still trying to come to terms with everything that had happened to me. I was also being interviewed by judges about the whole situation. At the same time, I felt that a part of me was taken away. I began to suffer from vertigo. The doctors found that I had hearing loss in one ear. And also, a lesion in the hypothalamus. It was really hard to get my life back. It was clearly never the same. I had a lot of information for a 9 year old kid and my parents couldn't answer my questions. Psychiatrists and doctors started to medicate me incorrectly, for many years. I had no contact with religions anymore. I had hope in myself. I went through depression, I wanted to die. I felt misunderstood. At school I did not feel accepted or understood. I suffered from bullying, among other things. I thought I was a very sensitive person for this world and at that time there was no current information. 

  When time passed and I grew up. I went back to therapy on my own. I knew I had questions that at the time had not been answered that I wanted to face. At first I couldn't talk about the accident without crying. But I felt there was a purpose and I didn't have to give up. I found a psychologist who helped me really understand my sensitivity, was really kind and encouraged me to look for the answers. I visited other doctors and I was suffering from a vestibular disorder, which caused me to become unbalanced many times and fall.  And all that goes with that. To accept my accident, to understand the things that were not wrong with me, that were part of a disabling environment. And how I could manage myself in it. And in the world. In my last years of therapy and getting settled and healthier, I began to have visions. Things that I dreamed were happening. Like war or problems in the world. These things were happening some in my environment, and some in the world. I was experiencing going out of my body. I had also started to learn tarot and other forms of divination. All of that had always appealed to me. Since child. In my family, these things like consulting with witches, tarot readers was a normal thing. My aunt used to do tarot cards and I always wanted to learn. I realized that my visions had always been there but that by taking so much medication they were kind of numb. Then I had a relapse. I had my awakening of consciousness or spiritual awakening at the same time and I entered a journey of "Twin Flames". When I had this relapse, I began to develop my mediumship. I spent several months trying to get my balance back (because of my vestibular disorder). During those months, I had dreams where I was presented with my deceased grandparents, deceased teachers from my school where the accident occurred and the nun from my school who had also passed away. I received messages, I knew things that had happened without having been present. Then I started talking to my grandmothers about it. About my origins, my family's origins. If there were others in the family who experienced these things. And yes, I found out that one of my grandmothers was a witch. That both of my grandmothers also had contact with spirits and rituals. They shared their information with me and I continued to find the answers through enlightenment or dreams. Past lives were revealed to me, words in other languages that I did not know through writing. My grandparents gave me messages. One day I was very sick, I felt tired, the dizziness was back and I felt like it was going to be my last day. Little by little I felt as if my brain was not oxygenating well. My mother was lying asleep next to me. Taking care of me. And I had a revelation, white stairs appeared. 

  I felt like I was giving up. I saw three people standing on that staircase, wearing hoods and dark robes. Everything was white and there was a light behind the stairs. It was probably the closest thing to "heaven". At that moment one of them, held out his hand to me and said "it's not time yet 333". Again, that happened in a matter of seconds. I came back to me. And I woke up my mom, agitated I told her what had happened to me. I told her that I understood what had happened to me the day of my accident. At that moment I understood that I had experienced NDEs. When I recovered, I began to study more about it. I consulted my psychologist, I told her that I had discovered something called NDEs through an old book that was surprisingly in the library in my room, called "I saw the light". I found it and it caught my attention. My sister had left it there along with some of her other books before she moved out. I read it and cried. I really felt that this writer could understand my experience. I cared to know what my psychologist's opinion was to my whole story. She recommended I watch a series of NDEs when I told her my story. And she told me that there were things that we just couldn't explain. And I understood that what I had experienced was a near-death experience. I felt a lot of comfort from reading stories similar to mine. Of warriors all over the world. I felt peace. Continued healing and finished my therapy and came back to myself. Now when I look in the mirror, I recognize who I see. 

  I am currently working on my video for my next song about my "dark night of the soul", I already released one about my spiritual awakening and the relationship with my NDEs, many things are incredibly similar. I know the world is awakening and I know there are new age beliefs. But what I really know and can share is that my soul knows no religion. It knows no divisions. I just know that love is the word and I want to be close to that. That in the end it is us and that light. At the end of the road, I saw a light. And the closest thing to that light is the sun.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death     

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I started to live my life in a different way.  My whole life suddenly turned into a waking life.  But with too much information for a girl.  She also lived in a state of alert due to the fear of going through the suffering again.  (Crossing the street or surgeries)  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Before opened my eyes.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     In both experiences the time was different from the real one. For some reason it slowed down or advanced but it was not a single time  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     at that moment everything was moving at an unusual speed. As if he was being more aware than usual.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    In my case I had hearing loss.  But the sounds were louder and more confusing before the experience. And also after it.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I remember falling from the tunnel, I don't know if I got through it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt the presence of someone divine.  In the two experiences I had.  My relationship with them was close as a family.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   White light, cold and warm and brilliant.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think the mystical place was found in that circular light after the tunnel. And before  the stairs.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, anxiety, fear, peace, Happiness to feel that something had been revealed to me.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I understood a lot about the world, the people and suddenly everything seemed like a lie. As a child I didn’t want to think about it and I felt I started to be a deep human, more than usual. I had  to worry about my health first but when I grew up I was able to understand it better and understand the universe.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I was unaware of these experiences during my experience but when I discovered NDEs I became more conscious about it.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not at the moment of the experience but after, visions, dreams about the world and my future  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I feel like I didn't want to leave, I wanted to come back. I felt like I wasn't ready and when I fell into my body it felt like coming back to life.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became a more aware person and more connected to the divine world.  

What is your religion now?       No comment     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     At the time of the first experience in the accident, he did believe in a divinity. And that event, it reinforced my sense that something was protecting or holding me and I also felt that the adult humans around me didn't really know anything. I remember thinking that no one was really aware. And I remember thinking that everything was really wrong, because everything was different from that mystical place.  When I grew up, I understood everything in a deep way. I was away for a while from believing in the divine but I always knew that something above me was taking place.  And after my awakening and the events that followed, my contact with the spiritual world was strengthened. And I feel grateful.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became a more aware person and with a belief that there is some connection with the mystical world.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   In the accident I felt that someone had helped me.  And when I was sick, I saw three beings that did not seem from this world and I could not see their faces either.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   My mind assimilated one of the hooded people on the stairs with the image of Jesus. But I couldn't see his face, it was his presence.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I can't describe what the place was, but I know it was mystical and illuminated like a portal.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Something divine or different. They were three hooded beings, but they did not seem to be from this world.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel like I gained knowledge that I wasn't ready for. As if I had to prepare for it. I had the sense of having a purpose.  And the information was overwhelming. I feel like that was about evolving, healing and spreading love as well as sharing my story or the obstacles I've overcome. And particularly I write songs and that just comes out of me, because of my experience.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I understood the meaning of life at a very young age and had a purpose to fulfill. I know I had to do something, as if my life was no longer mine, but was interfered with by something higher.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     During the accident I only knew that I had to go back and I had a mission.  He didn't know which one. During the illness, I received the message “333” and that it was not my time yet.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I got a message but not in experience, it was about love. The word love just revolted me.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     After these experiences I have become a more compassionate, empathetic and kind person. So I am grateful for what I have been shown and grateful to be able to share it.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Since I was little, it was difficult for me to relate, I felt that conversations were meaningless and I always wanted to have deep conversations.  After having my spiritual awakening, my relationships definitely changed, I no longer resonate with the same friends, or people I used to spend time with, for example.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because I was so young, I had a hard time explaining it.  It also felt like an  experience to find the right words.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  Due to all the trauma and something that I would carry my whole life, this event will always hold a more important place than any other event, because without it I would not be who I am.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I think the gifts were before my experiences, including seeing spirits at age four. So I feel like I was born with them. I feel that this event only reinforced those gifts but that it needed me and the development of my consciousness to be able to discover them in depth.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think the most significant thing was that feeling of bliss that that experience left me knowing that something else is around even though we can't see it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared it in my music and on my social networks as well as my family and my psychologist. I'm not sure everyone understands this, but I have. I felt I had to.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      At the time of the accident my first thought was that it couldn't be true. I thought I saw something I shouldn't have. Growing up and having other situations in which I had contact with these types of realities, experiences, I realized that yes, it was definitely real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     At the time of the accident my first thought was that it couldn't be true. I thought I saw something I shouldn't have. Growing up and having other situations in which I had contact with these types of realities, experiences, I realized that yes, it was definitely real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The day I felt I was going to die being sick, that day and the message on the stairs was like a confirmation of what I had lived through.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, thank you!               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1constanza_s_nde.html