{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cono_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Cono J NDE 2914","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cono J NDE 2914  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cono J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1014  Cono J NDE  2914  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I had started to bleeding two days before. On Friday morning, we went to the hospital and they told me I was having a miscarriage. The strange thing about it was that when they did the scan, the fetus was only nine weeks, but by my dates when I took the pregnancy test, I was twelve weeks.

The last thing I remember before my experience was sitting on the toilet and saying to my partner that I wasn't feeling very well. The next thing I knew I was drifting, gliding, weightless as if in outer space. I was surrounded by an intense, warming feeling. There was no light, just the most amazing dark blue color everywhere. I was aware that I wasn't breathing but it didn't matter. All I felt was love, joy, happiness, and every wonderful emotion you could feel all at once. My thoughts had changed - not what I thought, but how I thought. Each thought was like a stone dropped into a still pool of water as if time had slowed (maybe it had for me). Then I became aware of others. There were hundreds of thousands of others. I couldn't see anyone's face at first, just their outlines. We were on the edge of a cliff. They were all waiting. I tried to see what they were all looking out at, but just as I was going to ask, a man in a very old uniform turned to face me and in a forceful voice said, 'You're not meant to be here!' The next thing I knew, I could hear my partner's voice. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 09 June 2002  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         miscarriage  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Major blood loss.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I came to the cliff with the others.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   To me it felt like the experience lasted for at least fifteen to twenty minutes but I was later told by my partner it was only a matter of seconds and the I had had a seizure.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I felt cocooned and even when I was starting to return and I heard my partner's voice he sounded a long way away.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Standing on a cliff's edge waiting.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, blessed, intense happiness, love, all the wonderful emotions you can experience all at once.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   god is everywhere  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   the same  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The intense emotions and the fact that I'm okay with death now when they're ready to have me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About a week, and no, everyone just thought I was crazy.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The emotions stayed with me for weeks after, it was strange I had just had a miscarriage and had to have an operation of which went a bit wrong, so the nurse told me, while I was on the table I had an asthma attack and stopped breathing.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The memories I have of that day are as strong as they were the day after it happened.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Prior to my experience I had a gift sometimes I knew things before they happened, people visiting without them ringing, and dreams of death which was a prediction of birth, but after my experience I suffered major depression and lost my gift. I miss it and wish I had it back.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Prior to your experience did you have any spiritual gifts, dreams, visions?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cono_j_nde.html