{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1connie_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Connie J NDE 920","mylang":"de"}
          	        Connie J NDE 920  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Connie J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						393  Connie J NDE  920  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I don't really remember a light, I do remember someone coming towards me, a human but I couldn't or don't remember seeing a face. I do remember hearing children playing close by. It was a lovely feeling of everything being good and right there, there was no animosity, there was no hatred, and I had a total understanding of why I was on earth and who I was. I wasn't there long and someone told me I had to go back, it wasn't my time yet. I argued that I didn't want to leave but before I could get my argument out I was already on my way back. When I was there, it was so beautiful I didn't want to leave. There was nothing mean or bad there at all. It was wonderful. This was the bad place to me. But when I was back here I couldn't remember what it was that I so understood when I was there. I still wonder. It seems as if it was something so simple, so obvious, that I just couldn't believe that I didn't realize it before. I still wonder what it is.  I do know that I am not afraid of death any more. Death is not the end of the world. I believe that we are here for a purpose. Maybe to learn something we needed to learn before we can go there.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    September 6, 1998

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was visiting my twin sister's home and shortly after leaving, with my then three year old son in the car, I somehow went off the road and went airborne and hit a tree. (I was told I was trying to avoid hitting a deer.)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was in and out of a coma for four days. At the time I believe I was at the accident site.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There were several months after that that I had a hard time remembering anything. People visiting me and things like that.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard children laughing and playing.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     It was as if I closed my eyes and when I opened them I was there.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I don't know who they were and I didn't see an actual face. The communication was not really verbal more mental on their part but I was trying to talk.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was light when I was there but not before.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     There was a playground with a lot of children playing.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Most definitely!! I had a total understanding of the universe at the time!! (This is weird.)

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was aware, I was told I couldn't stay and that was that.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I have always had a belief in God, this just made it concrete.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It is hard to describe to someone who has not experienced something similar.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     My twin sister and I have a special bond we are identical twins and we tend to read each other's thoughts from time to time.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was the feeling of peace and love I experienced. The worst was trying to figure out if I had a coma-induced experience or if it was real. (I still don't know.)

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mixed emotions from people. Some believe me others don't. It changed my life and has touched a couple of people.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Am I crazy?? Did I really have this happen?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1connie_j_nde.html