{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1concetta_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Concetta S NDE 5461","mylang":"de"}
          	        Concetta S NDE 5461  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Concetta S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			3569 Concetta S NDE 5461  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was about five, I drowned in the open sea. A wave overturned the boat where I was sitting with some relatives. That morning, I was the only girl staying on the bottom of the sea, accompanied by a cone of light. Despite the water that filled my lungs, the cone of light made me breathe and taught how to swim, in a very fast and telepathic way. So it saved my life.

All this might seem like an altered memory of a little girl, but believe me, it has transformed my life. In the following period, I began to be a special little girl. I saw things, beings and people that others did not see, but mostly I had premonitory dreams, of which my parents were afraid. In fact, everything I told them when I woke up in the morning, usually happened only a few minutes later.

At the age of eighteen years old, is the epilogue. At that time, I was undergoing a minor turbinate surgery. This surgery was supposed to last up to thirty minutes. Instead, I came out of the operating room after five hours because I was dying from internal bleeding. 

I found myself out of my body as if to watch over it. I found myself observing it peacefully. I was at the back of my head, at the same height as the operating table. I was watching my body as a mother looks on a little son in the crib. Yes! I loved that body, even though I had a hard time recognizing it was mine.

A little later, a blinding light showed up to my right. Very firmly and with authority, it ordered me not to turn around, without words, as I did not need words to hear it.

The light ordered me not to turn around because, 'It was not a place that I had to see.' That massive being rested his hand on my physical face that was immobilized by anesthesia, and moved it. The blood came out from my mouth, unlocking my throat. I was saved.

I started circling in the air, but only to pass through a wall. I found myself in the next room, next to a nun who was sterilizing some surgical instruments. I scared her, distracting her from what she was doing. Was I a ghost? The nun glanced up and saw what was happening in the big glass in front of her, in which she could see me, that is, my body. I remember her screams at seeing me losing blood and the immediate action taken by the medical staff.

I suddenly felt that I was being sucked into a place that I knew was my brain! It was dark, and I stayed there for a few seconds waiting for something to happen. Then I woke up. I had several pieces of evidence as to what had happened to me. A week later, I went back to school, and one of my classmates told me that she felt that I needed to read a shocking book and lent it to me. It was called 'Life after Life'.

That was not the only thing that happened to me. From that day until now, the Being who saved my life has always made sure he is standing next to me, by concretely solving everything. Once he spoke to me for a few seconds and hugged me. I could feel it as someone that is trying to tune a radio, and a lot more that is miraculously absurd.

Anyway, what I want to say is that everything ensued in my life, especially my quick change, has been oriented toward the Good and to convince people that 'GOD EXISTS'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  settembre anno 1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the surgery, always.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I saw the wall, it was as if I was ordered to cross it. I saw, and I did it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not listen with my ears. I did not need them.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I knew that there was someone next to me, but I could not see him - he didn't want me to see him.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a light to my right, but I could not turn around and see it, because the light ordered me not to do it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peacefulness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     In later years.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     It was to my right, but I could not turn around. When I was saved, I was sucked into a dark place, and I was curled up waiting for what I should do. I'm sure it was my brain.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   religione cristiana

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   religione cristiana

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Afterwards, but it's too hard to explain.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love everybody.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The sense of protection that I had towards my body, as if I watched over it, and my submission under the command coming from the light at my right.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I used to read people's minds, just by them walking quickly next to me. I saw what was going to happen to them, and I was telling it to my college friends. I also had premonitory dreams, visions, etc., but my story is too difficult. I shall confine it to that mere experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At the beginning, I did not understand what had happened. I thought it was nonsense. I started to take notice only after I asked myself, 'But how could I view myself?' It was very normal to me. I wasn't able to speak about it until years later. My mother was the first to know and maybe the cause of my silence right after. She told me not to tell anyone. She still does today. Many people are still affected. I would say sometimes, 'Save yourself!'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have never perceived it as strange. It was completely normal to be out of the body. I had not noticed it until I realized it was weird - crazy.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The beginning of a change and a superior Will that wants my experience to help others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I think it has been opened a powerful portal. I'm constantly in contact with the Being, and I have evidence of this through events, of which my friends and my loved ones are aware.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I've had two experiences, the first one when I was about five years old, and the other one when I was eighteen. So you might ask: How many NDEs you had in your life?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1concetta_s_nde.html