{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1conan_nde.html","mytitle":"Conan NDE 20422","mylang":"de"}
          	        Conan NDE 20422  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Conan NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						420  Conan NDE  20422  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I remember hearing voices and seeing a crowd of people huddled around my passed out body. I might have been thinking something along the lines of 'oh crap' during the experience, but it's been awhile and my memory is fuzzy. I do remember after the event attempting to remember details, but having trouble focusing onto anything real specific (during the OBE, I wasn't thinking about looking for details; not even sure if I was thinking at all, rather than merely experiencing). I then finally came-to (i.e. woke up from what I guess was an unconscious state - don't remember if there was still a crowd of people around me), and a friend helped me to the nurse's office. I was pretty shaken up, partially from oxygen deprivation, partially from the OBE, partially from the humiliation of getting knocked out by a soccer ball to the gut. It was an interesting experience.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    3rd or 4th grade

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident  Playing soccer, got nailed in the gut by a ball at the exact wrong moment (wasn't paying attention, stomach muscles were completely relaxed).  Oh, and some guy had me in an arm-lock (rough-housing during recess - was a pretty random event; might been so s  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Recess. was playing soccer with a bunch of other people (around 4 balls in play at the same time)The wind was knocked out of me, I couldn't breathe, I collapsed unconscious (ended up splitting my lip). Doubt it was 'life-threatening,' but I was pretty shaken (partially from lack of oxygen).

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Was 'hovering' above my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Hovering over a crowd of people, hearing voices. Sight, voice perception.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Not unusual - people milling about the downed guy in the field.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   Stuff was lit as should be expected (except for lack of shadow from my 'hovering' self).

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      There might have been a generalized 'oh crap' feeling (as in, I just got hit in the gut by a soccer ball, and now I'm having some weird-ass OBE, which can't be a good sign, especially considering the somewhat humiliating nature of the incident [death by random soccer-ball to the gut?]).

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   Nope. Just happened. Then 'woke up' and 'came-to'.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Liberal   pretty much none.  Of belief that there is no meaning/purpose to life (some connection to Buddhism, Nietzsche..), which makes life kind of interesting because, for whatever reason, having a meaning/purpose makes for a better life than not having one.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best part: having the experience, I guess (experience of an OBE, not the experience itself. Yay semantics).  Worst part: getting knocked out by a soccer ball to the gut, and having a split lip, and feeling kind of humiliated, and getting to wonder if it would be possible for me to get killed by a major hit to the gut.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No    This is the first time I've shared it. Yay web-randomness.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Made me wondering about sensory brain connections -- possibility for non-eyeball produced exterior sensations to trigger (realistic) visual experiences in a state of 'unconscious.' Also, subjective nature of the self - i.e. others who claim to have OBEs, near-death experiences: how much is it influenced by prior influences (i.e. one sees/experiences what one 'subconsciously' wishes/expects to experience).

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Seemed to do a pretty good job of allowing me to share my experience. Thanks.  Note: some of the questions (which I left unanswered - namely the 'click a choice' ones) could have used a 'not applicable' choice.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1conan_nde.html