{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1colleen_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Colleen R NDE 22787","mylang":"de"}
          	        Colleen R NDE 22787  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Colleen R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3234 Colleen R NDE 22787  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience was on March 20, 2012. I was ejected from a moving truck and I wound up under it somehow. I don't really remember the accident itself, just flashes of images of me stepping onto the step of the truck, the tire really close up, then I saw black, red, and grey, and, as the tire ran over my head I could feel the pressure of it and tried to scream. I tried to brace myself somehow against it, but my head burst at the top. And then I felt when my hair was caught and the tire slid over my face, peeling almost half of it off, and also my ear. After the truck drove away down the road, I could hear screaming, not sure if my own, and cars honking.  I realized I was still in the street, and if the truck hadn't killed me, whatever was coming next would.  So I sort of raised myself up on my elbows and knees and attempted to crawl to the curb.  I remember my ear hanging by a string of flesh, hanging and dangling by my cheek.  I looked up at the people and tried to say, 'Help me,' but I'm not sure if I got any words out.  My friend driving the truck realized what had happened, turned around and came back for me.  He picked me up in his arms and put me in the truck, then proceeded to drive me to the hospital as fast as he could. He ran red lights, staying ahead of the police, who were on his trail—he risked his life and many others' trying to save mine.  I died sometime during that drive.  Last thing I remember was blood squirting on the dashboard in front of me and on the window, and looking in the rearview mirror, for the last time…  There's a big gap I don't remember. They say I was combative and convulsing or something when the police got me out of the truck.  But I don't recall anything but closing my eyes, lying on the seat of the truck. Then the next thing I remember, I was in the hospital, I heard beeping, a jumble of fast talking voices, all blurry, very blurry.

Then nurses and doctors were rushing around, trying to figure out what my injuries were, and how to stop the bleeding. Things seemed clearer and clearer, and suddenly I found myself standing behind the doctor, who was now cutting my jeans off my body. I looked at myself, lying there, with my head busted open, my new white sweater soaked with blood and getting cut off now, too, my cute jeans all ruined. I decided I wasn't going to stay around to help them resuscitate me, and I left. I don't recall how I ended up back at my dad's house. He had passed away the year before. There I was, with him, and my mom and my uncle, my best friend, my Tio—everybody that had passed away was there. But I only talked to my dad. I never accepted his dying. I missed him too much. So I was happy. I just stared at him and he seemed to glow. He looked so beautiful. But also, he looked sad. So I asked him, 'What's wrong?' and he said, 'You can't stay.' And I was like, 'But I'm here, I don't want to go back.' And he told me to think of my kids having to grow up without me; he said, 'Imagine if I wasn't there when you were little.'  He'd died when I was thirty and even at that age, I'd lost my mind wishing he'd come back. Anyway, he was right.  And for the second time, my kids save my life.  I'm a mother of seven perfect little children.  My oldest is about to turn sixteen, I have a twelve year old, a little girl who's about to turn nine, another little girl who's about to be seven, a five year old, a three year old and a two year old… So, when all of a sudden I felt them jumping me with those cables, I decided to go back.  It was my choice the whole time.  Anyway, that's my story. Sorry if I ramble, but these nine months since the accident have been the best time of my life.  I'm finally pursuing my dreams and living purposefully!  Best thing that ever happened to me? Being hit by a truck!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 20,2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death.   I was ejected from a moving truck and fell under it somehow, and my head and chest were run over by the back tire.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Music, everything talked or sang, like the flowers in the front of my dad's house, just quiet background music.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     My Dad's house.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was light all over, it was suddenly bright everywhere and everyone kind of glowed.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy, peaceful, remorseful, obligated, blessed, loving, determined, guided.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

The experience included:       Life review

The experience included:       Vision of the future  
   
  After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1colleen_r_nde.html