{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1colin_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Colin S Probable NDE 5281","mylang":"de"}
          	        Colin S Probable NDE 5281  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Colin S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2770 Colin S Probable NDE 5281  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Our house, situated in the bush three miles from town, relied for its water supply on a large concrete tank at the back of the house. No one much came to that spot. At the foot of the tank was an electric pump, which came on when the faucet in the house was turned on. One day, the tail end of a cyclone hit our area, and it knocked down some of the grid poles and we lost electric power. When the electricity was restored the next day, I walked around the house to check on the tank and noticed a dead bird floating in the water. Standing next to the pump motor, I took a rake, leaned up against the tank, and tried to pull the bird toward me. I was concentrating on what I was doing, and did not notice when my right leg touched the motor. Suddenly, with the electricity going through me, I became frozen to the tank and was unable to move. The electricity stopped my central nervous system from functioning and I was no longer able to breathe. I did realize, in a sort of hazy way, that this would be 'over and out' for me. Well, one of our endeavors was a school bus service. In my mind, as I stood in this fixed state, I was driving my bus at breakneck speed down a bush lane with trees on both sides. No matter what I did, I was unable to get my foot off the accelerator. I felt great concern for the kids riding in my bus. It was quiet; I heard no sound of any kind. The image faded and I don't know how long I stood there, or what happened next. When I came to, one of our employees was standing over me.

Fortunately, three days before this event, he had read a brochure, issued by the SEC (State Electricity Commission) that explained what to do in case of an electrocution. Fortunately, he decided to check on the water tank maybe minutes after I did. He took me inside, and I sat there deep breathing for at least half an hour. Next, I was examined at the local hospital, and it took some time to find the burn mark on my calf. (This later became an open wound, and then it began to heal - new tissue grew from both ends, meeting at the middle.) It took about a year for certain simple words to come to me. I have had no further ill effects from the experience. Since my experience, I have developed deeper insights as to who and what 'God' is. I have served, for many years, until recently, as a counselor to terminally ill people. Death is no concern to me, knowing that it will be beautiful. It does concern me that I may cause grief to family and friends. I'm also thankful for the experience, as it has enriched my life greatly. Your work is equally interesting. I wish you well.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Body connected to live electric current.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I do not recall this happening during the event.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I do not recall this happening during the event.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not seem to exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clouded.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Total silence.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     No, unless the wooded lane was the tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     No, unless that wooded lane was an location.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Concern for those in the vision.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now don't find meaning in any church. We, my wife and I, now communicate with loved ones that have gone before. They are ever in our consciousness. If we need help, they never fail, right down to a finding a us parking place.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now don't find meaning in any church. We, my wife and I, now communicate with loved ones that have gone before. They are ever in our consciousness. If we need help, they never fail, right down to a finding a us parking place.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It has changed to the degree that I now believe that my task is to do everything possible to make someone (my wife) happy and in return for that, I may receive (her) love.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     There seemed to be an answer to previously unknowable questions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Finding out for myself that this world and its workings are on an unbelievably grand scale. We don't know half of it yet. I hope and trust that my demise will be the greatest adventure yet.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years. They listened politely and said, 'Oh, my gosh.'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Several predetermined events lead to my life being saved. The Universe knew that this event was due to happen. I still have a feeling that none of this world we are in for a short time is real. It may not exist at all.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My view hasn't altered in all these thirty years since.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have been saved from other potentially difficult situations, e.g. shipwreck at sea. Our angels will not deprive us of our experiences, but they influence the outcome.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It has been fun to relive the entire happening in your questionnaire, and the outcome of it all is a warm feeling inside!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It's good just as it is. My thanks to you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1colin_s_probable_nde.html