{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1colecia_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Colecia W NDE 9478","mylang":"de"}
          	        Colecia W NDE 9478  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Colecia W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5097 Colecia W NDE 9478  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I went to pick up a girl who was going to play bikini laser tag with me.  She had the gas money that I needed to get into the party. I didn't have a lot of money on me, so I got something cheap that would get me high. While I was driving by myself, I was huffing the can of duster and passed out behind the wheel.  The car hit an electric pole and ended up between two trees in the woods. The person who found me knew my name. He was calling my name out, otherwise I wouldn't have noticed that I was dying. 

I was coming out of myself and it felt like I was underwater. I didn't realize I was dying until I tried to breathe and  couldn't do it. I was lying down. When I sat up and  turned around, I saw myself still lying there. 

  The guy who found me said that he opened the door and that the  head rest was touching the back seat and  the airbags had deployed over my body.  When he removed the airbag, my body immediately sat up. I took my finger and  was rubbing my teeth. I asked him if my teeth were broken. The next thing I know I woke up in a hospital with staples and stitches up my stomach, a brace on my neck, and an IV attached to both arms. Tubes were down my nose and my throat. I had broke my nose, fractured my cheekbone, and had three holes in my face. I also had a couple of fractured vertebrae, two broken ribs, and internal bleeding. 

 I spent 13 days in the hospital and  learned the difference of the strengths between my soul and my body. My soul was on fire, but my  body was broken. I felt like I was strong but I was weak at the same time. I learned that my soul is more important than my body. During that time I became more conscious of life and anything having to do with spirituality  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 05/27/2017  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Drug or medication overdose   Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I was huffing air duster and passed out behind the wheel. I ended up between two trees in the woods.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew I was dead I knew I wanted to go back to my life I knew that I didn't want to be dead and I was given the decision to come back or to stay dead  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know what time it was but it was the point where I saw myself laying down and I was coming out of myself and I tried to float back into my body or swim back into my body I should say  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was experiencing something spiritually and another realm and experiencing something physically at the same time  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There were multiple things happening at the same time  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When I was having the near-death experience I could hear the person that had found me I could hear their voice echoing and it was their voice that made me realize that I was dead or that I was dying if I if God would not have sent that person to me and they and they didn't know my name like if he wouldn't have known my name I wouldn't have known that I was dying and I would have stayed dead  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place that I was in was where I was but a different version of the exact place that I was found  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was freaking out because I didn't need to breathe and it scared me because I'm used to breathing  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   When I realized that I was floating outside of myself and that I couldn't breathe I turned around and when I saw myself laying there on the ground I decided then that I wanted to be alive that I didn't want to be dead so I returned  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Was d was doing a lot of research on spirituality at the time  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I am a spiritual life coach so I believe in spiritual things not really religious  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God does exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     And changes that occurred since the near-death experience would be that I became obsessed with spirituality and accumulating knowledge of the  I I had a shaman for 5 years I became a spiritual life coach my sight came back to me so I can see spiritual entities and celestial beings  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see spiritual entities celestial beings I can project the energy off of my body for people to see like a glowing light or light orbs that can create those I can and I know things I do readings for people lots of psychic abilities I write  

  Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Learning the difference of the strengths between my body and my soul.  I respect my soul over my body knowing that my body will die one day and my soul will live forever  
  
Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately I documented everything online  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1colecia_s_nde.html