{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1colby_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Colby C NDE 9565","mylang":"de"}
          	        Colby C NDE 9565  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Colby C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5152 Colby C NDE 9565  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    

This is taken from my book (Smacked by the Light & Chased by the Dark) that details my life-long series of religious, spiritual, supernatural, and near-death experiences, but it was put in the setting of a fictional character (Draco Jade). This was done for various political reasons, but it is basically my story and is mostly true if not for some oversimplification for the sake of ease in telling a story. I have adapted the pull the contents of the NDE chapter (There and Back Again) from my book and switched it back to being my story, rather than that of Draco Jade. The NDE is a small, but pivotal part of a much larger story of the Lord trying to get my attention and guide me according to his plan for me and dark forces on the other side trying to distract me from that plan or harm/kill me if I tried to follow it. My book (Smacked by the Light & Chased by the Dark) describes the rest of the thematic stories, which continue to this day. I update it from time to time with new things that happen that are undeniable. https://www.amazon.com/Smacked-Light-Chased-Dark-Almost/dp/1957507098/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_top?ie=UTF8    

This is the story of my NDE:    

It was New Year’s Eve, 1992. Colby and some friends (three other guys and four girls) piled into Colby’s van. Being as it featured a two-person hammock and soft rugs in the back, it was perfect for road trips!     

Colby’s van-load of people and numerous other groups from Malibu were all headed to Mammoth, California, for an amazing snowboard trip. Mammoth had just been dumped on by a 100-year storm and received over five feet of new, fluffy snow in a single evening.     

The who’s who of the Malibu’s surf rat crowd and a bunch of smoking hot girls were all going there, and Colby was not going to miss out. The groups had several cabins at their disposal, and they headed out for what they thought was going to be the most epic weekend ever.    

At the same time, Colby’s maternal grandparents (Tom and Marion) were due to come into town for a one-week visit only a few days later. Colby planned to only be gone a couple days, and he would be back in plenty of time to visit with them. He reassured them and himself that everything would work out fine.    

However, he had that familiar yet enigmatic warning feeling haunting him. It strongly impressed on him that he should not go. In fact, it seemed to even plead with him, but unfortunately, he would not listen to it. This may have been his biggest mistake ever!    

Colby dismissed it as some guilt over possibly missing a couple of days with his grandparents at the beginning of their trip. After all, he did speak to Marion, and she was disappointed that he would not be there when the two of them arrived. They were not that close with Jezebel and Omen, and they detested Khan. So, the idea of spending a few days on Khan’s ranch without Colby being there was very uncomfortable for them.     

Moreover, Marion knew how to wield guild like the sudden emergence of a dagger that nobody expected, but which had lasting effects. She could convey and inflict guilt on others like a concealed weapon that nobody saw coming until it had overtaken them! Her guilt trips always had lingering side effects.    

Colby evaluated all of the positive and negatives and reasoned, 'this trip was too important!' Besides, the snowboarding conditions were going to be perfect, they had an ideal situation set up, and he was not going to miss out. This was sure to be the best trip ever! Besides, what could go wrong?! – Wrong question!    

They spent a full day of snowboarding in what were indeed exceptional conditions. Afterward, the group returned to the cabin to get ready for a night of partying. They planned to join their dozens of friends and acquaintances from Malibu that also came up to snowboard and party.     

Their plan was to walk from party to party at the respective cabins occupied by the broader group of Malibu friends. Once again, that familiar warning feeling was more intense than ever and warned Colby not to leave the cabin. It was adamant that he must stay inside and not go out partying with his friends.     

Yet again, however, he would not be deterred. He was sure that the parties were going to be epic, and the night would be unforgettable! He had no idea how right he would be. It would be a night he would never fully recover from.    

They were getting ready to leave for the evening, when Colby had another distinct and unmistakable impression. He was undeniably told that he needed to leave the keys to his van and his portion of the gas money in his backpack and tell the people he drove up with about it. This he finally decided to comply with. He told them: “In case something happens to me, my keys and gas money are in my backpack.” Everyone gave him bewildered looks, but they shrugged it off and nodded or said, 'Yeah, whatever!' As he did that, he had the unshakable feeling that something would happen that night and he would not be returning.     

At this point in Colby’s life, he had not learned what the Holy Spirit was, let alone to trust and follow it. It was just a strange feeling of wisdom and knowledge that tried to guide him (if he would follow), but it was not a lot of fun. It tried to talk him out of things and seemed to have an alternate plan for his life and pretty much everything he did in it.     

He had to admit that he had discovered anecdotally that if he followed it, things always worked out. Whereas, if he didn’t, they would generally result in some type of failure and usually a bad one. There was a 100% success rate going both directions, but somehow that wasn’t convincing enough for him. Colby innately was adept at ignoring it, because it was usually a total buzz-kill.    

Colby and friends excitedly ventured out for what was sure to be an amazing evening. The first thing they noticed was that there was no way to walk on the sidewalks, as they were completely covered over with walls of snow. The 5’ snowfall had been pushed by snowplows out of the streets and onto the sidewalks, making them completely impassible. Pedestrians had to walk down the slippery, icy street and then make their way through channels or tunnels cut into the snow that led to the houses.    

The group of Malibu friends slipped and slid around the icy streets and visited the various parties one after another. It was basically the cabin version of a pub crawl where they drank copious amounts of the alcohol that they brought with them, or that was available to them at those parties. It was a mixture of hard liquor, beer, and wine coolers. They also smoked the generous amounts of weed that everyone brought to share and which was passed around in every direction from various sources.     

Colby had consumed quite a bit of all of the above and became very intoxicated. The more he drank and smoked, the less he felt the gnawing feeling from the Holy Spirit that all would not end well that night. However, it never fully went away. With each passing moment, he felt like he was living the last few minutes on a countdown timer that would somehow end him when it hit zero.    

After learning about the biggest and most well-supplied party around that was just a few blocks away, Colby’s group decided to head in that direction. The party they were at had run out of alcohol, and the girls had already moved on to the big party anyway. So, it was time to move on, and that was definitely the place to go.     

As they approached the house, a group of idiots on the front porch started yelling obscenities at them. They responded in kind, like even bigger drunken idiots. It escalated quickly into a shouting match, threats, and then a full-blown brawl. Within minutes, some of the occupants came running out of the house armed with bats, poles, and 2x4s. As a result, a melee ensued that quickly engaged and swallowed up both sides.     

Colby did not get involved in any of the antagonizing that started the fight, and he seriously did not want to get involved in a drunken brawl. He was way too loaded for any of that. He just wanted to 'chill.'    

So, he hung back on the street, along with a group of other people trying to stay out of the battle. He was far too inebriated to fight, and it seemed pointless anyway. They weren’t even fighting over anything important – just pride. So, he didn’t get involved in the drama.     

As a reminder, the street was the only place for pedestrians to travel on or stand, because the sidewalks were covered with over five feet of snow. Unbeknownst to Colby, a car that was driven by a very intoxicated acquaintance from Malibu (Mika) was barreling down on him across the ice and snow. Mika was accompanied by three other young men from Malibu, one of which came up with Colby. Colby was occupied watching the fight and did not notice the quickly approaching car. He just stood there with his hand in his pockets and a grin on his face (according to eyewitnesses). The car drew closer to the crowd with no signs of stopping.     

People nearest to the car scrambled out of the way, but Colby was looking in the other direction and was busy musing over the fight.  He did not notice the vehicle closing in on him until it was nearly upon him. He quickly turned his head just in time to see it, but it was too late!    

The police report stated that the vehicle was traveling at about 35 MPH when it struck Colby on his left side. He slid up onto the hood of the car and into the windshield. His face actually went into the windshield, and the left side of his head struck the top of the window frame. His body flipped over the top of the car and up into the air. He landed on the icy roadway behind the car, as it sped on, without stopping. The driver and occupants fled the scene.    

He then got up and started running after the car, but it was all over before it even started. His heart had already stopped, and within a few seconds, he fell to the ice, dead. This immediately ended the fight, and a crowd of people gathered around Colby. None of them knew what to do, and they just stood there watching him die.    

Fortunately, there was a man (Tom) who was awoken by the sounds of the fight. He peered out the window just in time to see the entire sequence of events. Tom just so happened to have a multi-faceted career as a medical incident responder. He was an EMT, ambulance driver, nurse, part-time firefighter, and volunteer police officer. There was probably not a better person to have witnessed Colby’s accident. If anyone could save him it was Tom!    

The rest of this story needs to be told from 2 perspectives. The first will be from the perspective of the world around Colby. After that, the story from Colby’s perspective will be told, which is completely different, and nobody standing around would have expected it.     

As soon as Tom saw that Colby was struck by the speeding car, followed by his rise, run, and then fall again, he woke his wife (Wendy) and told her to call 911. Tom then ran outside in the ice and snow and began to administer CPR. He cleared the vomit from Colby’s airway and began to breathe air back into his lungs and administer chest compressions. He continued this for about 15 minutes until an ambulance arrived.     

Unfortunately, Wendy had been unable to get through to 911. The phone lines were inoperable, due to the storm, and the 911 call didn’t go through. Cell phones were not common at the time, and as such, they had no way of contacting help.     

It was either pure luck or divine intervention that an ambulance showed up at all. The stories shared of that night revealed that the ambulance driver chose to drive down that street on his way to the Mammoth Hospital, which was a few blocks away. Colby was the fortunate beneficiary of that choice.    

When the ambulance arrived on the scene, Colby showed no signs of life. Tom’s efforts were the only thing keeping blood and oxygen going to Colby’s brain. As soon as the ambulance crew arrived, they immediately recognized Tom and followed his instructions to cut off Colby’s clothes, inspect for injuries, and defibrillate his lifeless body.     

After several unsuccessful attempts with the defibrillator, Colby’s heart rate resumed a somewhat-normal sinus rhythm. However, he did not regain consciousness at that time. He was not out of the woods yet. Following that, Colby was transported to Mammoth Hospital, placed in an induced coma, and then transported by Medevac to Washoe Medical Center in Reno, NV.     

At this time, Colby’s family was contacted. They were advised that Colby had been harmed in a severe accident and was not expected to recover. They were informed that he suffered brain damage and that if by some chance he managed to survive, he would never be the same and quite possibly would be a vegetable. They were warned to not have any expectation of recovery.    

The word spread quickly! Everyone was notified, and they prepared for the worst. Tom and Marion were asleep in their camper at Khan’s Malibu ranch and were awoken by Khan. Before Khan had a chance to tell them anything, Tom said, 'Colby was injured. Is he going to survive?'     

Tom had been shown in a dream what happened and awoke to find it a reality. Marion was furious that they had come down to visit him, and he had left to go on a snowboarding trip with friends. But, her anger came from a sense of desperation and incredulity, more than anything else. While she was obviously frustrated, more than anything, she was concerned and afraid. They had already lost Rhiannon – would they lose Colby too?!    

However, the neurosurgeon on-call was not satisfied with the initial doctor’s conclusions. She performed a deeper diagnostic to understand the nature of the brain trauma Colby’s suffered. After numerous rounds of imaging were completed, she diagnosed that the most urgent issue he had was a blood clot on the left frontal lobe of his brain. The doctor performed an emergency left frontal craniotomy to relieve a subdural hematoma, which then enabled Colby’s recovery.    

The brain damage involved the 'brain bounce' phenomenon, wherein the impact on one side of the head results in brain damage on the opposite side of the brain. It is caused by the impact of the brain on the inside of the skull. Colby’s head was struck on his left side, but the right frontal lobe of his brain had been compressed against his skull, resulting in brain loss and damage to his right frontal lobe, as well as the blood clot on the left frontal lobe.     

Interestingly, notwithstanding that his left side had taken the impact, apart from the blood clot on the left frontal lobe, it appeared to be undamaged. However, he would never be the same again. Damage to the right frontal lobe is known to cause significant personality changes, and Colby was no exception.    

However, all of that is purely academic. It can all be explained by kinetics and neurology. From Colby’s perspective, there was a lot more to this story. What Colby experienced was much more meaningful than understanding the exact specifics of how he was injured. However, it is notable that the nature of his brain injury (right frontal lobe damage) corresponds in part with what was shared with him by a heavenly being on the other side.    

As Colby saw it, at the moment his body was hit by the car, his consciousness was separated from his body. He felt a tremendous ripping feeling that occurred across his entire body. It was like the feeling of a Fruit Roll-Up being torn off its backing very rapidly, and to Colby it even seemed like it sounded that way.    

Immediately after that sensation, he felt himself pass through the vehicle and could sense the fear and panic of its occupants! At the moment his face plunged into the window (leaving a massive dent in the shattered glass), the four occupants of the car immediately recognized him and didn’t know what to do. They were utterly stunned in disbelief!    

Right after that, they were covered and somewhat blinded by a shower of tiny glass particles from the inner layer of windshield glass shattering. This made them completely panic! They felt the urge to flee!    

They knew what had happened, who they hit, and realized they were in massive trouble because they were all drinking and on multiple narcotic drugs. They did the only thing that made sense to them at the time. They decided to make a run for it.     

One of them said, 'Go! Go! Go!' and with that, the driver stomped on the gas and sped out of there. The driver (Mika) was the son of a well-known 'has-been' celebrity that lived in Malibu.     

Mika and his brother Chester were frequently in trouble with the law, and Mika hoped that his father could help him get out of this situation, just like in times past. With that, the car that hit Colby was on its way out of there.    

Colby’s consciousness started chasing the car, but he only got as far as where his body lay motionless on the ice-covered road. Colby stood over his twisted body that was lying on the ground bleeding, realizing that he was dead.     

It was obvious to Colby that his body was very badly injured. He suspected that this was going to be it for him. He quickly looked around and wondered what fate awaited him.    

Colby saw people start to gather around his body, but none of them did anything. They just stood there and watched him die. Then, Tom ran out of his house, made everyone step away, and then started working on Colby. This went on for a very long time, and Tom wasn’t having any success. Colby’s concern grew with each passing moment that he probably wasn’t going to make it out of this one. That was it! He was dead! There was no coming back!    

With that, Colby started walking down the street and was intensely thinking about his situation. He immediately noticed several things about himself. He looked down at his hands, arms, legs, and the rest of his body. He observed that he looked like he did just before he died. He was even wearing the same clothes. He put his hands together and realized he could feel his own hands. He touched his face and ran his fingers through his hair. He appeared to look about the same as he had been before the accident. What he perceived as his soul had mass and resembled his body.    

However, there were some very notable differences, as well. To begin with, Colby was now completely sober, and he felt healthier and better than he had ever felt in his life. He could sense it was cold outside, but he did not feel cold. He could see his spirit body, but he could also see through it. It was like he had a body, but not really. Most importantly, his consciousness was still his own. Colby was still Colby, and he had all of his memories and more.    

Most notably, he realized that he was still himself and that his consciousness and memories were completely separate from his body. He was also aware of memories and knowledge he did not know of in life. He now remembered important plans, objectives, promises, and other commitments that he had made and had not yet accomplished. His mind was filled with knowledge!    

All of this started coming back to him in a flood that somehow he was able to keep up with, due to his tremendously enhanced mental capacity. He could remember and understand it all simultaneously. He remembered so many actions he had yet to do. He remembered relationships he had with loved ones before this life, most of which he had not yet known in his lifetime, but which he had been foreordained to know at some future point. There had been a whole life planned out for Colby that he had never lived up to.    

All of this hit Colby incredibly hard. He had made plans with family and friends and been given a mission to complete before his mortal life began (AKA pre-existence). His life was intended to fulfill this mission, not facilitate an endless party. It was all so clear to him, and he understood every part of it and grieved the loss of it. He knew that it was an incredibly important mission. Many people depended on him, and only he could do it.     

The enormity of his situation kept hitting him harder and harder. It was as if the fate of many souls depended on Colby being successful with their planned objectives. Very important people and plans depended on him, and he failed! He knew it! He had not done as promised and had not accomplished any of what he was supposed to have done! All of the promised work was as of yet in his future, and that future no longer existed. The door had closed!    

He could see it all very clearly and lamented at how the magnificent plan for him and his loved ones (past, present, and future) had been frustrated by his negligent actions. Now the work would be left for others to do, if they could be made aware of it and had time. Colby was shown that many people (including those living, dead, and yet unborn) would suffer because of his failures.     

Moreover, things would now be different and somehow reorganized. Colby would now be excluded from this plan. Steps would be taken to adjust and help the others who had depended on him and who would otherwise be negatively impacted.     

Colby’s heart sank as he realized his failure, the tremendous negative impact on himself and others, and that he had no hope. He felt the pains of a damned soul and pleaded with the Lord for a way out of this situation, but he felt no relief!    

He remembered all of the promptings and guidance he had been given and how God had intervened so many times in his life. He lamented that not only had he not done the important work he was sent to perform, he had not even followed through on the prerequisite tasks required to begin the work.     

He recalled how it had been so clearly spelled out for him by the Holy Spirit, and it was even taught to him by his paternal Grandmother (Dolores) when he was a child. He could clearly see the moment he was taught the truth at ten years old, and it had stuck with him ever since. However, he had never decided to act upon it.    

This happened when he came to stay with Tom and Marion in the summer for a few weeks before he moved to Hawaii. Colby had heard something at the church that disturbed him greatly, and he ultimately sought Wisdom from Dolores over the issue.     

Tom and Marion attended the Assemblies of God (AOG) church in Lewiston, Idaho and Colby went with them when he was living with them. One day, the pastor taught that everyone throughout time who had not accepted Jesus Christ and not been baptized would go to hell.     

He further taught that this was why the congregation needed to help them fund their missionary efforts to non-Christian countries. The pastor emphasized that millions or even billions of people over time all went to hell, simply because they never knew of and accepted Jesus Christ as their Saviour and Redeemer and had not been baptized. The pastor continued that it was up to them in this congregation to save the current and future generations. This could only be accomplished by funding the AOG missionary effort.     

This concept really bothered Colby! It felt completely wrong, but at the time, he did not have anyone he felt that he could talk to about it. A few days later, when he was visiting his father, Alan, he was taken down to the family company where Alan worked. As always, Alan’s idea of spending time with Colby was simply to have him around wherever he was at.    

Dolores could tell that something was bothering Colby, and she took him to McDonald's for lunch. She asked what had made him so disturbed and brooding.     

Colby was anxious to talk to someone who could speak to religion with a fresh perspective. He told her what the AOG paster had said and asked her if she believed that all those people would go to hell and if that was fair.     

She said, 'You know what, Colby? That is a really good question!'    

Dolores then shared the knowledge of the three degrees of glory (telestial, terrestrial, and celestial), as well as the concept of baptisms for the dead, both of which are revealed in 1 Corinthians, Chapter 15 of the Bible. As Dolores explained it to him, he knew the things she shared were true. It rang like a bell in his heart and soul, but he did not understand what that feeling was at the time.    

He also recalled being very moved by that special feeling they had in their home and the pure joy that she, grandpa, and many of his cousins, aunts, and uncles radiated. He didn't know what it was, but he knew it was good. He also knew that he didn't have it, nor did he understand where it came from. It was a mystery, but he didn’t know how to ask about it.    

After that, whenever he would pray, he knew through that 'ring like a bell' feeling that there was greater truth in what he knew only as the Mormon Church. He also knew through words and concepts that came from that same source that he was supposed to join the Mormon Church.    

However, he did not pursue it further as a child, as there was so much conflict about the church with other family members, all of which he later understood was just anti-Mormon propaganda and nonsense. Long story short, good and well-intending people had a misunderstanding of the church, and Colby allowed it to get in the way of doing what he knew was right.     

However, that was no excuse! He should have followed up on it. Moreover, later, when he was an adult, he did not pursue it either. He could have at any time. There was nobody stopping him at this point but himself. The reason for this was that from what he knew of the church, there were too many rules that he was not willing to abide. He was having too much fun in his lifestyle and didn’t want to change. Excuses were easy, change was hard, and denial was rampant.    

While it is true that he also had a lot of lingering doubts or questions about doctrine, those were more excuses than real concerns. It was easy to justify not making profoundly difficult changes in his life based on convenient excuses or silly, unfounded prejudices that are common in anti-Mormon doctrine.    

However, he never forgot it and always intended to follow the instructions one day! But, each day, he knew he was getting further and further away from what he knew he had been guided to do. At this point, Colby’s life had come completely off the rails, and he had gone exactly the opposite direction from which he had been guided. But the truth Dolores taught him all those years ago was always right under the surface, and he could not deny it.     

Colby’s consciousness walked back and stood over his dead body, watching Tom continue to try and resuscitate him. He considered all of the bad decisions he had made since Rhiannon’s death of cancer. He had made a lot of bad choices and did so many things he swore he would never do. None of his excuses mattered at this point.     

Notwithstanding all of the challenges and obstacles he started out life with, he knew he had been given everything he needed to be successful. He had a 185+ IQ he was not using, except to find new and interesting ways to get in trouble. He was highly skilled at perception and reading people, but he only used it to piss people off. He had also been given innovative ideas, instinct, and knowledge of future events, but most of the time, he didn’t act on it. It didn’t matter that he started off life with nothing, he was given access to everything he needed to make himself successful, and he had not used it.    

But most importantly, Colby found himself standing there, looking at his lifeless body on the icy roadway, and remembering what he knew about the religious truth shared with him by Dolores. He could not shake his complete failure to satisfy the mission he was given and promises he made in the pre-existence that he had not accomplished and feared he never would.     

It was at this point that he fell to his knees and cried out to the Lord for help. He knew that he was absolutely powerless to change his situation, and only the Lord could save him. The knowledge of how many people he had disappointed and the weight of his soul-crushing failures were too much for him to bear.     

In this moment of desperation, he thought of all the times the Lord had saved him in the past. He felt ashamed to be in these circumstances, but he knew what to do. In that moment, Colby put all his faith and focus on communicating with Him, who is the only one that can save! Suddenly, he didn’t feel alone or desperate.    

Just then, he was taken from that place and did not clearly remember what happened for a period of time. He only knows he was taken away somewhere and received instruction. He vaguely recalls that he met with various beings and was shown powerful truths. However, he can only remember that this knowledge was intentionally held back for a time, but would be restored later.     

The next thing Colby remembers is being released by the beings that held him. He had made commitments and had been granted another chance, but he was told things would be very different. He would not be able to return to his life the same way as it had been. Colby himself would be different. He would not be the same, feel the same, or act the same.     

He was told he would have even more challenges to overcome, but that he would be able to do it. Moreover, he would have help. He was told that he would never be alone and that he would have a companion to guide him. The last thing he was told was that time was short and that he needed to find the Lord’s church (CJCLDS) and develop a relationship with Jesus Christ. Colby knew exactly what all of that meant and agreed.    

Immediately after that, he returned to his body. It was just after brain surgery when his body lay in the recovery room. He descended upon it from above and entered into his forehead. At that exact moment, he was being cleaned by a medical assistant, who was washing him with a warm, wet cloth.     

The first thing he noticed was that he was having a hard time orienting which direction was up. When he first entered his body, it seemed as if he were standing up against a bed that was attached to the wall, and the medical assistant was standing horizontally on the wall. Colby was trying to figure how the medical assistant was able to do this and also how Colby himself was able to stand up while he was asleep in bed. It was so strange he couldn’t understand it! Suddenly, his sense of equilibrium returned, and it was as if reality flipped on its side, and he finally realized that he was actually lying down with the medical assistant standing over him.    

At that point, things began to make more sense, and he started to feel his body. It was very cold and uncomfortable. As his ability to feel increased, he realized he was in incredible pain. Everything hurt, and he was in agony. It hurt so bad, he felt nauseous.     

One of the worst parts about this was that he had been intubated and had a tube down his throat. He was unable to say anything or ask for assistance, aside from waving his arms. He started trying to pull the tube out of his mouth.  This was met with an immediate, startled response from the medical assistant, who told him to relax while he slowly and methodically removed the intubation tube.     

Colby’s throat was very sore, but he managed to get a few words to the medical assistant. All he could manage to say was 'I am in pain,' in a weak, labored plea for help. The medical assistant stepped away to get Colby help. As Colby waited, he felt his head and face to discover he had long blonde hair on the right side of his head and shaved skin on the left. He felt his forehead and found 26 staples just above where the hairline would have been.    

The nurse came to Colby’s room and brought a phone with her. 'There is someone who wants to talk to you!' she said excitedly. Marion was on the phone and wanted to talk to Colby and know he was alright. Colby was very drugged and tired, but he managed to tell her that he was OK and that he thought he was hit by a car, but was not entirely sure what was happening to him. Marion kept frantically asking him questions hoping for confirmation that he would be fine, and the nurse finally took the phone away and told Marion it was time for Colby to get some rest.    

They put Colby back in a coma for several days to allow him to heal, before he started moving again. He awoke to find himself in a hospital room in Reno, NV, when a nurse came to check on him.     

It all came rushing back to him at that point. He remembered the haunting feeling that he should not have gone to Mammoth in the first place and the subsequent warning that came in the form of an imminent, undeniable sense that he would not return home. He also recalled the final warning that if he decided to go out that he needed to leave his keys and money in a place where his friends could find them – he would not be returning.    

He could not shake the sense that he had been warned and could have avoided all this, but he did not listen. This was all on him. He really needed to start listening to that voice or prompting, if he ever had another chance to receive it again.    

He was haunted by the undeniable foreknowledge of this event. Where had this come from? It wasn’t the first time. He had been warned many times throughout his life with foreknowledge of events. Sometimes they came in dreams; sometimes they appeared in visions; sometimes they manifested in sudden feelings or echoes of the immediate future that came to at unpredictable moments.     

But, none of this was controllable by Colby. He was the unwitting recipient and sometimes beneficiary of these messages. These warnings always came according to the terms of an intelligence he did not understand, according to their own will, and they were beyond Colby’s ability to control or even influence.     

Most importantly, he remembered the stern warning that he received from the unearthly being right before he re-entered his body. It was unforgettable and has stayed with him continually ever since. 'His life would be different. He would be different. He would not be allowed to live as he once had. He needed to join the Lord's church and develop a relationship with Him. He would have additional help and guidance.' After waking, Colby was no longer sure what this all meant, but he knew he would soon find out.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1/1/1993  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I was a pedestrian hit by a speeding car on the icy streets of Mammoth, CA on New Years 1993. This resulted in a massive head injury and instant death. This event was witnessed by a first responder that lived in an adjacent house who quickly administered CPR until an ambulance arrived about 10 minutes later and defibrillated me. I was later air-lifted to Reno, NV for brain surgery (left-frontal craniotomy) to relieve a subdural hematoma.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw what was happening around the area of my body. I remember leaving my body and passing through the vehicle that hit me and being aware of the thoughts and emotions of those in the vehicles, as well as the people standing around my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was aware of more when I was out of my body than when I am inside of it. Also, during the NDE, I had memories of events before my birth and plans and promises made to people I have not known in my life.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right after I was hit by the car, before I was transported away from that place.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed irrelevant and the activity on the other side seemed to take a very long time, but I was not actually dead that long.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had good vision prior to the accident and my vision during my NDE was also clear. After the accident my vision degraded somehow due to the head injury and I needed glasses. But, I fixed that through Lasik.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was expanded beyond audible sounds and I could hear or observe the thoughts of those who were around.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     None were described by name, but at the time I knew who they were. The only one I can clearly remember now was Jesus Christ. But, there were many others whose identity is now shrouded from me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I was taken from the place where I died to some other place that was unearthly, but it is shrouded from my recollection. I just know there were great many people there debating what was to be done about me as my death had derailed a lot of plans.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       fear, desperation, and then peace, relief, and joy after I reached out the Lord with all my faith  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I had very detailed understandings of past promises and plans made with others, the Lord's plan for me, and how I had failed. I also had tremendous understanding and compassion of others as I could feel or hear their thoughts and emotions. I had a broader understanding of the universe and could easily get answers to questions, but I was not focused on that. I was preoccupied with trying to figure out how to fix my situation.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     I had a clear understanding of my entire life and the opportunities I had passed to do the right things. I also knew of plans and promises made before I was alive for events I was obligated to do in my lifetime.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I was shown a plan for what I needed to do, but much of that is shrouded from me, but suddenly comes back at times when the events occur.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I considered myself to be a Christian of mixed religious background at the time, but I was not active in any church and had questions and doubts about organized religion.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have become much more devout in my faith and seek to serve the Lord in all things.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Mormon   I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, but I also continue to seek out information and truths in all religions and cultures in order to understand what others believe and to share the truths I know based on my unique religious, spiritual, supernatural, and near-death experiences.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had a protestant background with some other information about other religions, including different Christian churches, but also near- and far-Eastern religions and mysticism. I learned that I was required to join the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, which I only knew a little bit about and which was significantly hated by many of my family members, but was the church attended by some others in my family. The requirement to join the church and live the lifestyle was not at all in alignment with my ways at that time.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Too many to list. I am completely different now and seek daily to grow closer to the Lord as new information is revealed to me.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   At the point that I understood my dire circumstances and hopeless situation, I fell to his knees and cried out to the Lord for help. I knew that I was absolutely powerless to change his situation, and only the Lord could save me. The knowledge of how many people I had disappointed and the weight of my soul-crushing failures were too much for me to bear.   In this moment of desperation, I thought of all the times the Lord had saved me in the past. I felt ashamed to be in these circumstances, but I knew what to do. In that moment, I put all his faith and focus on communicating with Him, who is the only one that can save! Suddenly, I didn’t feel alone or desperate.  Just then, I was taken from that place and did not clearly remember what happened for a period of time. I only know I was taken away somewhere and received instruction. I vaguely recall that I met with various beings and was shown powerful truths. However, I can only remember that this knowledge was intentionally held back for a time, but would be restored later.   The next thing I remember is being released by the beings that held me. I had made commitments and had been granted another chance, but I was told things would be very different. I would not be able to return to my life the same way as it had been. I myself would be different. I would not be the same, feel the same, or act the same.   I was told he would have even more challenges to overcome, but that I would be able to do it. Moreover, I would have help. I was told that I would never be alone and that I would have a companion to guide me. The last thing I was told was that time was short and that I needed to find the Lord’s church (CJCLDS) and develop a relationship with Jesus Christ. I knew exactly what all of that meant and agreed.  Immediately after that, I returned to my body. It was just after brain surgery when my body lay in the recovery room. I descended upon it from above and entered into its forehead.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I am certain that Jesus Christ was there and it is not the only time I have seen Him.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was very aware of plans made in the pre-existence and people I had made them with who either lived in the past or would live in the future.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I recognized how quickly information would just come to me and I knew things I had no way of knowing, but that was not my focus. I was preoccupied with my situation and did not explore this much. I was just aware of it and used it minimally.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Jesus Christ is real and He is the Son of God that guides and influences events on Earth either directly or through delegates. Satan and his minion are also real and are constantly trying to harm those who seek Jesus.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was required for a special intent and allowances were made for me to return and to ensure I was successful. My mind and body were changed to provide a situation that would ensure I would stay on the path and I was given a close companion to assist, more like poke, prod, and nag, but it is for the best.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Yes - it is a test that is only as hard as we make it.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Yes, it is part of a cycle that keeps going. Past and future family members help the living during their mortal existence. Families are eternal help posterity and progenitors throughout the process, but have limits in affecting free-will.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     They are elements of the test and are either chosen or otherwise pre-determined to provide the needed experience. Moreover, they continue until the experiencers learn what they need to. The get more difficult each time the person fails. Learning early and making changes by choice is easier than having them drilled into you by brute force to make them undenaible.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     There is incredible love, compassion, and understanding on the other side and love is a key element of salvation and required lesson in life is to learn to love.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     As always I tested the Lord to see if I could return to my old way of life and I could not. I had experiences, feelings, and promptings that guided me on a path that leads ever-closer to the Lord. I have a combination of the Holy Spirit and what would best be described as a guardian angel to assist me.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have become more compassionate, patient, and loving.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is really hard to convey the depth of understanding and awareness I had during my NDE.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  The key lessons are engraved with fire on stone tablets in my mind, but some things that I will encounter or must do in the future are shrouded from mind until I run across the circumstances, at which point the memories are unlocked and I know what I need to know.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Very direct and undeniable guidance from the Holy Spirit where it is no longer the 'still small voice' that can be ignored. Also, I have had several visitations from guardian angel or other-worldly types to help guide me in my path. I have also had demonic interventions meant to distract or derail or harm me in my efforts. The closer I grow to God and His Son Jesus Christ, the closer evil comes to me and complicates my situation. But, the Holy Spirit is always there to guide and protect.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Calling out to the Lord in my desperation and Him immediately providing comfort and relief.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have gotten mixed reactions from people. To some it provides hope and others it incites fear. I wrote it and other related experiences in a fictional (but 99.9% true) setting under a fictional character. But, it is my story: https://www.amazon.com/Smacked-Light-Chased-Dark-Almost/dp/1957507098/ref=cm_cr_arp_d_product_top?ie=UTF8  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I tried to deny it, but I could not. It was real and continues to influence and guide my life 30 years later.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is as true now as it was then, but more of the items shrouded from me at the time I had it have been unlocked and I understand it better now than I originally did.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Only the constant presence of the Holy Spirit that seeks to guide me.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Learn to have compassion, love, and seek to do the Lord's will in all things and it makes it easier for you to accomplish His plan for you and it minimizes the negative impact on you that would be caused by trying to get you on-plan. Life is only as hard as we make it and seeking the will of the Lord makes it that much easier for Him to use  you to accomplish His will.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       reduce redundancy of questions       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1colby_c_nde.html