{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cody_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Cody S NDE 2427","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cody S NDE 2427  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cody S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						735  Cody S NDE  2427  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was driving down town with my friends. I wasn't paying attention and I went through a red light. Two cars slammed into me from the side. I hit my head on the steering wheel. Then I saw something bright. I looked up and saw a bright light and then I felt like I had no pain. Then I was flying through a tunnel and I kept on seeing flash-backs of my life. Then I knew I was dead. Then I was standing in a meadow. I looked around the meadow and someone was walking toward me. When they reached me, I noticed that it was my grandma. She came up to me and I said to her, 'Where am I?' She answered, 'You are in heaven, but you are not ready to die yet.' I asked her if I would ever follow my dreams but she said she couldn't tell me and then she was gone. I started to look for her. I could see flowers all over and animals where running but then it all started to fade away. I found myself in the hospital. My mom said that I had died. I told her the story and she believed me. That just happened two months ago. I got a new car. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 4 , 2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Other in a car  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Well I could pay more attention and I felt no pain and I felt happy.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the meadow.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was going through the tunnel and I kept on seeing flash-backs of my life.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were in a field or meadow it was my grandmother and she told me I'm not ready to die yet.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was extremely bright.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     a buitifle meadow with floweres animals running  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No pain, that I would never be sad again.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Well I learned to pay attention when I'm driving and that way I can't get killed.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Lutheran  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Well walking through the meadow.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I really don't know.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The meadow I felt so happy there.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It's been maybe two months and none of them believe me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   It taught me to pay more attention and watch what I do.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just viewed it as a near death experience because I know I had died.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed it as mostly a lesson about not acting stupid while driving.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Well at first I was scared.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes, did you see a family member?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cody_s_nde.html