{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cobina_c_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Cobina C Possible NDE 8027","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cobina C Possible NDE 8027  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cobina C Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4168 Cobina C Possible NDE 8027  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On a Saturday night, I was suffering from a fever of 106F.  I was prodded repeatedly in the lower abdominal area and simultaneously asked what drugs I have taken. An intern took my breath away each time he prodded me. At last, they gave my mom a prescription for some pills and said to have me seen by my physician on Monday. My mom did just that. I was watched over by a friend until Monday came. My mom somehow got me down two flights of stairs and into the car. I was seated on the exam table for a moment, but was hurriedly asked if I had a way to the hospital. My doctor was going to drive me there herself, but my mom took me. As soon as I passed through the doors, I lost consciousness. I was taken directly to the operating room where three doctors did the exploratory surgery and found me to be in a severe condition. They said my female organs were turned around backwards and infected.  Ultimately, my condition led to the removal of some intestines, my appendices, a tube and its ovary, and half of my remaining ovary. 
 
 I must have been upgraded from recovery because my experience happened in my private room where guests were allowed to visit. This is where my life changed. This is where I found it difficult to remark on what happened. I had no reference to compare this to or felt as if I would be taken seriously. I remember thinking what great pain I was in and how I wanted it to stop because I couldn't take it anymore. 
 
 Then the pain stopped. I felt whole and free of the weight of all my senses. I sat up on the side of the bed and then was on my feet. I walked about three steps toward the wall, turned around, and looked at the bed I left. The bed was not empty. I was in it and as still and white as the sheets that covered me. I then looked behind the bed and saw some monitoring machines. I wasn't scared. I remembered at that time that I was not in pain and was not hungry.  I did not need to rely on breathing. I felt light and happy. I looked down and noticed that I was not touching the floor. At that moment, I knew this was my chance to be free of the body that was in pain. I thought of my mom and family, but somehow knew she would be okay. I turned and walked toward the door. I opened it slowly and noticed it was like a dark closet. I seem to relate the darkness was a result of not being religious, but I was not concerned. Then I recalled my boyfriend's father was just trampled by a horse and wasn't expected to recover. I opened the door further and started to walk in, when I heard, in my head, a familiar voice saying to me, 'Stop! Go back you're not ready.' I have heard this voice many times prior to this event, which I won't talk about now. After this moderately deep masculine voice spoke, I said in my head, 'I can't leave Jan now, he couldn't take losing us both.' At that moment, I gasped for air and forced my glassy eyes open. Jan was at the end of the bed. I attempted to speak with him, so I could tell what just happened to me. He said,'s-h-h-h, I know, don't speak right now'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July.1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-related.       Other: Unwitnessed by hospital personnel  I was suffering from what I know now was sepsis involving my female anatomy.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was able to converse during this event. I usually just heard his voice in a cautionary fashion.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I suppose when I heard his voice at the door.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No different, was in color as normal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    More intense than before event.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     The voice spoke to me many times before. He has the same voice of the man that helped me select my parents. The voice that told me to cover up, since I was going to be thrown out of a truck bed along with other children. The same voice took over my car when I hydroplaned off a freeway, and many other events.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Freedom, healthy, fulfilled, but concerned for another's feelings.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     Yes, if you mean the difference before and after opening the door.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See Experience  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   My parents didn't involve my siblings and I in any religious activities. My mom would say she was leaving the decisions of beliefs up to each of us. My dad spent his youth wanting to be a minister, but ended up salesman who was an alcoholic, gambler, and woman chaser.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Just very spiritual.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   Spiritual

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I didn't know much about religion because I always thought the bible stories were embellished, so the churches could fill the baskets with money.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I did not see the person, just heard him.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I seem to be sensitive to thoughts in a crowd.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I learned someone out there knew what I was doing all the time.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I related it to a guide instead of GOD.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   At the time, I felt it was knowledge that I still needed to gain.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Love

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I know for there is life before and after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Much information

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     This is the key to life.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     More spiritual. Although it was not an instant change of compassion, it grew more intensely throughout the years.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I find that I don't want to be around anyone who is the slightest bit negative.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the  experience. I remember the event like it happened ten minutes ago unlike where I was living at the time it happened. I have moved all my life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seem to be able to know instinctively what people are thinking and if they are good or bad. I also just think to myself of something I need at the time, and behold, it pops right out in front of me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just that the voice is always comforting when I hear him.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In short details, with my mom

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I couldn't have made up such a crazy event if I tried.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even more so today, since the Internet has been here, it has given me more insight into others' events.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not now

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask more of what type of lifestyle people were living at the time of the event.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cobina_c_possible_nde.html