{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1clive_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Clive H NDE 9682","mylang":"de"}
          	        Clive H NDE 9682  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Clive H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5221 Clive H NDE 9682  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was 19 and working for a dairy farmer. After the morning milking, the farmer, his 13-year old son, and I were attempting to catch some piglets who had escaped their pen. I missed the piglet and landed heavily on my chest.  The blow  made my heart start missing beats.   

  Prior to this episode I had experienced the occasional missed hear beats, been tested via ECG, and been diagnosed as having no problems with my heart. 

  I was squatted down and feeling my pulse in my wrist;  feeling the beats and the gaps. Then I felt no beats. I have no further memory, but apparently I stood up, announced that my heart had stopped, and then fell over. The farmer later said I had no heart beat and no breathing for between 2-1/2 to 3 minutes. Previously, he had been at two deaths of relatives on bedside watch. He said that I made the same death-rattle as they did.

  I found myself standing alone on an unfamiliar landscape. I was feeling very calm, content, and curious. The landscape was not flat, but gently rolling. Rock were exposed at the surface in fractured and weathered form. The vegetation was limited to a yellow-brown color.  There was low growing tussocks and lichens on the rocks.  The sky had a thin layer of clouds with an odd greenish-tinge on the horizon. I was puzzled by all this, yet I was very calm and relaxed.  I was wondering what caused green clouds. I could move, although I never tried to take a step. In gazing about, my head and torso were mobile.

  It's always been difficult to put a timespan on this, I don't know how long I was gazing about. I would take a guess at 20 to 30 seconds. Though that could be very wrong. 

  As I stood, I realised I could no longer move.  Within a  few seconds, the ground began to move in a semi-circle about 8 meters in front of me. The rock lifted up, revealing itself to be 6 or 7 thick-set elephant-like beasts.  They didn't have trunks or ears. Needless to say, I was terrified and still locked in place. These aggressive, elephant-like beasts started walking toward me.  Each step was more like a stomp, very noisy and made the ground shake. They got 4 steps closer to me before I woke up.  I was so terrified, I lashed out and hit the farmer giving me CPR.  

  In hindsight, it's hard to believe such a transition would not at first induce at least mild panic. Yet, at the time I was as relaxed as I have ever been. I never felt threatened in the beginning.  I was alone and never felt any other presence than the rock creatures. A few years later I had a pacemaker fitted due to Sick Sinus Syndrome, an electrical generation problem.   

  About 23 years after this incident, when asleep I found myself back in the same landscape. A friend who had been dead for a decade, came walking towards me.  He looked great, happy and relaxed.  He grasps my shoulders and tells me not to worry about him, he's doing fine. I was speechless. The dream had the same hyper-real feel as the NDE.    
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 December 1990  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.      CPR given   Heart stopped, sinus node problems.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Cleaner,  crisper more real. Like an early morning in early summer after a rain, everything is clean and vibrant with an extra level to it somehow. That's my closest in real life comparison.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From start to finish, no change.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Do you mean  eyesight? If so very crisp during, need glasses in real life!  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal. Or maybe I didn't notice, plenty of distraction..  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Rocks come to life in the form of elephant like creatures.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Does green clouds on the horizon count?  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Unfamiliar landscape, no signs of mankind, a peneplain old eroded down landscape,  lots of exposed rock with only lichen and short tussock for vegetation. This went on to the horizon.  
  
  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Contentment and curiosity to begin, then  terror to end it.  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was 19, not yet fully formed, it maybe exaggerated somethings and damped down others. The main thing was not the nde but the fright of maybe almost dieing! Life is  short kind of thing.  

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   No voices.  About  6 elephant-like creatures, without trunk or ears. They rose from the ground and were rock themselves. Arose form the ground in a semicircle about 8 meters in front of me. In unison they took steps toward me, 4 steps. Then I woke.  Terrified.  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.      I'm not entirely sure but maybe it's why I have a pretty casual attitude to life, I just enjoy! At 19 I was still growing up.  I'm pretty sure it's made me less conventional and  happier to do my own thing and not be a herd creature.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It's probably no surprise that I remember something as vivid and out of the ordinary so well.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I've twice received electric shocks off human bones I've accidentally picked up, not realizing what they were till after I'd dropped them.   One other bone piece I found and was uncertain what animal it was off, took it home to do some research. That night in a dream I was forcibly told to 'put me back' by an angry young British fellow. I was living in an alpine tourist town where hikers easily came to grief and bodies were not always found. I found that bone in a stream draining the area where a young Male  British trapper had gone missing several years before.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't have good recall on talking to others and how long it took, never been hung up on the experience. People are interested and have a positive attitude,  mind you I probably selected who I told.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just pop culture stuff.   No.  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Hyper real, still is 33 years later.  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Still very real.  Why? You'd have had to have been there with me to fully comprehend why it's still very real. The memory does seem different to other memories. As though it was made differently and stored differently  

  At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In a dream i was in the same landscape with the same feelings when a good friend who had been dead a decade walked up to me and assured me that he was OK. Looked happy and content. Woke up real quick, good feeling to have, very intriguing.            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1clive_h_nde.html