{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1clark_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Clark B NDE 2008","mylang":"de"}
          	        Clark B NDE 2008  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Clark B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						487  Clark B NDE  2008  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I did not have the 'tunnel experience' many others have had. I was hovering over my family. I knew I was dead and felt guilty that my wife and children were crying over me while I was feeling so good. I wanted them to be dead with me and tried to let them know I was fine. As far as my body was concerned, it was like a discarded old shoe.

I was also given up for dead at birth. My aunt was in the delivery room. Because my mother had so much trouble having my brother, she was not supposed to have any more children. So by accident, I came along four years later. The doctors tried their best to talk my mother into having an abortion. Her faith said it was God's will and that she would have me. She had a condition where her skin did not stretch properly. She had to lie on her back in a motel by the hospital the last six weeks of her pregnancy. Knowing there may be delivery problems three doctors and an intern were there for the delivery. They did not know it was impossible for my mother to give birth naturally since her pelvic bones were solid like a man's. When the doctors finally decided to go c'sarian, while making the first incision, my mother's stomach completely ripped open. She was hemorrhaging blood and my aunt said I was like a greased pig. The doctors had trouble getting me out. When I was finally out, I would not respond. I was laid aside. The doctors decided to concentrate on saving my mother. Fortunately for me six hands was all that could work on my mother, So the intern came around the table and picked me up and started to give me mouth to mouth. I owe my life to that.

Seven days after my electrical accident, another man in Texas was electrocuted and killed by the same high voltage power lines. His wife's feet had to be amputated due to the burns she received trying to pull him loose of the wires.

In 1958, while eighteen I had a serious farm accident. To this day, I do not know how I came out of it with only a slight cut on my knee and some bruises. I fell off a tractor and was pinned by the tractor's tire while pulling a one-way. Seven days later a neighbor was killed the same way.

I believe God has missions for people. I also believe we who have had near death experiences are messengers from God to let people know not to fear death and to conduct their life as if they were to die the next day. In effect, live a good life so that you know you will go the right way.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February, 1966  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       High voltage electrical shock  7200 volts / 80 amps  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Electrocution.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      I do not believe so. However, what I felt was entirely different. It was as if all animal instincts were gone. I was a pure loving spirit.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was out of my body, I was the most conscience and aware of what was going on. When I was sucked back into my body is when things did not click. I suffered from partial amnesia for about three months. My short-term memory was not functioning very well. I might have a conversation with someone a half hour earlier and not know I had had it. It was like leaky RAM in a computer. The fixed disc functioned fine, but the RAM kept loosing data.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I had no idea what year or month it was.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I did see a light in the distance. I was like in the movie Pat Boone was in 'Journey to the Center of the Earth' where at the end they got into a huge stone dish and the lava shot them out of the volcano. When I started to come back to consciousness it was as if I were way back in my eyeball and I was being drawn up to the light which, as it got bigger, was the ceiling of the emergency room. After a few questions by whoever was working on me, I started to sink back into the 'hole' in my eyeball. The next thing you know I am back out of my body watching them work on me. Then I do not remember anything until I come to in the Intensive Care Unit. I am like a new born baby on my stomach and can hardly hold my head up. A good looking black nurse is spreading something that looks like Vaseline all over my burns. When she sees me, she says, 'Well, Hello Ben Franklin!' Since my birthday is January 1940, I can determine my age by subtracting forty from the year. She thought I was putting her on when I asked her what year it was. When she told me 1966 I knew I had told the people in the emergency room the wrong age since I said I was twenty-four. I also had to ask her for the date because I had no idea what season it was.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure love, peace, satisfaction, and joy. Guilty and sadness that my family was not dead to share what I was feeling.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     When I was electrocuted I did not. But while pinned by the tractor my whole life did flash before me.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Disciples of Christ  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have to be a messenger to people who fear death. Also, I sense I have been given material wealth not for myself but with which to do well and help others live good lives. Material wealth is not important. My sole aim is what I have to perfect and live the life God wishes me to live and do what he wants me to do.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My wife and I ended up getting divorced. She was materialistic and wanted to be a party girl. When we divorced, she said I was more like her father that a husband.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I saw one future event that I do not want to disclose.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The main thing is the loss of the fear of death. I now look forward to it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I would only talk about this with my mother. I did not tell my wife or others until out of body experience books started to be written. I did not want people to think I was crazy.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was afraid I was experiencing a mental breakdown. Therefore, I had to keep it a secret. I was also worried at the time that my heart had been damaged and I was worried that I would not be there to bring my children up.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now, knowing that others have had similar and even more extensive experiences, I have digested the event and have understood better my mission in life.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I did not have a very extensive near death experience as others I have read about.  One thing I forgot to add was at the time of the accident, I worked for General Electric (GE). A week after the accident the company doctor called me up and wanted to talk to me. When I went to his office, he told me that he was amazed that I was there. You see, when a GE employee dies or is thought to be dying, the hospital calls a doctor to verify the death so that company insurance can be promptly paid to the survivors. He told me that they had filled out my death certificate except for the time of passing and their signatures. He thought I would be dead by the time he drank a cup of coffee. He told me I just wouldn't die. He had waited over four hours before they decided I might pull through. Not knowing all of this and worried about getting back to work, I am the only person that I know of that was dismissed from a hospital directly from Intensive Care after two days. When I went back to work, I knew after ten minutes, I should not be there. Fortunately, it was Friday and my setup men ran the shift for me and covered up my partial amnesia for the next three months. I could figure out (make out the day's work plan) what models of air conditioners we needed to build but I could not carry it out. My setup men saw to it that the right models were built as I had planned.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1clark_b_nde.html