{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1claire_nde.html","mytitle":"Claire NDE 935","mylang":"de"}
          	        Claire NDE 935  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Claire NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						415  Claire NDE  935  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When the epidural anesthesia was injected, everything went well then I began to be overcome with a feeling or warmth or a malaise. I said to the nurse that I didn't feel very well, that I had the feeling to go down in my body, from the head down to the feet. She checked my blood pressure, everything was normal. During this time, my husband went out. And suddenly, I kept telling her that I felt very bad, she didn't hear me, she said to her colleague, 'She is going away. Her pressure blood is at level six and is still decreasing.'


My body temperature was below thirty-four and I didn't stop telling her, 'I'm telling you that I feel bad but you don't believe me I realized that she didn't hear what I was telling her. At this point of time, I ended up going through something thick. Then I felt attracted by a light glow. But the more I went forward, the more I saw a kind of arc of circle surrounding me like arms protecting me.


I started to feel anguished. I did not know where I was going but if I lowered my head, I could not see anything. I had the feeling of floating. I was afraid and the more I went forward the more the light became big and hot. Then, without seeing anything, I heard a small voice telling me, 'Don't be afraid, keep you floating.' And I think I saw my grandmother and I felt well, there. Then I heard a voice telling me, 'You do not have anything to do here today.' Just at this moment, I said, 'MY BABY!' and I felt as if I was thrown against a wall. And I yelled so much, I suffered atrocious pains in all my members, my body, all my head. I didn't understand what happened to me but I had the feeling to go up from my feet up to my head. The nurse told me, 'Now you are better.' I asked her why she made me come back, and she asked me, 'From where?' And I told her, 'From over there.' Then the other nurse went out and asked me where I had gone. I told her, I entered a tunnel and described exactly what she had said and done, but she said to me that it was impossible because I fell into a state without any reflexes at that point of time. But anyway, she seemed to be surprised and said to me, 'If I have time, I'll come back to discuss about it.' I have never seen her again. But at the time when my husband came back, I got into a panic. For me, all that lasted for only two or three minutes, but at this moment, I learnt that he had been waiting outside for more than fifty minutes. (I was really out of time.)

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    le 06 juillet 1990

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Childbirth    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt all the sufferings coming from my being but without being in my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very well and felt as lucid as I feel when I stand up.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed to me that I was floating very fast and that all this has been very quick.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Only some voices.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I crossed something very thick to finally end up in an arched tunnel.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I did not see my grandmother clearly but I know that was her smile and her hands.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   An intense and almost dazzling gleam giving also the feeling of warmth, as if you faced to the sun during hot season but without any burning.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Feelings of malaise then of well-being with some fear.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was very afraid of death but now, after this experience I never felt this fear any more. Before I was frightened by seeing a deceased, now I have no fear anymore.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I heard a cordial voice saying to me, 'You do not have anything to do here today.' And at this moment I realized I had to finish what I had to do and that I had to go back to give birth to my child. Nevertheless, at the same time, I felt upset to be obliged to leave.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believed when it was suitable for me to believe. Now, I believe to what I have deeply inside me, to the other side that exists after us, that if we are here, it's not only due to luck that we have something to do. I believe in God and in beings around me. I don't believe in all those people who teach religion.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   People look at you with big and astonished eyes as if you are crazy.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Sometimes I guess some events, not always but sometimes, only concerning some relatives. And if before I was very immature in some situations, now I don't make any more mistakes about people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best is this feeling of being light, of floating, of warmth and well-being. But the worst is to come back and to feel my body suffering at the end of this experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    First, my family was very surprised but they believed me because later, I announced to them some events which really occurred. And in fact, they helped me to be aware of this. Other people have different and miscellaneous opinions about all this, but I always make rather discreet references to this experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      The words and the sentences are not enough but the more you write your experience, the more you live it again and the more you recall additional pictures. Anyway, it's a tremendous experience, despite this inner fear, it remains a huge experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No, this experience is not easy to live nor to describe. Even after sometimes, you still can't speak about it without having gooseflesh, not of fear but just of speaking about it. Words remains hard to pronounce. The questions will always remain unanswered!!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1claire_nde.html