{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cl_nde.html","mytitle":"CL NDE 22425","mylang":"de"}
          	        CL NDE 22425  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					CL NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2568 CL NDE 22425  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During major surgery on my kidney, the medical staff was unable to control bleeding, which caused my heart to stop.  Surgery was stopped in the attempt to resuscitate me.  All I can remember is thinking that I was dreaming.  At first, I was afraid that I had woken up during surgery and just couldn't move but I didn't feel any pain.  Then, I realized that I was in one of the corners of the operating room, floating there and watching the staff working.  I don't know how long that lasted but I eventually woke up in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for Heart Patients, drifting in and out of consciousness.  I found out a couple of days later what had happened.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death   Surgery being performed, uncontrollable bleeding caused heart to stop.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was under general anesthesia at the time but I can clearly remember floating in the operating room and watching the medical staff doing something.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Hard to say.  It's like being half asleep and half awake at the same time.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I did lose a lot of my memories.  I am still struggle to remember things that happened in the past which was not how I was before this experience.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I can't remember.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     In the beginning, right after the experience, I went through a very difficult time in my life.  I began to ask the question, ‘Why was I brought back to suffer?’  A few years later, I knew why when I met my husband.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have always had the gift of being shown through dreams that someone close to our family will pass away.  It has somewhat intensified since the experience.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I can't remember that part.  I do remember waking up to see a sign that said ‘Intensive Care Unit-Heart Patients’, tubes coming out of my mouth and nose, and my sister looking at me really sadly.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was just a feeling like I've never had before so it makes it difficult to explain in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst part was memory loss.  The best was being able to see a few years later. That’s why I came back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They were excited, and wanted to know more about the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to know if the memory loss is part of the experience.  I would like to know if anyone else has experienced this after OBE.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cl_nde.html