{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cj_nde.html","mytitle":"CJ NDE 430","mylang":"de"}
          	        CJ NDE 430  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					CJ NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1293 CJ NDE 430  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was stabbed and was to have emergency care. I went to the operating room.  I knew I was severely injured.  I was suddenly in a large room, no furniture, vacant, dimly lit. I noticed it did not smell musty like I thought it should, it seemed like a warehouse room. I knew I was to wait there.

I became aware of an arched castle-like doorway obliquely across the room from me. I was curious, not afraid. I went to the doorway. The walls were gray square stones, softly rounded, not sharp like concrete block, though rough to the touch like lighter gray mortar. The floor was stationary, the walls rotated slowly in a clockwise motion. A pale yellow light filled the tunnel - no source was noted, it was just there. As I came to the opening, I could see it was a long tunnel. The pale light became more golden the further down the tunnel you looked and was so bright at the far end it obscured further viewing. The light had a gentle friendly quality, it was non-threatening. I knew it was okay to go there if I needed to, I felt no fear.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 11,1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was stabbed and had potentially life threatening wounds.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was in the operating room. To me I seemed to be awake but confined to that room.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Just felt suspended in time. Knew that the outcome was not decided.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    A soft grinding/grating, like a mill-wheel as the tunnel rotated.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     It was there I just stood and looked down it, I did not step in though I knew I could.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt the presence but did not see any others.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, concern, wonder, peace, love.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt I was not alone, I felt I was being assisted.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I guess we all fear death. Now I know not to fear it. Now I am at peace with whatever happens to me, to those I love too - I know it is not random.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew I would not die.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The entrance to the tunnel, I did not go into the tunnel.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was nonverbally communicated that the damage had been repaired, that I was going back. I was relieved to know that the damage was repaired. The doctor had told me he was unsure prior to the surgery whether he could fix it or not.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More certain of God's grace and love.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was surreal.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Perhaps stronger than prior to the experience. But I have had gifts since at least age three.  I had an incident of automatic writing when a friend's child died, like a message from the child, it took the form of a poem - took only minutes to write.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best, the safety, lack of fear. Worst, being alone - I was not totally alone, I felt, but could not see, the others I sensed were there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I am not given to telling everyone. I tell those that are close and need to hear it for their situation. I have shared it with strangers who needed to know it too.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Dreams fade this is as real as the day it happened.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was stabbed in the first and the second intercostal spaces on the left. Bone was chipped off my clavicle. My left shoulder was separated by the blows. I did not ever pass out till I was medicated. I had such serenity. Just prior to being knocked out with the medication I suffered a mediastinal shift and told the anesthesiologist. My heart was pushed into my right chest by the massive hemorrhage in the left thorax. They took three and a half units of blood from my left chest in the operating room. I had approx. fifteen major vessels up to the size of the internal mammary severed.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Pre-events perhaps.  I recall going to work that day. The world was brighter. More colorful. The birds sang more sweetly. The smells of summer were everywhere. Everything was more vivid. I felt glad to be alive. Despite in the past being warned of danger I do not recall being warned. I missed it if it happened.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cj_nde.html