{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cj_l_nde.html","mytitle":"CJ L NDE 3371","mylang":"de"}
          	        CJ L NDE 3371  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					CJ L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1318 CJ L NDE 3371  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember most everything that happened when I walked into the emergency room. The people started rushing around; the charge nurse kept talking with me. I told her that I was tired and just wanted to close my eyes for a moment. She said not to do that or they would have to put tubes and such in places I wouldn't like, we all laughed nervously. I remember asking them to save my Rockies shirt! They did! A tech was going to insert a catheter tube. I remember closing my eyes and letting out a breath.

Then I found myself very alert thinking it doesn't sting, I felt very much at peace. It was dark and I could feel I was moving to my right, floating fast. I thought at first to yell echo, then thought it would be inappropriate. My next thought was, 'this is it!' I prayed the Lord's Prayer, and I don't remember the other prayer, I recall thinking, 'Now I get to sing!!' At that moment, I had a rush like when you fall in a dream. I was upset about being taken away from there! I sat up and looked around saying do you have heating pads under me it's hot take them out! It was the electricity from being shocked back. I know now that I (coded) on the table for about thirty seconds.

I was also told, I did not just close my eyes. I grabbed the nurse's arm and gave her a look they call the death stare! I let out a gasp and fell back on the table. I do recall at some time I could feel my left arm and right leg hanging off the table but I couldn't lift them, like I was not connected to them. I don't recall when that happened. Everything is different now! I'm glad to know I'm not alone in my experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/15/07

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All was the same, very alert.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All was the same, very alert.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Was very much at peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   nondenominational/Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Non-denominational/Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more tuned to other's needs.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have been very sensitive to other's feelings.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was a singer in Christian band many years ago, and I haven't done that in years. I believe now that I'm supposed to do that again here. Also I believe the sting of death was removed that is why I don't recall grabbing the nurse.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Person agreed that I was very sensitive, aware of people around me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just from seeing clips about it, heard a few stories. No, my experience was nothing like I would have imagined it to be.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know now that God is not finished with me yet and to enjoy every moment of life while I'm here. And to help others while I'm here. My life has more meaning now.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This is very fresh to me at this time and am happy to have this forum to be able to share my experience, I don't feel so alone, thank you.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cj_l_nde.html