{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cj_c_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"CJ C Possible NDE3646","mylang":"de"}
          	        CJ C Possible NDE3646  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					CJ C Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1650 CJ C Possible NDE 3646  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I reached the end of myself and was dying because of drug use. As I rose out of my body, the vibrations started to intensify. At first evil was all around. I went to the depths of despair and spiraled down to the pit and was completely broken at the bottom of hell. I then realized why I was there. I was not sent there by God. I had put myself there. I realized at which point in my life my security had given way and it was age five. I had to move to America and leave the security of my uncle who was like a father to me. I lost all security at that point. Later I leaned on God as much as I could and became support to my family and then my wife and kids. I was spiritually leading them. But I didn't love myself so I couldn't lean on anyone because I felt I didn't deserve it. Slowly I started to destroy myself by holding things in then got sick physically. Then I leaned on pain medication to hold me up.

In the pit, I realized that God is one and he stands as one. We are all an extension of God and if we don't stand as one we will fall. That's how the universe is connected. If we hurt those around us, we are hurting ourselves and we will fall. Because who will be our support when we need it? If we love others by first loving ourselves we are close to God and others. But if we hurt, hold bitterness, are unforgiving, hatred or any other thing against ANYONE we are going to destroy ourselves. Because we will keep the bitterness inside and it will make us physically sick and we'll eventually spiral down to the pit. If a person stands on food, drugs, money, sex, adultery or anything other than God or people, we are leaning on paper and will fall and eventually spiral down into the pit.

Then I said to myself by God's spurring, 'He (God) loves me, even me.' When this knowledge came, I knew I didn't have to be there any longer. I put myself there because I didn't believe God loved me so I didn't love myself. Now that I loved myself, I felt worthy of going higher. And God said to me the universe exists in perfect balance. When you are broken, he MUST put you back together again so the universe can make room for the next person who must break and realize they are loved. He showed me that in order to experience the Heights, one must experience the Depths as a balance and that the only safe straight line is the line of death. That's where the balancer or advocate waits to balance out the scales for everyone's life. Some people experience enough hell in life that they don't need to go there when death comes. But even the world has the strongest country and weakest. Cruel nation for kind ones and so is the balance of life as the molecule seeks balance also.

God reached out his hand and brought me up to the heights of heaven and made me realize why my life had been as it had and healed me. I heard angels sing and melodies beyond belief. Eternal melodies that start simple but can have instruments and voices added to them for infinity. I was able to remember three of these melodies and the words to one of the three songs. I know there is also much I forgot. I still know in my depths that God loves me and I love myself and am extremely amazed that I can love everyone around me so much, even strangers. I don't know how, all I know is that it is. My blood sugar also went from 330 to normal without insulin and my blood pressure went to normal and so my cholesterol and triglycerides and I can tell by the little anxiety I sometimes let in that my sugar and blood pressure are a little high and I could tell how high. The doctors monitoring me were all amazed by this. I realize that if a person is at perfect peace inside, he will be well outside. There are exceptions that have to do with destiny. I know sickness is spiritual not physical.

This is just the beginning. I will try to think positive and keep bad feelings out of me and not worry so I stay healthy and strong both emotionally and physically!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 4th 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Death from drugs.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No space no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Different like seeing without eyes as a certain knowing. Sometimes thoughts looked like words as well and were spelled out.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Many voices at once could be processed.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother who died and Jesus and God.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Cannot be described. It is life. The original of all life.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Heaven and hell and everything in between.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       All.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     But I only remember the highlights.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   But I believe quite differently

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     More reinforced. I realized that people view the Bible according to where they are at and don't understand what it really is saying. Bible is more a statement of fact as in jump you fall and nature of the universe.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   But I believe quite differently

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     More reinforced. I realized that people view the Bible according to where they are at and don't understand what it really is saying. Bible is more a statement of fact as in jump you fall and nature of the universe.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Explained above.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Can't help to love everyone.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Started writing everything that came to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, all.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The same day.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Reading your site and friends who have had them (two).

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Will never forget it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Will never forget it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cj_c_possible_nde.html