{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cinthia_nde.html","mytitle":"Cinthia NDE 910","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cinthia NDE 910  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cinthia NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						385  Cinthia NDE  910  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

This is difficult to explain. I experienced deep calmness, just as if I was somewhere else. It was earth, but also not. On the one hand, it did frighten me, but on the other hand, it did not, because it just felt good. I remember that I had conversations, but I cannot recall with whom. I wanted to stay here, because my life on earth was not so precious to me anymore -- here I had found peace. I had to come back and finish things off. I was promised that I would experience more prosperous times, but I did not want to go back and was angry with 'them'. This is also how I woke up -- being very angry. An angel next to my bed stayed with me until I was awake. I saw many energies around my bed. I could not see anything but colors. When I could open my eyes I was still very angry and upset, upset for being back on earth. I remained angry for quite some time.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    7-07-2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      buitenbaarmoederlijke zwangerschap was 3 mnd zwanger had 3 kwart liter bloed in me buik en een bloeddruk van 40 over 80.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Native American

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  This is part of my feeling. I had seen the doctors around my bed and I saw what they did with me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Was good.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I cannot really tell yet, but my feeling says tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     But I do not recall exactly. It was a male and a female. We discussed things I should still fulfill on earth and the fact that I could not stay there. Whenever I think about this, I still feel these emotions coming back.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I had mixed feelings. I wanted to get away from earth but also not. The urge to get away was strong.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     My own guide (guardian angel). According to me, this was man and woman.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Well, I have been told that there was a better time coming up for me and that I was allowed to do certain things.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I had to return. Could not stay there.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Very much. I strongly believe there's more after our world. That world stands closer to God and is encompassed with more honesty and real love.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feeling. Feelings you cannot explain with words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have certain extrasensory capabilities; I foresee things; I have extra-sensory feelings and knowledge; and am able to cure with my bare hands.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part is that I know now that there's only beauty after death, but the worst part is that I do not understand it all yet.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Yes, one should give more support and help on near death experiences. I have missed that.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I wouldn't really know. The only thing is on sensitivity, I would have liked to know more about this.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cinthia_nde.html