{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cinta_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Cinta J NDE 3997","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cinta J NDE 3997  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cinta J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1915 Cinta J NDE 3997  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was handing my partner a mug of tea when my teeth began to chatter and the next thing I knew, I was - somewhere else. No bright lights, no floating towards the light, I was just in another place, somewhere I'd always been. These people knew me and I knew them. I had no memory at all of any previous life. It was more real to me than anything else I'd ever experienced, but the most important thing was, that these people were so lovely. They were kind, funny, loving, and considerate. It was like having happiness running through your veins.

This life continued for years - and then I came round to find myself in a room I didn't recognize full of people. Some of them were wearing some kind of a uniform. I know now that these people were paramedics. I had a thumping great pain in my chest and no idea where I was, or who any of the people were - I thought I was in some kind of horrible nightmare. I couldn't imagine what I'd done that was so irredeemably wicked that I could be put in a place like this. One of the paramedics said, 'We thought we'd lost you for a couple of minutes there'.

Over the next few days, I began to put together some kind of a blueprint for who people were, but it was very difficult. I didn't know how people knew me. But I wanted to go back. I wanted it so badly it was all I could think of. Then the tumor was diagnosed and I remember thinking when the consultant said there was only an 80/20 chance I wouldn't make it through the operation, that here was my way back. I was convinced that I'd be in the lucky 20% who didn't make it back rather than the unlucky 80% who did.

They lost me during the operation. I know because one of the nurses told me. I knew anyway, because I'd been back to the place I belonged and I knew I was in the 80% almost before I came round, because the only thing that filled my mind was the word 'bereft'. That way back was gone. The door wasn't just locked and bolted from the other side, it was gone completely.

I know all the theories. That faced with a tremendous insult, the brain can take 'you' and put you somewhere safe and it's not death at all, but whatever. It coincided with what happened when I did 'die', so I know what I believe. What you believe is up to you. I know that this world is a very poor copy of what I had.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Brain tumour  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a huge undiagnosed meningioma tumor pressing down on my left frontal lobe.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I have no idea.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I have no idea.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I knew them, but none of them were people from my life here. They were just people. It was just life, only better.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     beautiful is so subjective isn't it? It was beautiful to me. What can i say? It made this world seem like looking out of a dirty window

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness. Love. Joy. Every positive emotion you could drag out.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That this was the way things were meant to be.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try a lot harder to be nice rather than nasty. I try to help people. I feel things more deeply. Especially when someone does something terrible for their own personal gain or satisfaction. I feel other people's pain very strongly. I seem to know what people are thinking. I started to score up in the high nineties on empathy tests at work. Mostly an increased level of empathy coupled with the sensation of facing the world without any kind of outer layer of skin.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I know when something bad is going to happen to me or to someone I love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It used to be afterwards, but now I tell very close friends beforehand.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just the usual 'come into the light' stuff.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was bereft. I wanted to be back there so much I even considered suicide - but because I wasn't sure whether the manner of dying affected what happened to you, I didn't dare.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     How can I explain? I know.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Was it real? Did it happen? Is there a scientific explanation? Do I want to know?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cinta_j_nde.html