{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cindy_s_nde_7865.html","mytitle":"Cindy S NDE 7865","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cindy S NDE 7865  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cindy S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4072 Cindy S NDE 7865  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My friend and I set out to enjoy a day of tubing in the river.  It was a warm spring day after an early winter thaw. We synchronized our watches so we would know how long it took to get to the Boy Scout Dam. Unfortunately, I got caught in a current and went over the dam. I remembered not to panic. I started to take in water and then I was going up a tunnel that was angled at a 45° angle. 

The light was so white, it was blue. I arrived in a room where an unknown entity held me while I was shown a life review.  This included the newspaper report of my death with even a clerical error of the location. I was then told that it was not my time yet because I had many life lessons to experience.  I did not want to go back. 

I was catapulted out of the water about two to three feet into the air. Meanwhile my friend searched frantically for me. Over a hundred times he said. 'I ran all the way home to get help, no one was home.' He subsequently ran back to resume looking for me. When I suddenly and forcefully emerged from the tunnel. My friend thought I was joking or pulling a prank.  He was very angry, scared, and in shock. I was missing for almost an hour. I gasped, vomited, and finally regained my composure. While all this was transpiring there were two older boys who were pelting us with rocks. I never did figure out why. 

My friend and I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that I was underwater for almost an hour and there is no way for this to logically transpired. 

Since this event, I have been able to feel others pain in an unexpected and profound way. I try not to tell people my story because they think I may have exaggerated it or experienced hypoxia. But I assure them it was real and the other side is where we all will go. The very personal experience I had emotionally cannot be explained with the English language. It was beyond imagination and I will not try to convey it in this forum.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drowning.       Other under water for 45 to 60 minutes  I drowned and was underwater for an extended time. I coughed and vomited water for an extended time after I came to conscious thought. (Underwater for 45 to 60 minutes.)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  See Experience  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All knowing; an awareness that we will come back to this place after our life lessons. I also felt a serene connected-ness to GOD!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the life review.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I'm not sure how to explain time because it was irrelevant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw things in their entirety.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was vastly enhanced.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was at a 45Â° angle and was very, very bright white light that was transitioning to blue.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   White to blue

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A white room with no furniture

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Indescribable love, compassion, empathy, and acceptance of my responsibilities to GOD

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I was only 10, but I knew it was all connected.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     A life review was imprinted in my mind with each detail in the minutiae.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   I had little to no religious exposure at that time and had no reference point for NDE.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am certain of GOD'S existence.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Christian, but not practicing.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had no reference point or had never heard of a tunnel.  Didn't even have a comprehensive understanding of death.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Surreal certainty

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I knew someone was there but I never saw anyone. The messages were telepathically imprinted.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Not sure who it was.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Yes, knowledge that life goes on.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Not sure what you want to hear but I have already stated what I know.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Just a certainty that GOD was and is w/me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The whole event, which I never recanted because I didn't have the vocabulary at the time.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Life goes on.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     Yes     I was told I needed to return. I assumed I would be coming back to ascend and do another life review.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Lessons need to be experienced for an unknown reason.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     A certainty of love for/from GOD!

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a deep empathy and I try to avoid those that suffer needlessly because it is too much for me to handle.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words do not explain the depth of love.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  This event is tattooed to my mind and shall never ever forget it. I share it now bc I want others to share in my certainty.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel other's physical and emotional pain. Sometimes so much so, that I need to exit a situation, or I am forced to stay when I would rather avoid their pain.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My time spent with the entity.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I never told anyone as a child. I waited 30 years or more.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was surreal. Absolutely, no doubt whatsoever!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm entering into redundancy here. Just know that it was surreal and please tell people to be ready.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The missing time, the catapulting out of the water and my physical state were all witnessed by my friend.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Repeat questions are a burden.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cindy_s_nde_7865.html