{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cindy_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Cindy E NDE 4198","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cindy E NDE 4198  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cindy E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2011 Cindy E NDE 4198  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a beautiful fall day. It rained all night, so it cooled down outside. It was Friday, so I only had one day to work before having two weeks off. I wanted to finish that recertification I had waiting for me at work. Then, the following week, I was to drive mom to Gainesville. I decided to take a three-mile jog, instead of the two mile jog, since it was Friday. It was around 6:30 am, so it was relatively dark out. I passed by a guard gate and a bus stop, where a girl was sitting and studying, as she usually did. Then, less than a tenth of a mile down the sidewalk, a very handsome young man on a bicycle hit me with the bike. It jarred my neck, but I didn't fall down. He kept saying 'I'm sorry, I'm sorry', until it drove me crazy. I finely said 'It's okay,' and turned around to go home. The man started beating me about the head, left shoulder and face. He seemed very violent. So, knowing that the guard and kids were at the bus stop, I screamed 'Help, Help!' I was starting to get scared, so I was almost frozen. The man put me in a choke lock. It took him about two times to get me down on the ground. I was thrown on the grass, next to a street lamp and trees. My feet were on the sidewalk. The man then started to choke me.

Being a nurse, I knew many people didn't survive manual strangling. I was scared out of my mind. Without having to think about it, my body started bucking. The man was sitting on top of my chest and strangling me, while saying that I'd be sorry. I kept bucking. I realized I was running out of oxygen. Then, I passed out. I was still hearing the man cursing me and saying I'd be sorry. I passed out.  Yet, I could still see and hear the man yelling. During this, I chastised myself for passing out saying, now you are dead. I was upset because I finally had a job I loved and felt there were too many loose ends.

I said repeatedly, 'I'm dying,' while I could still hear and see my surroundings. 'I'm dying. Born in 1962, died in 1997.' Then, everything got dark. I saw my whole family in front of me, except my beloved nana. I didn't know why she wasn't there. I kept telling my family, 'But, I'm dying.' I saw mom's head, and I was relaxing on the sofa. I kept saying that 'But, I'm dying,' while talking to mom. I wanted her to tell my boss that I wouldn't be coming back to work because, 'But I'm dying,' and to say goodbye to everyone in my family for me. Then, mom was gone, and God came. I couldn't see him. I knew he was there. He kept telling me how I was special and that I shouldn't think so lowly about myself. I felt this being infused in me and I felt very loved. I had low self-esteem at the time, but God made me feel good. I saw a little light, but I never went there. I thought it was the street lamp. Then, I wanted to go back to my family. I didn't want my last conversation to be with that man. I really thought I was dead and I was never coming back, but God let me come back.

I was told that the man thought he killed me, so he kicked my chest and left the scene. I believe this thump started my respirations.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'September 12,1997'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was manually strangled until I passed out.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I passed out and God was infusing me with his love.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt as if I was out forever. Normally, my conversation with mom would have been an hour for this much dialog to take place. God was also infusing his love into me for a very long time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    After I passed out, everything got louder.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     If you can consider darkness a tunnel, in my experience. Though not like the experiences a I've read about.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a small pinpoint of light in the sky. I confused it for a streetlight, but now that I think about it, it was like a bright star, in the sky. (It was cloudy out though.)

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first, sadness and loss. Then, I felt God's love, and it became a very positive experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm not religious. I'm just very spiritual.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm not religious. I'm just very spiritual.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I used to hate myself and I suffer from Bipolar disorder with paralyzing depressions. Since God had his talk with me I feel better about myself. I've been able to get better medical care. Also, when the depressions were severe, I would never consider suicide, because of God's help and love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a more positive relationship with my mother. I've gotten rid of all the negative relationships I've had. I used to think that I was only a somebody if I was married. I stopped thinking like that. I learned to enjoy my life as it is.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most meaningful was God's infusion of love. Also, his advice was better than any advice; I'd ever gotten related to my very poor self-esteem.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My psychologist thought I was hallucinating. My mother believed me. She said she didn't feel my energy while I was nearly dead. My mother and I became a lot closer. It was a positive experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so real. It really happened. In addition, I was very bruised and swollen. Mom commented on how fast I was healing up, too.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I had never been so close to death as this. I know this happened. It's something that you never forget about.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       People are more attracted to the positive energy I give out, even when I'm depressed. Also, I live my life as I want to. I like to hang out and smell the roses more. I know my likes and dislikes more.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cindy_e_nde.html