{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cindy_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Cindy D NDE 20633","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cindy D NDE 20633  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cindy D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						543  Cindy D NDE  20633  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My first out of body experience was when I was sixteen. I had just got off work and picked up a couple friends to go visit another friend's house.  My boyfriend at the time was also with me.  We got to the friend’s house and I could not have been inside my friend’s house for more than two minutes when I started to feel really flushed and lightheaded and felt a need for fresh air.  I told my boyfriend I was going to step outside because I was warm and just had this feeling to get fresh air (hard to explain this feeling).  Concerned, he said he would step outside with me.  I was almost to the door when I got the overwhelming feeling of spinning vibrations running up my body.  It felt like my insides were spinning.  As the spinning was going on, I could see all around the room though my body was stationary.  The vibrations got stronger and stronger and I felt as though I was lifting (all the while spinning as I was lifting) out of my body, exiting through the top of my head.  Then all of a sudden, everything was black.


As I was coming back into ‘sight’ and out of the black darkness, to my surprise, I was floating on the ceiling, looking down at my body. I watched my three friends and boyfriend over my body trying to shake me and slapping me lightly on the face trying to revive me. My body was limp and they could get no response from me. I watched the whole thing. As I watched, I was scared.  I didn’t understand any of this and thought I was dead.  I was so scared because I thought, ‘Oh my god, I’m dead and they are going to bury me, but I’m not dead.  I can see them and myself!’  My next thought was, ‘I’m too young to die!’  At that point, I felt the spinning vibrations again, everything went black and I was back in my body.


I told my boyfriend and friends what I saw them do, who confirmed it.  About fifteen minutes later I started to get the vibrations again and felt I was ‘slipping out’ again.  I held on to my boyfriend and told him, ‘I don’t want to slip back out’.  I fought the vibrations, which was not easy, but that night didn’t have another out of body experience.  I'm not sure what brought this out of body experience on, from a fully awake 'walking outside' to a complete 'pass out onto a out of body experience’.  Most since then are in bed.


That was years ago and there was not much talk on the topic then. When that happened I had never heard of out of body experiences, and it scared me tremendously, but have educated myself since (after ‘many more’ occurrences, mostly in bed).  For some reason, they seem to come on very easy with me.  I have countless other experiences, too, but the first experience is always the most interesting. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October 1977

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I don't recall a ‘spirit body’ during this out of body experience. I was more looking down at what was going on with my body and friends and didn't even try and look at my spirit self.  I would have to say I was more ‘pure consciousness.’

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Not in this particular out of body experience.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I ‘saw’ my boyfriend and friends trying to revive me.

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     One sense I recall was my sight zooming in closer.  It was like it targeted right into the scene below with my body with a zoom in and out quality.  As though just thinking about wanting a better view would ‘zoom’ my sight in closer even though I was still on the ceiling level.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was frightened.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I never ‘decided to go back in my body’.  I didn't know I could do that at the time.  But as soon as my ‘fear level’ rose and I thought I was dead, I went back in.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

After the NDE:

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worst was thinking I was dead when it happened.  The best is that since then I have had other out of body experiences and am educated to understand what is happening so it's not a scary thing anymore.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I really don't tell too many people because I found many looked at me strange when I did when I was younger.  I pretty much keep it to myself unless I'm in the company of a person that is open to the topic.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cindy_d_nde.html