{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cindy_b_nde_2755.html","mytitle":"Cindy B NDE 22755","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cindy B NDE 22755  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cindy B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3173 Cindy B NDE 22755  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In 1986 I was twenty-six years old. A good friend of mine and I lived in Fort Worth/Dallas area and on an extremely hot day we decided to go to one of the many lakes near the city. She was driving an older Cadillac, which was 'like a boat' as we would call it, with balding tires. She also wasn't the most cautious driver, all recipes for disaster. Coming back from the lake we were a little giddy from all the sun and fun but otherwise completely sober of any mind altering chemicals, including alcohol. But driving along a curving stretch of road, my friend started driving a little faster. I remember saying something like ' slow down a little' when the back tires started losing control. It reminded me of in the winter when your car hits a patch of black ice only this was caused from extreme heat. Funny, as we were losing control I felt strangely calm. I still don't understand that to this day. After weaving for a couple seconds (it could have been longer than that) because the other weird thing I still can’t explain is how during all this everything seemed to slow down. Like in slow motion. Along the road we were on were hills or slopes so when the car went off the road it went airborne for a few seconds. (But like I mentioned, everything was in slow motion) As we went airborne we just missed a telephone pole and I remember looking at it calmly as we went by it thinking 'Oh bleep that was close' Then when the car hit the ground again I calmly thought 'this is it, oh well' Darn I can't finish the story.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 18, 1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death.   I was in a serious car crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I don't know what my form was like. Though it was obvious, I was hovering above everything including my body. I still thought the same way I did when I was in my body though. Even without using my physical brain.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Well after the car rolled six times, with me totally conscious the whole time I went through the windshield which I don't remember. But during my NDE in which I was basically hovering over the accident, It was very real. And I even watched people run down the hill to the car, saw my friend climb out of car, heard the people talking, and then someone working on my body. I was clinically dead for three minutes.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything seemed to go in slow motion especially before and during wreck. During NDE I really don't remember.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard what sounded like wind chimes during my NDE. They made me feel relaxed, they didn't sound real close but not too far away either.  At one point, I felt a presence near me, and it seemed the wind chimes alerted me to that. Even though I never saw anyone spiritually.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I didn't see, but felt a presence at one point. They seemed to be near to the side of me. I don't know who it was. I think he communicated that information about the clouds.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A first I thought it was like a sun behind clouds. But as the clouds started parting it got brighter and brighter. Different then our sun. I knew that if I stayed and watched the clouds part all the way than I wouldn't be able to come back.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My vision which was very clear and it almost seemed I could see all angles simultaneously. Hearing: great though it did seem from a little distance. Also had a normal thought process.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A little confusion, but very calm before and after. Like being wrapped in a warm comfortable blanket. Not worried or frightened about anything. Did feel glad when my friend climbed out of car relatively unhurt.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I somehow knew I wasn't going to die. Just like 'ok, you went through this, you saw a couple things but things will be normal again. I was in a coma for two weeks after. I was intuitive before but afterwards it was crazy. And I have more things happen as I get older.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I watched them give my unconscious body CPR. Saw my friend climb out of car with only a few scratches while I was clinically dead. It made me aware that our mental and visual state survive after leaving our bodies.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I believe that happened when the clouds parted I could make a decision at that time.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Had a belief in God. But also opened to Buddhism, etc.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none I don't believe in 'religion'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am not with any one religion. I believe we are all connected and our creator is energy made of pure love.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Definitely. I was intuitive before and even had a couple OBE's when I was really young. But afterwards I had visitations from spirits, knew what people are feeling/thinking, etc. Have had many premonitions, etc.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best is that I know death is not scary. And glad because I seem to have come away with a intuitive gift. That also can be the worst part. I've even said knowing things or the future can be a curse sometimes too. And I don't like that when I'm talking to someone I know what they’re really thinking, which isn't always nice. That can be hard.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most were like' oh really, you don't say' like I might have bumped my brain too hard. Or it was my imagination because I was in a dreamlike state while in a coma. Whatever. I know what happened to me. I guess that's why since then I've researched NDE's and all forms of spirituality like crazy. And if I find a site like this I feel relieved that there are others who have experienced this too.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just for any skeptics out there, try to be a little more open minded. Just remember a little over a hundred years ago people never imagined us flying, going into space, and the dozens of other things that keep getting developed every year. Almost at the speed of light.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Just to have more space for the initial story. Everything else was done great.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cindy_b_nde_2755.html