{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cindy_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Cindy B NDE 6207","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cindy B NDE 6207  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cindy B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2964 Cindy B NDE 6207  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was slicing a bagel and cut the tender area between the thumb and forefinger.  Held the cut under running water in the kitchen sink, and felt myself getting lightheaded.  I felt like I was going to faint, so I laid myself down on the kitchen floor on my back.  

Everything went black.  All of a sudden, I was pulled through a dark tunnel, which started becoming filled with a glowing blue light.  I was not in my body.  Although I felt like I was moving very quickly, I was able to see shadowy figures lining the sides of the tunnel, and I heard them talking, saying, 'Why is she here now?'  'What's she doing here?' 'She's not supposed to be here.'  I heard all of them at the same time, and I became nervous, thinking I wasn't supposed to be there, but I was being pulled and couldn't stop myself. At that moment, I heard the faint sound of my husband calling my name.  

I don't know how to explain this, but I focused on the sound of his voice and it became louder, and louder.   I felt myself leap into the sound of his voice and opened my eyes.  He was standing over me, freaked out.  He said that my eyes rolled upward, I started convulsing, with very spasmodic motions from my arms and legs.  I was also freaked out from the experience.  I suffered for days with a painful headache and listlessness, spending most of my time lying down.  Both my grandmother and mother have seizure disorders as well.  I don't really know if I was near death, but the tunnel experience sounds so much like what NDErs have talked about.  I would like to mention that I have always been a bit psychic, and have had out of body experiences (some blissful, some evil), and spirit visitation.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I was having a seizure, brought on by loss of blood from a cut on my hand.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard my husband calling my name.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My senses seemed heightened.  Though the shadowy figures were whispering, I heard them very clearly.  My sense of movement was accelerated.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I felt like I was moving very fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was the same.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was heightened.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was dark at first, and then it became lit with a beautiful blue glowing light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It seemed like there was a pinpoint of light at the end of the tunnel that I was moving towards.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     The tunnel was very unearthly.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt confusion and then anxiety.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I have been a born-again Christian since I was 15 years old.  Had an out of body conversion experience.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   Still loving Jesus!

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   As I passed thought the tunnel, I heard many voices questioning why I was there.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I definitely felt tlike I was going "somewhere else".

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Though I tried to explain what happened to me to my husband, he was dumbfounded.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It was almost 20 years ago and I still remember the entire experience as if it were yesterday.  I feel this way about most of my more intense psychic experiences.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I have had many psychic experiences my whole life.  They have greatly increasing with my conversion to Christianity at age 15.  If anything, my psychic experiences slowed down from that point on.  My interest in NDEs increased though.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I found it so interesting that I was able to leap into the sound of my husband's voice, as if I was really in control the whole time.  In the past I had OBEs that were frightening because I couldn't get back when I wanted to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I immediately shared it with my husband and my mother, and also my closest friends.  They have always been freaked out by me so it was added to the list.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read about NDEs.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Of course I thought about the electrical and chemical reactions in the brain around blood and oxygen flow during the seizure, and wondered if what happens in the brain upon death is just a result of cells dying.  My gut instinct (which is what I have learned to follow in my old age) tells me that while there is chemical and electrical reaction, the experience goes beyond what we can understand physically.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I still feel the same way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have submitted this experience to you because I am looking for another opinion.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cindy_b_nde.html