{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chuck_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Chuck M NDE 4946","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chuck M NDE 4946  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chuck M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2540 Chuck M NDE 4946  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					1)  At school, with this guy on my back, his legs wrapped around my torso, holding me in a headlock (it felt like he was trying to rip my head away from my shoulders), I remember getting dizzy and passing out. In a few seconds, I was in tunnel with a bright light at the end. All of a sudden, I was watching what seemed to be an old flicker movie, but it was in color. It was me at that time and in an instant I saw scenes of my life from being an infant in my crib. The next moment I was floating above this crowd that I recognized as the staff and my schoolmates, staff were breaking up a fight and the crowd moved back. I saw me, laying on the ground bleeding from my eyes, nose, mouth and ears. Two of the men picked me up, carried me inside, and laid me on a couch. It was weird; I was watching all this happening and felt that I could just move through walls with no boundaries. One of the staff reached over and closed the room door, which made a loud bang when it shut.  I was back in my body to wake up the next morning in a hospital.

2)  I had just shot almost a gram of cocaine. Before I could get the needle out my arm, it felt like an elephant jumped on my chest. I fell to the floor and a few seconds later was in spirit body, sitting on the floor, leaning against a wall looking at my body lying there on the floor, waiting and wondering how to stop this abusive behavior. It seems like I laid there for a couple of hours and then I went back into my body and got up off the floor. I have since left Cali, and eventually found recovery.

3) I was riding my motorcycle one afternoon in N.J. when I saw a pickup truck pull up to the shoulder from the right. I thought the driver looked at me and saw me, but he didn't.  He pulled out in front of me.  Rather than slam into the side of his truck I decided to lay the bike down and kick it away from me. I slid up under the front wheel and stopped the truck on top of me. The driver got out and I asked him to get it off. He climbed in and backed off me, and when he did I felt my chest breaking (like stepping on a package of saltines, slowly breaking). I knew immediately it was bad. I did a body check and I had no visible damage other than my right hand was bleeding. Then I tried to take a breath and couldn't breathe. I remember curling up into a fetal position and trying to meditate to relax to conserve the oxygen in my body. I slid into what felt like a perfectly temperature Jacuzzi, and had the most incredible feeling of love as all things material slipped away and were no longer important. The next moment I was standing there in this beautiful field looking at my mother and grandmother (who have been gone for many years now). They were standing about 40 ft. away from me wearing black dresses and pearls and looked wonderful, as if they were 30, 35, or so.  There was an azure blue sky behind them and it was bright, but not eye hurting bright. As soon as I looked at my grandmother, who seemed to have a tear on her cheek, I knew they weren't going to let me stay. My mom then said to me 'You can't stay'. I started running towards them (effortlessly, like I was running on air) and my mom said again 'You have to go back', but I wanted to hug them and kept going. As I got within 5 ft. of them I stopped, and my mom said 'You have to go back, we are not ready for you'.  I was turned around and took one step back towards where I was coming from. I heard a woman's voice saying 'We have a pulse, Mr. M you gotta stay with us', and I got pissed and remember thinking 'Shut the hell up and whatever you gotta do because I got nowhere to go'. I woke up six weeks later in hospital. I was on the BIOgraphy Channel telling this story Dec.5th at 10pm,'I Survived Beyond and Back'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1969/1978/2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  1)was strangultion. 2)was a drug overdose. 3)was a motorcycle accident.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   1) Was strangled to death in fight. 2) Injected too much cocaine. 3) Was crushed by a pickup truck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I crossed over.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time and space were irrelevant, they didn't exist there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Far more clear and vivid in every detail.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heightened sense of hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Only in my first experience did I pass through a tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     1) I saw all who there. 2) Just me. 3) My mother and grandmother.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Incredibly bright white light that did not hurt my eyes.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     when i crossed over to see my mom and grandmom

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete euphoria, warmth, LOVE, and understanding. I was home, and it was all love and God.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Only in my first did I see a past life regression.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'spiritual, was raised catholic but couldn't understand the hypocrisy'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't buy into group rituals and standard religious practices.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't buy into group rituals and standard religious practices.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   No need to speak, it was like telepathy.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I view everyone as having a specific task and I am meant to be a part of it. I just know it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The wonderful feelings and profound knowledge.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I can just think of things and they work (a car will start or an appliance will work), or I have had premonitions of events or things people will say.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That LOVE is God energy, one and the same, and in the end we all go home.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I started right away but was met with some skepticism.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know that this life is just a means of working out your karma and the body is a vehicle in which we travel.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know that it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am curious to know if NDErs only experience the tunnel and life review the first time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chuck_m_nde.html