{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chuck_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Chuck K NDE 3290","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chuck K NDE 3290  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chuck K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1137  Chuck K NDE  3290  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Just another cold January day in 1998, receiving another series of allergy injections for wasps. I didn't expect anything out of the ordinary, but then no one ever does. I had already received desensitizing injections for a bee allergy for four years and had recently started on the wasp injections. The doctors were humoring me since the wasp allergy didn't register on the series of allergy testing, however, I am certain that a previous sting that lead to severe anaphylactic shock was from a wasp sting. That day I received an injection that contained a thirty-three percent dose of venom of a wasp sting. Within minutes, with no physicians in attendance, I went into anaphylactic shock and coded. This is where my life-altering story begins.

This was the most painful experience I had ever encountered. I was feeling every system in my body shutting down. My throat was closing; heart was racing, excruciating pain circulating throughout my body. Before losing consciousness, with eyes open, I was blinded by a bright light.  The pain ceased and a warmth came over me. From that point forward, I remember nothing in the human form but only that of spirit. I was taken to a place of torture, which to the world of the living is known as hell. I knew this was my destiny. I was conscious of a feeling of solitude and darkness. This was a place of no rest, gnashing of teeth. I thought I knew what it was to lead a good life, what it took to get into heaven. The end was here, for eternity.

Out of the darkness came a light and it was God. I felt his overwhelming presence, a safety I've never known before, a love so great that He chose to save me from the fiery death. Something I knew I did not deserve. Who was I to receive this grace? He sent me back to the flesh to tell others the truth before it's too late.

When returning home from the hospital life was different, everything had changed. I saw the world for what it really was, vile and not of God. It made me nauseous. My marriage to an alcoholic wife was brought into full view, my 60-70 hour job, as a car dealership service director, ranked in the top one percent of the nation, suddenly meant nothing. The next year and a half I struggled with my marriage, job, drug and other addictions, while seeking out God's plan for my life. I felt isolated. I was not part of any church, had no Christian friends and didn't know where to turn.

While on my ranch, God intervened. He told me to place a life size cross on the hill in my hay field, which is at the rear of the ranch, which I did on a rainy, spring day. This was my place of meditation and worship and my struggle for the truth began.

In the summer of 1998, I had an encounter with a fortuneteller. Although I now realize that they are the hand of Satan, she told me truths that could not be denied. Among other things, she told me of my past death experiences, that I would never die again and that I had thousands of angels at my side, with a look of astonishment on her face. She informed me that in the year 2000 I would drop everything I was doing and come to someone's side.

At that moment, of course I was thinking in earthly terms and assumed it would be one of my parents, but I realize now that it was the Lord she was referring to. That incident wouldn't leave my mind. I started thinking about how many times God had tried to get my attention and I ignored Him. The following are witnessed events that at the time they occurred should have dropped me to my knees, but in my worldly self, I labeled unlucky.

Spring 1982 spinal meningitis age twenty-two - woke up with severe headache and nausea, unable to open eyes due to pain. Trip to Plymouth Emergency Room and transferred to South Bend Hospital due to early diagnosis of aneurysm. Admitted to South Bend Hospital with spinal pressure at three times that of normal human, high fever, partial paralysis, on my left side. I was there for a week.  I was heavily sedated, critical condition, chance of survival slim.

Summer 1984 while on maneuvers in northern Michigan with army reserves. Bitten by poisonous snake. Was unable to treat with antidote due to unknown type of snake. Airlifted by helicopter to a mash unit for observation for three days while in and out of consciousness.

1990 I acquired a death allergy to wasp stings only a handful of people in the world have a death allergy to insects, most are foods or food dyes.

Summer 1991 - while working on farm cleaning out old buildings, a wasp stung me. Went into severe anaphylactic shock, which resulted in unconsciousness, closing of airway and shutdown of bodily functions. After a thirteen mile drive to the hospital, I was resuscitated in the emergency room.

Summer 1994 - while working on the farm I was stung by a bee and suffered a severe reaction. Proceeded to undergo allergy testing which determined an allergy to bees. Started to undergo four years of allergy desensitizing injections for bees.

Returning to my struggle in 1998, the next year and a half was a time of trials and tribulations. My marriage was deteriorating rapidly in spite of counseling, and the pressure for performance at work was beyond what I was able to give. I was seeking God with daily visits to my sanctuary on the hill but was still struggling to make sense of it all.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1/20/1998

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   AccidentIllnessAllergic reaction    Other multiple other events over many years 20.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      In the dark abyss: had no five senses, cold/hot, sick, warm, no body, 360 view of dark.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Seemed longer than it was.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    No five senses.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Just fell into blackness.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   After being in the dark, it seemed like hours, came this marvelous light and lifted me out.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Remorse filled me, dread, knowing I was dead.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     The lord revealed to me things that would come to pass, and so far all five still four more.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     All I was given has come to pass and verified.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I'm a new and different man, born of the spirit.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   a GOD GUY /JESUS IS MY LORD.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I'm a new and different man, born of the spirit.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The lord revealed to me things that would come to pass, and so far all five still four more, and the word of God leaped off the pages of his word. With great insight.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I have no old friends and few new ones due to my narrow insight to Christ.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Prophecies.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Just the true saving grace and mercy of God to a gross sinner.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    One year.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was probably real.     Life afterward was different, all aspects; marriage, drug habits, porn, speech.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     My life has changed, when I sing in church, prior to that I couldn't sing to save my life, people started crying and coming to the lord, I became spirit filled.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   Just meditation on the word and pray.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      We are heading in the wrong direction, and many woes are here now, be warned God has not been wrong or will be!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No, great job.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chuck_k_nde.html