{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chrystal_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Chrystal W NDE 2796","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chrystal W NDE 2796  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chrystal W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						944  Chrystal W NDE  2796  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  First accident: I do not remember the accident, a complete blank, what I do remember is being on my way to work one Saturday morning. Then the next thing I remember is standing in front of a person, in a beautiful landscape, very peaceful, trees, babbling brook, etc. The person in front of me was wearing a flowing robe with a golden rope belt. I never saw their face. I just remember that they told me I had to go back, but I felt so peaceful and happy I didn't want to go back. I think I tried to argue and say no, I don't want to go back, I felt so good there. But this person became a little more forceful and said again, 'You have to go back now'. The next thing I remember was hearing the Jaws of Life and someone screaming at me, 'How old are you? How old are you?' I was angry that I had to leave the place I just came from and I was in pain, so much pain. I remember telling them to stop screaming at me, and then went unconscious again. The next time I woke up I was in a hospital bed - a couple of days later.

Second accident: Again driving to work. Next thing I know I'm waking up in a hospital not knowing how I got there. I had been in a coma for several days caused by head trauma and brain swelling. I had lost my short term memory and had a sort of amnesia. I knew my name but I didn't remember much about myself. For instance, I didn't know what kind of food I liked, have any childhood memories, remember the names of people I worked with for years. I recognized their faces but didn't know their names. I also lost words from my vocabulary, simple words like it, if, the...

When I got home, I started to dream my entire day the night before. With no short term memory, I was still able to recognize that things were very weird and that I had already seen/done this. Luckily, this didn't last long, a week or two. I seemed to know things, just 'know' things. A little voice in the back of my head kept telling me to write it down, write it down. Because of the short term memory loss, I couldn't hang onto anything very long. I wish that I had listened to the little voice, but I didn't. I regret that.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'May 6, 1995 and Feb 29, 1996'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury  '1st car accident - many many injuries .. broken bones ... internal injuries etc.  2nd car accident - head injury'  Other I'm not sure if I was clinically dead.  Definitely life threatening... car accident... possibly clinically dead for a brief time.  A car accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Although it seemed very fast, I definitely knew I wasn't on the Earth anymore.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     This person was a man, in a robe, but I never saw his face. The voice seemed familiar to me, but I couldn't place it.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     A beautiful place outdoors... just beautiful  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First accident only - very peaceful and lost my fear of death completely upon my return. I also appreciate the beauty so much more. I have become exceptionally intolerant to any kind of violence or anger. I get very uptight even seeing it on TV. Don't want any part of it.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Just spiritual... seeking  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Still seeking, still don't subscribe to organized religion. Do however believe more strongly that all people and animals and the earth (with everything on it) are connected.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   same  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Still seeking, still don't subscribe to organized religion. Do however believe more strongly that all people and animals and the earth (with everything on it) are connected.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew it was special when I was there, but it wasn't until I was conscious and recovering that I had time to try and put my feelings about it in order.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Divorced my husband - whom I should have divorced years before. I find that I don't like to be in crowds, I tend to hide away. It's too hard to be with a lot of people and have to feel what they feel. Did I mention that before? That didn't happen after the accident - just got a little more unbearable.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Knowing that people would not believe what I was saying.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Described above.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Too many to explain.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I'm not sure how long after the experience it was before I shared. The reaction(s) were always pretty much the same. The person would make a joke or become quiet and distant.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I read a lot.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was definitely real - still felt very unsure/questioning myself.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what happened. I know I am changed forever because of it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chrystal_w_nde.html