{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christy_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Christy B NDE 3964","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christy B NDE 3964  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christy B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1894 Christy B NDE 3964  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In the parking lot of a local bar as I was getting on the back of my boyfriend's motorcycle a patron told me, 'Don't get on that bike.' That's the last thing that I remember before waking up in bed at my parent's house not being able to move and vomiting, while listening to my boyfriend screaming for someone to call an ambulance. We had had an accident and from what I have been told, at first was non-responsive then got up, denied medical treatment from paramedics and went with my parents who had been called to the scene.

I have no recollection of the accident or how I got to my parent's house.  What I do recall is, I was with my biological mother who passed twelve years earlier and countless others who loved me and were so happy to see me and I them. I felt as though they were caring for me but I didn't understand why.  I was told that it was to keep me safe and that I would have to leave soon.  I didn't want to go because I felt like I was Home!  I felt a very powerful, all-loving, and content sensation.  I was surrounded with a powerful energy source.  I was a source of positive energy myself.  I was slightly confused as to why I wouldn't be staying with them.

Then I awoke, in pain and very, very sad. I wonder how I could've gotten up and walked and talked after suffering the injuries I had and have no recollection of it?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/18/08

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  Direct head injury    Other 'motorcycle accident, broken back in 3 places, concussion, broken ankle, and blood clots in chest'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I started wondering why I was with loved ones who have passed on and began asking them questions.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed to go way too fast, my time spent in the meadow, but with the timeline it was quite a while since my boyfriend had gotten arrested then came to my parent's and that's when I regained consciousness. I've never asked how long it actually was but I do know I told my mother that it would be alright with me if I stayed and didn't return to my body when it came time to.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was taken to a beautiful meadow with the most gorgeous plant life and colors so vibrant that I've never seen anywhere, it was amazing!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I recall hearing telepathically.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mom and other loved ones that had passed on, I didn't know all of them, they were greeting me telepathically.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was glowing all around, was everywhere and felt wonderful.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I'm not sure where I was taken but was told that it was to keep me safe for a short while. I was taken to a meadow.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       All loving, peacefulness, contentment, safe and secure, challenging to put into words.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We are energy and it's important to stay positive and act with Love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was so wonderful that it is difficult to put into words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My boyfriend, now husband, asks me about my dreams since I will experience events in dream state before they happen, which also happened before our accident but seem to be more frequent now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I was told that I was going to be returning and couldn't stay gave me a strong sense that I would be able to return when the time was right.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have recently shared the experience with my children to verify that we still live after our bodies die. I shared with my husband shortly after the accident and he doesn't like talking about it, but the kids are fascinated and have many questions, some I have no answers to but do know that we are energy and exist even without our bodies!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I'd heard of it but just recently started researching NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I really wondered why I didn't feel 'happy to be alive'.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I need to remain 'here' and be a source of positive love for those in my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christy_b_nde.html