{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christopher_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Christopher R NDE 3056","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christopher R NDE 3056  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christopher R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1084  Christopher R NDE  3056  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was trying to unplug a record player. It was plugged into an extension cord. I put it in my mouth and tried to pull it apart. That's when I was electrocuted. My eyes rolled back into my head. I could see the electricity going through my body. 

Then I left my body. My brother was on the bed, and I was looking down on him. I could see the whole room. It was like being in my body, but I was not in my body. Then I saw a tunnel. It was made of bricks, just like a brick road, only curved like a tunnel. I went through the tunnel. At the end, there was a bright, white light. When I went through the white light, there was a man. I say man, because it was a man's voice. This person was in a white robe. I did not see a face. I did not want to go back through the tunnel; it was so peaceful. I wanted to stay, but was told I had to go back. There was a lot I had yet to learn. I went back through the tunnel and was back in the bedroom. I saw my brother on the bed, and then I slammed back into my body. 

I pulled the plug from my mouth, went into the bathroom and looked in the mirror. Then I went and showed my parents. They took me off to the clinic.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1966 or 1967

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Other I was happy.  I was being electrocuted.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was alert the whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I went through a tunnel, a brick tunnel, with a white light at the end of it.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I met a person at the end of the white light. I did not see its face, but it had a man's voice. I was told to go back, because I still had more to learn.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was a very bright, white light, with a feeling of calm.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was scared.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I seem to be attracted to metaphysics.

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I seem to be attracted to metaphysics.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel to this day that we are only here to learn. I have been more open. I see things and know when some things are going to happen.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  When I have a relationship, it always seems to end because I seem to know what's going on - stuff that men aren't supposed to know. It's hard to explain.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I find that people get scared when I talk about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I see ghosts sometimes, but I'm used to it. I just ignore it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Yes, the leaving my body and the out of body experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    In 1996, I started telling my family - thirty years after it happened. Everybody just seems to be scared.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I was scared.  I was only eight years old. I thought everybody would think I was crazy, or making it all up.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I still at times have a hard time with it. I was raised to be grounded, but I'm not open. It's been hard. They treated me like I was slow. I had a hard time learning, but I went to college.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I relive it almost every day. Sometimes, I go through the tunnel and ask for help when I'm trying to win at bingo - and win almost every time.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Yes. If it happens to anybody, just listen and don't be scared. Also, listen to little kids. They are more open than adults.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      It's hard. At this time I don't know.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christopher_r_nde.html