{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christopher_nde_6514.html","mytitle":"Christopher NDE 6514","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christopher NDE 6514  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christopher NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3206 Christopher NDE 6514  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					A friend and I were walking through a field and nearby woods. We were checking a pasture fence-line that fenced in a group of horses that we had. That's what I did û I broke and rode the wildest untamed horses and I LOVED IT!  Well, as we ended our five-acre walk, I started feeling a small burning in my chest, right in the middle of my chest cavity.  I didn't think much of it. From birth, as far as I knew, I had never been sick or even had a cold, so I just continued on as if the burning were nothing.

My friend Charles and I stood there talking, like, for two more hours to the guy who owned the land (Preacher Charles.) While we were talking, I felt that same burning four more times, so I'm thinking maybe this is what they called gas in your chest.

Charles and I left. So before I headed home, I was going to stop and see my grandmother and step-granddaddy. I saw them and took a shower at my grandfather's house. While showering, that same burning came back. It still was a small burning feeling in the same place in the center of my chest. Well, I got out of the shower, put on a change of clothing, went and told my granddaddy that I had a burning in my chest that keeps popping up. He asked, 'Does it hurt?' 'No,' I said. He asked how long has it been going on, and I said, 'Just today.' I told him if it happened again that I was going to go to the hospital, and just when I said that, it happened again. So, I left to go to the hospital. 

It was not even ten minutes away, but before I could get there, my whole body became hot, like real hot, like if you got the heat in your house up high and you're wearing a bunch of clothing, like hot. I only had on a black t-shirt, jeans, and sneakers. So I stopped at the near-by store, went in, got a bottle of water. Then I started feeling dazed. Now, I was not even five minutes from the hospital and I was feeling dazed, blurry-eyed and really hot.  I open that bottle of water and poured it over my head, walked to the counter where the store attendant was and said, 'Call an ambulance, I'm dying!' 

Now, I don't know how I knew I was dying, but I just knew.  I laid down on the floor, and a verse from the Holy Bible came to mind. 'NO WEAPONS FORMED AGAINST ME SHALL PROSPER.' When I went to recite that passage aloud, instead out comes, 'NO, Jesus, you said I was going to live!' I said it three times. 

The paramedic asked me, 'What's wrong?' and I said, 'My chest,' and then I passed out. I woke up in the hospital emergency room.  I sat up and grabbed my chest. It was hurting bad this time.  The doctor walked in and said, 'He's having another one!' I said, 'Another what?' and he said 'Massive heart attack.' I said, 'What me? I've never been sick in my life' and right then I started throwing up purple fluid from one end of the bed to the other, and some even got on a nurse.  I can remember her saying, 'He just threw up on my shoes!' and I passed out again.  

This time I opened my eyes, I was not in a hospital, but somewhere else. It's hard to explain, but it felt like a room where there were no colors, no walls, and no darkness.  But the room did have a color.  It was the color of light.  I had no thoughts of my children, my family, and there were no cars, birds, trees, nothing. 

I knew something was wrong.  I felt that I was dead but it was, like, not even a worry, like I didn't even care. Then I noticed the light was coming only from one direction û the direction I was looking. There was no side view, only straight-ahead tunnel vision. I had to turn my head to see what I wanted to see.  Whatever direction I looked in, that's the direction I went in. If I wanted to get from where I was to somewhere else, all I had to do was look, and I was there. I remember after learning that, looking down to see how fast my legs were moving.  But there were no legs, no arms, no body, no nothing!  I felt as though I was just vision, a set of eyes.  But there were no eyes, either. No words were spoken that I heard. 

It was as if I was so amazed at moving so fast and turning my head to see, and finding myself floating. Whenever I wasn't moving, I felt as if I was floating. I noticed that the things I was learning about the place I was in just popped into my mind. I don't know where my body was or how I was able to see or feel. I felt as if I could have spoken, but I don't even know how I was able to think. But I WAS thinking things like this, 'I don't know about her [that nurse.] Here's this guy is dying, and you're worried about a little throw-up on you. Get out of here!'  

I woke up in another hospital that is 45 minutes away. When I awoke, there was this lady hovering over me. Her face was real close to mine. 

Until this day, I don't know if I was still sleeping, or what.  She had on a surgical mask and cap, and her hair was, like, golden. Her skin was like white-golden. Her eyes were like diamond-cut ocean-like dark blue, and she said to me, 'YOU'RE BLESSED, YOU'RE BLESSED, you're special, and He has something for you to do.' I never saw the mask move around her mouth where her lips were. She turned and walked away. A minute later, I raised myself up on my elbows, and saw a whole lot of doctors and nurses in my room. They were all in one corner. I have no idea what they was doing. One nurse came over to me and said, 'You're blessed!  God has something for you to do!'  I asked her. 'Am I dead?' and she said. 'Not anymore!'  I asked, 'Am I going to die?' and she said, 'Not on my watch.' It felt like I was in that peaceful place for like ten to fifteen minutes, but I was really there for almost an hour.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  07/12/2010
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A massive heart attack

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I noticed everything around me and that everything was one unit, working in different ways, but yet one.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       This question I can't answer because knowing I was dying was a high point.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   There was no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision controlled my actions

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was all connected to my vision.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was like I was somewhere but nowhere, and I wasn't tired or sleepy.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Amazed, excited!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I understood what cherub spirits are, and I understood that what the world needs is to wake up and see worldly things for what they truly are, and that we need to truly study our God's word. We all, and I mean everyone that breathes, need to learn how to love all over again, and share love with everyone we meet. If not, no peace will fall upon them, nothing but destruction, false love, and the darker death.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I understand that this world has other people in it as well as me, and we are all a little different. If I love them or care for them, in order for me to try and be a help to them, I need to understand in what ways I could be the most help to them.  I mean that I can't fix a car if I have no skills or wisdom to fix cars.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     it makes since now as I was writing this -- It wasn't  Jesus out that window  he was watching over me    He love us he couldn't rise up against us , he loves us to much it was God the father  who carried out Sentencing on Satan and his followers

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     To love, to truly love

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     yes I felt like I was in Jesus  that in him I had no cares no concern no urge of sin no sinful thoughts just a feeling of ease and comfortable like I felt as Jesus whispering tome everything is ok

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I had a feeling that Gods words are being for filled against Satan and his angels and their earthly followers That Jesus didn't look at what was going on either  , that this was the God him self moving on the otherside os  that window

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     uncertain  all I know it  felt like there was a long rectangular window of light  and I felt like there was something going on  on out there  I felt it was war or something  I had no urge to see I went to the window but I never looked out I felt more amaz

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     yes I never really felt love here but during that time  I felt like a baby being held by a loving parent  just just love and peace

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I apply love from the start, full-pledge love  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I know there's a place in the Bible that says, 'My children, sleep till the day,' and it's talking about peace.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I know it feels like now I can feel  the good in people and the bad, but maybe that's just my imagination.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The vision.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it as soon as I remembered, after all those drugs they had me on wore off.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      I thought I had been dreaming.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christopher_nde_6514.html