{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christopher_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Christopher N NDE 5174","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christopher N NDE 5174  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christopher N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2700 Christopher N NDE 5174  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This happened to me at the time of my accident, and the experience consisted of three different parts.

First, I floated above myself on the operating table and I could see the doctors and nurses working on me. It was a short-lived experience but very vivid.

Secondly, I found myself floating in a dark room, with bright white clouds all in the background, with light coming from behind the white clouds. My family members were. There was also a team of doctors standing in a perfect circle around me. I believe it was here where I decided, or was told, to come back - it was not my time.

Thirdly, in this one I have proof I was out of my body. I was in a coma for ten days, and my sister was in the room holding my hand. I was across the room by the door, looking at her. I would see the back of her head, and then she would turn towards the door and begin to cry. I could see her perfectly.

When I came out of my coma, one of the first things I asked her, was 'Why were you crying?' and she stated she wasn't. Then I told her that I had seen her from across the room. When I told her that, the hair stood up on the back of her neck, she told me later. Then she admitted that she had wanted to be strong for me, so she would turn away from me in the bed in order to try to keep me from seeing her weakness. I explained that I had been over by the doorway, out of my body, and that when she had turned to cry, she was actually facing right toward me.

This last one is proof, in my opinion. How else would I have seen her crying?

Since then, I have read a book about OBEs and I practice inducing them. I have been able to get out of my body on my own.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  04/03/1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'I was shot three times, once in my abdomen, once in right leg with hit my Femoral artery and the other grazed my left leg.  It was about 2:00am, Easter Sunday/Monday Morning.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Major blood loss, and I died in the hospital on the operating table.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure what you mean, I was aware the whole time, each time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     When I was in the dark room with white clouds, it was somewhere else, not of this time or space. It is hard to explain

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It is hard to think of how my vision was affected. But in the experience with my family and the doctors standing around me, it seemed more like I was in a field of light and darkness. The light was very bright, but did not bother my eyes, like it would in waking life. I did not have to squint to look directly into, I mean.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not so much during the experiences I had in the hospital, but more in the ones that I have induced myself. I always hear a sound like the buzzing a bumblebee makes. It gets louder and louder right before I am able to separate.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Most seemed to be family members from this life - they were the ones I was familiar with; and the others looked like doctors and nurses, all dressed in white.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   But not just a light, it was mixed with darkness and white clouds. The light was behind the clouds and I was surrounded by all the light and clouds.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Since my experience, I have been much more in tune with my instincts and I have had dreams of premonitions. I have written my premonitions in my dream journal and some of them have happened.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was raised Catholic, but I have come to realize that God is in all of us, and all we need to do is look within and we shall see. But I do not discount any church, as churches are where others need to be for their own paths.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'I am a true believer but not sure about organized religion, do not think you have to attend church to have a close relationship with God.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was raised Catholic, but I have come to realize that God is in all of us, and all we need to do is look within and we shall see. But I do not discount any church, as churches are where others need to be for their own paths.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that we are all connected, from one source, tied together with and from the light - all separate in ourselves, but all one at the same time.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Some. Some of the friends I used to have, I no longer have; and having these experiences has brought others into my life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am very much more psychic than I was before. Sometimes I try not to be because it gets scary sometimes, to be honest.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it was meaningful to me. But the one with me floating, deciding whether or not I should stay there or come back, that was pretty profound. Sometimes, I miss that pure love feeling and wonder why I was sent back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared some with family and a few friends. Some have been accepting and others have just brushed it off. It is hard for them to see and understand what I know to be true, since they have not walked in my shoes.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My sister validated it for me. She confirmed that she had done exactly what I had seen from across the room, so if that was true, then the other things must be, too.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is just something you do not forget, or dismiss. I have been working on ways to perfect my gift, but time and money get in the way. I guess life gets in the way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have tried different types of medicinal substances like mushrooms and such, trying to cross over to other realms, but nothing is like the real thing.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This was a life-changing event, (for better or worse - who's to say!). All I know is that it was what I was supposed to go through and experience. I do not fear death and only want to live life to the fullest.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not really - pretty good survey.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christopher_n_nde.html