{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christopher_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Christopher J NDE3658","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christopher J NDE3658  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christopher J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1661 Christopher J NDE 3658  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the backyard getting jumped by my brothers for the millionth time (they may consider it playing, but I considered it me getting jumped). I had found myself at the bottom of a dog pile. I tried unsuccessfully to free myself five times, getting close enough to count the fourth time. I lost the energy to fight back, and the fifth attempt to free myself was feeble.

I remember my lungs hurting and my breath getting short, and me closing my eyes, praying that I would get through it. Then very suddenly, I could breathe again. I opened my eyes and saw the dog pile from above, my body twitching pitifully below. I didn't quite know how I got up there, or what was happening, but I knew something wasn't right. I looked around, and found myself eye-to-eye with the gutters of the roof of the house. I was surprised - and excited to a point - that I was that high up. I looked back down and saw that the boys had gotten off me, and that they had concerned looks on their faces, which was a first as far as I could tell. I felt a tug at my back, and found myself in a dark tunnel with a clear bright light at the end.

I was first fascinated, and then as time dragged on, I became afraid that I wouldn't be able to leave. I called to whomever would hear me, then the little light at the end of the tunnel became blinding. I closed my eyes and covered my face with my arm.

A guy's voice asked me if I was okay, and I slowly lowered my arms and looked up. I was standing in the middle of a meadow, rolling hills and beautiful flowers dotted the area. I could see cottages in the distance. A song more beautiful than any I have ever heard was playing in the background, with no visible source. The very air emanated love and warmth, a love that goes deep into the soul and can withstand anything. The guy called me by name and I turned around. The man was barely out of his twenties, blond, longish hair, blue eyes, dressed in the whitest clothing I have ever seen. (Later, I learned that angels were clothed in light, which explains his clothes.) He towered over me; I only rose to his navel area. He told me that I wasn't supposed to be here, looking down on me with love and concern. I asked him why, and he said I had a LONG time to go before I could enter heaven to stay. I wondered how long silently, and he answered me as if he heard what I was thinking.

'You are supposed to be eighty-three years old before you get here.'

I felt a subtle pull from behind me, and I fought it, knowing it would bring me back to Earth. He told me he was always going to be there for me, no matter what, and to go back to my father. Reluctantly, I agreed, and felt myself falling through eternity. I opened my eyes to be in my living room, looking up, with a pain in my chest, worried faces flooding my vision. I was home.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 23

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Being crushed by my brothers.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was in heaven.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in heaven.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I could tell when seconds passed by. Although they passed by quickly, I could tell exactly how much time passed by.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clearer, brighter colors, light seemed brighter.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could tell more easily where the source of sound was, pitch, volume and clarity.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Black tunnel, shapes passing me by.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I thought then and still believe now who I met was my guardian angel, Sit'l. I didn't know him then, but I know him now. He's saved my life on many accounts. We communicated verbally.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very brilliant light at the end of the tunnel that I got closer to as time went by, before I found myself in heaven.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     If heaven counts, yes.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, love, serenity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw my life up to that point, a life of turmoil. It was nothing I didn't already know. I didn't quite learn anything different from my life review, but I did learn from Sit'l that I was supposed to be eighty-three before I die.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     Don't know the nature of the question.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Church of God in Christ

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It gave me unwavering conviction that GOD and everything He does and says is real.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It gave me unwavering conviction that GOD and everything He does and says is real.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Clairvoyance, future-sight.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that someone is always in my corner, no matter what, was comforting to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Other than now, I have just shared this individual experience with one other person, and only five minutes ago. He himself had an NDE. We were comparing stories, and found a few things to be the same.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never spoke of it, but he came to me in a dream two weeks after to remind me that he was there for me, and it confirmed that what I saw and heard was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     He still comes to me in dreams.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Two other NDE's following: one when I was twelve and one when I was eighteen.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christopher_j_nde.html