{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christopher_e_obe.html","mytitle":"Christopher E OBE3652","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christopher E OBE3652  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christopher E OBE  					  					  						Home  						Classification OBE  						1651 Christopher E OBE 3652  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My out of the body experience happened as result of the above reason. It took place exactly three years ago while on business trip to Berlin in Germany, on that faithful night I was visiting a friend I knew back home. He was then residing in Germany. While sleeping on his bed in the middle of the night precisely by 2:30 am, I suddenly woke up for no reason and attempted to stand out from the bed! 

To my surprise, I discovered that I was double! One of me was lying down sleeping on the bed, while one of me was standing right in the room being fully aware of myself and looking down on myself still sleeping on the bed wearing the same shirt! I was confused! I moved around the room trying to understand what was happening. I tried to touch the closet without success! Everything in the room seemed invisible to my touch, while still trying to understand it! 

I heard a voice speaking softly from behind me to return quickly to my body before it is too late to do that. The voice was more concerned with the time at that moment. The voice was more specific about me not making it to return back to my body after a certain number of hours is up. The voice said I would die if the hours comes without me returning to the body on the bed. Well I was the more confused because neither did I see who is speaking nor understanding what he mean at that moment! Rather there was a more pulling force in me that wanted me to explore the new environment around me which was peaceful though strange, there was no day time light no darkness but very visible.

While standing in that room in confusion suddenly my village appeared in the distance from where I was standing! Immediately my mind focused on that village. Next thing I was standing right outside the gate of a particular family in my kindred. The soft voice behind me continued with his warning for me to return to my body that the time is fast approaching when I could not re-enter again and I would be a dead man. Well the more warning the more the other force I can't explain is pulling me toward another venture. 

At all this stage I clearly understand that I am out of my body because I feel the same way as I feel now writing all this down. But the peculiar thing is that while standing in my village I can still see my body sleeping in my friend's room far aware in Germany, while trying to put all this things together, my eyes were opened more to my immediate environment! I started seeing all the dead elderly people of my kindred. They were all happy in there various compounds some cooking while some are doing other domestic works. From the spot I was standing, I could see every compound and all the past dead elderly people of our kindred, but none noticed me, though I was happy to see all those dead and nice elderly people of the past! It reminds me of the good old days of my life as a little boy in our little village, but I couldn't talk to them because there was something separating us.

At this stage, I was suddenly standing in front of my grandfather's compound! He was dead a long time ago but the first son, who is my uncle, had inherited the property with his family in there. As I stand, I suddenly saw my cousin, who was my friend and very close to me. I was wondering what he was doing in the village at that time because I knew him to be in another state at the time. While still thinking about it two of my uncles wives appeared, making them three with my cousin brother. They asked me where I have been for a long time; they said my mother was looking for me. At this moment, I heard the soft speaking voice asking me not to go closer to them. My mother suddenly appear among them and started crying, because of my great love for my mother I started going closer to her. She hugged me and said she has searched for me everywhere. She said were have I gone to? She said I should come into the house. I refused and instead I withdrew from her and pointed in the distance telling her to see my body sleeping in the room in Germany. I told her I will die if I don't return to that body before a certain time! She said she knew but I must first enter the house before going back. At this moment I started saying to her 'No, I will die my time is up!'

Then suddenly a whirlwind carried me from my feet and threw me back into the room in Germany. I started walking around in the room trying to touch my friend as he was sleeping; nothing was visible to my hand! I stood there confused on what to do! Then the soft voice came again and asked me to approach my body on the bed. He said I should stretch my hand and jump into the body. Though my body was lying down in an upward position, I jumped into it stretching like a diver! Suddenly I was back to the real world immediately waking and looking at the time.  It was 2:30 am. I had pains of the heart for three days for re-entering the body. I called my mother that morning and told her what happened. We all believed I was almost gone if not for the mercy of my creator. With much of my experience, which I can't explain in physical or scientific form, I know life's mystery.

Thanks for given me this opportunity.

Christopher E.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    sleeping  Other as a result of family feud.  Extended family feud.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the duration of this experience! I was aware of what was happening only I can't put it together.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The particular part of me re-entering my body was significant among all, I was aware of all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The world in which I find myself was different in terms of light or darkness, I could see everything clearly but there was no light as clearly as in our earthly condition. I could move to a place as fast as a light by simply focusing my mind on it, there was no limitation or boundary. Only I could not see who was speaking softly behind me. He spoke as if he was the atmosphere but softly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could see and hear the character I describe above but I could not speak with the dead elderly people! I can't understand the dead quietness and speechless indifference to my presence.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I knew all the dead elderly people including the living which I believe was manipulated to bring me into the house that could have ended my life not to return to my earthly body in Germany.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Well i was happy to see the people of the past liven in harmony

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Well! Just like I feel in this physical.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   a liberal Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do no longer believe in most things of the Bible, I know that something is being hidden from us.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   liberal Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do no longer believe in most things of the Bible, I know that something is being hidden from us.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After this! I discovered there was no distance in the spiritual or un-physical world; you could see and travel at will once you focused your mind.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I now know the world is deeper than we think.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I once noticed by trance in the middle of the day while driving of an ex-girlfriend of mine with her parent visiting a witch doctor woman to cast a spell that will make me marry her. While in that trance I saw them chanting incantations with my name! I suddenly came back to reality and told a companion in the car what I just saw. We went to my ex-girlfriend's friend to tell her what I just saw of her friend. When my ex-girlfriend came back from the trip she said it was true, and describe everything as I saw them in my trance. Well I don't know why it happen; I never took such experiences seriously until now.  Though I asked my girlfriend to bring the magic spell for destruction if she wanted the relationship to continue.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well many spiritual experiences I have come across, I have seeing things physically which are not human. At this stage of my life I am trying to know who I am.  My sister has many more - seeing things no one can see.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I do share them with friends and pastors; they were all amazed because it is all confirmable.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Everything in my life was confirmable, those involving people and whatever.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I do not know who I am. I only hope my creator could tell me why.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christopher_e_obe.html