{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christopher_c_ndes.html","mytitle":"Christopher C NDEs 9501","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christopher C NDEs 9501  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christopher C NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs;Drug Experiences  						5113 Christopher C NDEs 9501  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    Several years previously, I had been using heroin daily and was dependent on it.  Since that time, I had gotten married, found a good job, and was living a happy and productive life. I had recovered from my dependency and was no longer fully addicted to drugs. However, I did miss the feeling that heroin used to give me and so I still dabbled in it occasionally. My use was probably once per month or so.

  On the night of my experience, I was visiting my younger brother. He also was a drug user, and often my use would be while I was in his company. We were in his small flat and I was sitting on the sofa in the living room. There was nothing remarkable about the setting or my mindset at the time. It was a scenario I had been in many times before without anything worth noting. I mixed up what, for me, was an average recreational dose of brown heroin and injected it into a vein in my forearm.

  Next, I remember being out of my body in a vast black space. It was odd because although there was only blackness at that point, it didn't seem dark; it was both pitch black and brightly lit, simultaneously. I had no body, and it was just as if my consciousness alone was floating in this space. I was still 'me.' I just had no physical body. I did not find this odd or frightening; it seemed more real and natural than real life. There was also no sense of separation from my physical body or the physical world, and it just happened without me giving a second thought to what was going on. Emotionally I felt an overwhelming sense of joy and comfort; it was a beautiful and ecstatic feeling and very calm and serene. It felt very natural. My mind was more clear and more lucid than it had ever been.

  The next part is tough to put into words. I don't know if I received new information or if, in this otherwordly state, I could see and comprehend things that I already knew, but I realized that I knew the answer to everything. I knew what we are, where we came from, and what the universe is. All the questions that we spend our lives trying to figure out, I knew the answers to. The most notable thought, and the only one I can still clearly recall, is that these answers were not complex.  On the contrary, they were child's play simple. I remember thinking to myself, "Oh my god, how have I lived all my life and not seen this? It has been right in front of my eyes the whole time"! If I could have, I would have face-palmed myself for not working this basic stuff out before.

  Then I noticed a light way off in the distance. It started as a sky-blue coloured dot, becoming larger and larger. I don't know if I was traveling toward it or if it was traveling toward me. I think probably the former. As I got close to this blue circle of light and it filled most of my vision, it exploded into brilliant rays of blue and green.   At that point, my eyes sprang wide open, and I sat on my brother's sofa, gasping for breath. We both recall me saying these exact words- 'OH MY GOD! Let me catch my breath, and then I am going to tell you something amazing!'

  My brother was standing over me with a telephone in his hand, dialing the emergency services. He had aborted the call when I sprang awake, and he later told me that my face had gone blue and my lips purple and that I had stopped breathing for approximately three minutes. Coincidently I had 'returned' at the exact moment he was going to press the dial button, having already put 999 into the phone. I had no sense of time passing while I was in my experience.

  Once I had composed myself and got my breath back properly, I attempted to recount to my brother the information regarding our existence which I was now privy to, or so I thought I was. Like on waking from a dream, the memory of that information was gone. Or there is just no human language capable of describing it. I know to this day that I had access to that information while I was 'away.' I cannot recall or recount it. I can still remember and recount my normal thoughts from that space, such as the realization all the answers had been in front of me my whole life. I often wonder if those earth-shattering revelations are still there in my mind, unable to be accessed in a normal conscious state.

  As a follow on to this experience, in 2018, I drank a lot of rum one evening with my sister-in-law, and she got out some lines of Ketamine for us to snort. In my drunken state, I accidentally snorted all four lines she had put on her phone screen. Within a few minutes, I was back in the same space I was in during my NDE. I had the same realizations as before, and the experience served to solidify in my mind the one that I had had several years previously. It wasn't just an imagined realm; it was real.

  Since these experiences, I have gained a much more profound appreciation of life and the natural world around us. I have moved away from the city and live a simple and very happy life surrounded by mountains, trees, and wildlife. I also no longer have the fear of death that I had previous to my NDE because I now know what will happen when I die. I believe that being in a human body is challenging and unnatural for us and that our proper form of being is one of consciousness alone.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2014  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drug or medication overdose       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I was an occasional recreational user of IV Heroin  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I feel that the blue circle or sphere in my experience may have been our planet earth seen from space.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Explained in experience  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was stable throughout  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Time didn't seem to exist, or I had no feeling of it  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think it was pretty much the same  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Cannot recall, experience was 8 years ago.  This is the first time I have ever described it in writing  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Described in experience report  

  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     As described in experience, a dark and simultaneously light space or void  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, comfort, relaxation, peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     I understood the meaning of life, the universe, and everything  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  Brought back after involuntarily being blinded by beams of green and blue light  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know.   I believed in god, as in a higher intelligence from which creation arose, but I do not believe in religion.  
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

  What is your religion now?       Do not know.   Same as before my experience(s) only more strongly confirmed  
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I always had a belief that our consciousness and body exist separately to each other. Being in a human body has always felt a little strange and unnatural. I would look in the mirror and think, what on earth is this thing that I am inside of?  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It 100% affirmed beliefs that I was not 100% sure of previously  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I believe that I knew the answers to everything because my conciousness was a part of that 'everything'  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know for certain that I did have this information, but I cannot recall or recount it specifically  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I know for certain that I did have this information, but I cannot recall or recount it specifically  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I know for certain that I did have this information, but I cannot recall or recount it specifically  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I know for certain that I did have this information, but I cannot recall or recount it specifically  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Some of it could be explained in words, but the insights and information I received cannot be described in words.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A sixth sense for impending danger, for example knowing an animal is about to run in to the road in front of my car  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the fact that I have seen and understood the answers to everything we seek as humans, and the realisation that they are not complex questions and that the answers are right in front of us. I just cannot see them again since returning to a human form.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told people right after but have never written it down before. I'm not sure anyone else has been influenced by my experience though  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of NDEs but never looked into them too much. None of the events in my experience were things I had ever previously heard of.  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     To put it simply, it just felt more real than real.  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     As per experience report, I had a reaffirming experience while on psychedelic drugs a few years later.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Ketamine         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christopher_c_ndes.html