{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christophe_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Christophe D NDE 7968","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christophe D NDE 7968  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christophe D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4132 Christophe D NDE 7968  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was playing on the sidewalk in front of my home with a plastic truck, I wanted to fill it with sand on the opposite sidewalk and when I crossed a car hit me, I got up returned to my sidewalk and was feeling that I was urinating on me, I sat down and blacked out completely.

I'm stretched out on our couch at home, I'm seeing in rainbow colors people in white coats with the inscription Samu 93 (ambulance staff, transl.), I only understood a long time after what this meant.

Beside the doctors, my mother in my fathers arms, both crying, a horrible vision seeing them like this.

I'm seeing a child stretched out, but I don't realize that this is me.

And I am like glued on the ceiling, I feel nothing, as if I was floating like in water, but without any feeling of weight, or pain, or heaviness, I have no weight at all.

Only the vision of my parents is scaring me, everybody is very agitated around this child, me of course.

If I had not this vision of my parents I could say that it is pleasant, strange to say this.

I'm hearing what is said, but some other person is talking to me, I don't see it, I don't understand it, I'm listening to the other persons who are taking care of me, to my mother begging me to come back.

But the well-being that I feel up there is stronger. The other voice is getting stronger, it is screaming scaring me and I only here this one, it comes to capture my attention, I still don't see it, I don't understand why.

I don't here the doctors nor my parents anymore, only this voice which is talking to me, as if it was saying to go home, that it is time and that my parents would be very happy. This voice tells me to listen and to behave.

I wake up at the hospital, my mother enters my room with a gift, I'm getting up and I'm playing with it, I feel much better, but time had passed.

I never knew the duration of the coma, my mother never wanted to talk about.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/10/76

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident.         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function).   I was playing on the sidewalk, but had no awareness of danger.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   A stronger sensibility, as if my senses were more developed as in everyday life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was able to listen to the voice.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time had no value at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was too young at the time of the accident, had not had enough references about what was before.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Much more developed, at the end I could pay attention to several conversations.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Culpability, calm

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Trop jeune pour avoir conscience de la religion

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Too young

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Frankness, respect are strong values.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     After many long years I realized that life or death are but stages.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Very open minded, tolerant, loving nature, loving encounters....

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am listening more, since I became aware of this experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  e experience  This experience is engraved for life with minute details, while after this, my childhood memories begin around 10/12 years of age.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    25 years later with my wife, her listening helped me a lot to analyze it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Too young

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm sure that this was effectively real a dream is completely different.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When I had my son, one evening I found myself with his mother looking at him and I got a strange sensation of having experienced this already. My wife was in my arms, (like my parents, at the moment of my experience), but with happiness; and I said to my wife what a pity it was that my father, who died shortly before, hasn't known his grandson. At the same time I felt an air stream passing in my neck, I turned to my wife and our looks were enough to make us understand that we had been heard.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My comparison marks between before and after, I only could do them 25 years later, therefore I sometime lack references with the time before.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christophe_d_nde.html