{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christophe_nde.html","mytitle":"Christophe NDE 5116","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christophe NDE 5116  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christophe NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2702 Christophe NDE 5116  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					December 1, 2009, 19:00, It is night time. I am driving alone, the road is straight, and I am not driving very fast.

An object falls from the passenger seat, I unfasten my seat belt and I bend to retrieve it. I lose control of the car. I have no memory from the moment when I bent to retrieve that object until the morning after - and even so, painkillers have erased my memory a lot.

I was ejected five meters away from the car. I had a broken pelvis (three times), broken neck vertebra (C1), broken ribs, spleen outpouring, various pelvic bruises and brain trauma.  I was in critical condition from midnight to 6:00 am.

(I can't be sure about when I had the experience. However, I believe it occurred when I had the accident.)

All is cold and black. Without exaggeration, the atmosphere seemed as if there was nothing on earth anymore. No ground, no sky, no skyline, just black.

I feel I am lying on some surface, though. I see a white light in the distance, like a lobby entrance or an opened door. The light is coming closer, or, rather, I feel I am going toward the light - as if I were walking but without walking, I feel my body does not move. It is very hard to describe. Once I arrive close to the light, a being on my right stops me. Without recognizing him by his appearance, I know who he is - he is my Grandfather. He tells me something like, 'No, not now, go back.'

(I know these are short sentences. I think he said more, but I am unable to recall the exact words.) I can also tell that he is calm and kind, but, at the same time, I feel he is deeply angry with me. Then I see the light going away.

That's it. It's not much, but the more I think about it, the odder I feel. I did not share it with anybody because I felt it was just for me; and, besides, I thought nobody would really believe me anyway.

Today I'm convinced that my grandfather (and it absolutely was my grandfather) knew that I mustn't go into the light. I even believe I remember he told me something like I wasn't finished with something???

I believe I am here today (maybe) to do something, but I don't know what it is. I only know it's important.

I am much more sensitive, emotional today than I was prior to the experience.

Thank you for reading.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  01/12/2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   The accident itself.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   None.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       None.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not recall hearing any sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I feel with deep certainty that I met with my mother's father.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A white light, like a corridor entrance. Everything around was dark, black.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     But I don't know whether that is because of the experience or because of the accident.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     But I don't know whether that is because of the experience or because of the accident.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The memory is fragmented. It seems to be between a dream and reality.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I had heard about near death experiences before, but I hadn't paid much attention.  This happened a few weeks ago, and since then more and more about what happened has been coming back to me. Also, since it happened, I have been doing some research on the Internet about near death experiences.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      At first I thought that the experience was probably not real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Now I think that the experience was probably real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christophe_nde.html