{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christine_s_nde_238.html","mytitle":"Christine S NDE 238\/432","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christine S NDE 238/432  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christine S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1402 Christine S NDE 238  					  				  			      			  			  				    Experience Description 432:  					</p>  					Okay, here is my experience to the best of my ability to convey it; the circumstances that led up to it; and the thoughts and feelings in the weeks following it.

I had a very serious car crash on May 25, 2000. I was driving on an unfamiliar rode and took a curve at a very high rate of speed. My car struck a 'culvert' (I'm still not even sure what that is, but it was written on my crash report) after the culvert, I split a telephone pole in half, went eight feet airborne, hit a steel billboard support post and I came to rest upside down against a tree. The state trooper told my husband, that when he saw the vehicle he was positive that they would be scraping me from the inside of the car. The passenger side door was torn off - the engine was in the front seat - the car was beyond totaled and was number five on the 1-5 scale of crash severity. The damage was indescribable, and I have two pictures that remind me daily of how lucky I am that I survived. My husband said he almost threw up when he saw the car. I was told that I wasn't wearing my seat belt. When I started to regain consciousness, I was still trapped inside the vehicle. I could hear machinery and voices around me.  All I could see was trees and faces that were hanging over me. My seat had collapsed somehow and I ended up lying perfectly flat underneath the steering wheel, and that is most likely what saved my life. I have absolutely no memory of the crash itself. I remember driving before the crash occurred and next I remember waking up to the Jaws of Life prying my car apart to get me out. I think that I must have seen the impact coming and this is most likely when the NDE manifested itself. It's important that I say I was never pronounced clinically dead, but the threat of death was very real indeed and has to be what brought about the experience. I must have thought, without any doubt, that I was goner - even though I don't remember consciously thinking this at any point. I guess when one sees themselves hurtling toward a telephone pole at an enormous rate of speed, one would think themselves definitely about to die - although I still cannot remember consciously 'seeing it coming' - that is probably a blessing in disguise.

Following the accident, while driving past telephone poles, I saw them all as crosses and sometimes still stare at them, mesmerized by how much they do resemble a cross at the very top.

What I remember is feeling the most excruciating pain/pleasure feeling imaginable. It was intense all-consuming agony building and releasing into the most intense ecstasy - euphoria, absolutely indescribable but I 'knew' that I had felt Christ. I felt the crucifixion and I knew without any doubt that I had experienced exactly what Jesus experienced on the cross - I felt completely one with Him, meaning I actually felt that I WAS Him. I became everything that Jesus was. There was intense pain and suffering and then release - followed by pure ecstasy. I did not see any light ever, at any time. I was in a 'nothingness', a blackness or a void, and I was alone as in I didn't see anyone else, but I didn't feel alone because I felt unity with everyone and everything. I knew without even a hesitation that everyone and everything in the entire universe is connected into one; that we are each a part of everything - I knew that I was eternal (and I remember being so thankful to discover that eternity is true and has never been a lie or myth). I remember thinking, 'Oh my God. I am dead!!!!!!' And I remember thinking that it was the most beautiful thing that could have ever happened to me - the happiest day of my entire existence - there was nothing sad about it, like I always thought there would be. The only emotions I felt were pure joy, ecstasy and bliss at receiving the knowledge of immortality. It wasn't a feeling or a thought, it was a knowing. And, I remember thinking how I could not wait to tell my husband that we really would be together for an absolute eternity! And I remember thanking God repeatedly that eternity is real.

When I came into consciousness, still trapped in the vehicle, the first thing I am told I said (I do not remember) to the state trooper was, 'What does ecstasy feel like?'

I remember grabbing a handful of pictures (of my kids) that were beside me in what was left of the console, and starting to push with my legs to get out of car. The paramedics told me to stay still, but I didn't. I remember thinking, 'Yeah right - I'm not staying in here one second longer.' And I pushed even harder. They put their hands under my arms then and pulled me out.

The nurses tending to me in the emergency room were commenting on how pretty my jewelry was; I was wearing bracelets that said, love and heaven and had cherubs and angels on them. I had just bought them the morning of the crash.

In the emergency room, I asked a doctor, 'What is a stigmata?' He told me that it is someone who bears the wounds of Christ. I didn't know then that my injuries were similarly (not exactly!) placed to the wounds of Christ; cuts across my hairline, cuts on the bottoms of both feet, both hands injured. What I did know, beyond any doubt, was that I had completely felt Christ.

In the CAT scan machine, it reminded me of the tomb.

I kept rambling to my friends that I was going to probably have a baby (this baby was born on May 1 of this year).

The first thing I did upon getting to my hospital room was to grab the Bible. I started writing down every passage I came across about unconditional love and the second coming. I talked repeatedly about the second coming, and literally believed that it would be happening at any second.

(When I was first in the hospital I believed that I had been 'raptured' and was now in a sort of waiting place.)

In the first weeks after the experience, I felt completely in sync with nature and animals and children. The two days in the hospital, I felt a mind-connection with my nurses; when they brought my discharge papers and left the room, I became very upset about having to leave - I was literally terrified to go back into the 'real world'. Within five minutes of this overwhelming dread, the nurse came back in my room and told me that I could stay another night if I wanted to. I said nothing to anyone about not wanting to leave.

One of my nurses said to me, 'Do you remember being here yet?' I said, 'I have never been here before.' She said, 'You will remember more as time goes on.' Well, I still have absolutely no idea what she meant.

My husband and I had some of the worst fights of our lives in the weeks after this all happened, and that took something away from me - he would not allow me to stay in the frame of mind that I wanted to last forever.

For the first weeks, I still felt as if I was 'one' with Jesus that I could do anything that He could do. A family member told me that he could 'see the spirit in my eyes', that they were almost glowing.

I felt what I perceived to be the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.

I remember my step-daughter cut her finger, I kissed it and it stopped bleeding. She thought I literally made it stop bleeding with the kiss!

I'm not going to try to say that my experience proves without a doubt that there is an afterlife, but it's all the proof I will ever need.

Most importantly for me is that I also now have all the proof I will ever need that Jesus and the Holy Spirit exist inside of each one of us.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 25, 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was in a car crash and, although I do not remember 'seeing it coming', I think I must have seen myself hurtling toward the telephone pole at a high rate of speed, and this could definitely be perceived as the moment that I would die.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I did not look down and see my body, but I did not feel that I had a body at all. I was 'me', but I was in a place of complete nothingness, suspended and all I 'saw' was darkness. It wasn't scary and I didn't see anything at all with my eyes. I was just there.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was technically unconscious during the experience, but my consciousness was very much alive - I did not feel 'asleep' - I was the most alert and aware as I had ever been in my entire existence.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no space or time. For a few weeks after the experience, I felt very out of touch with 'time'.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear any sounds or noises.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't recall passing through a tunnel but it felt like a 'passing through'. I remember thinking of it in terms of being born, passing from horrible pain into the most wonderful pleasure imaginable. And I felt Christ pass through me, but there were no visible tunnels, I saw nothing, I only felt.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Ecstasy, joy, bliss, overwhelming happiness, rapture, euphoria, utopia???

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew without a doubt that everyone and everything in the entire universe is connected into one. Everything made perfect sense and fitted together.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I don't remember being 'told' that I was going to have a baby (no one ever spoke to me or communicated anything to me). But, I talked a lot after the experience about how I thought I was going to have a baby. This baby was born on May 1st of this year.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   united methodist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer question the existence of an afterlife or of Jesus. I believe that reincarnation is likely, not just possible, although I have no proof of this and cannot say positively.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard for me to even express why it is so hard to express!!! It was the most monumental thing that could have ever happened to me. It is beyond adequate, ordinary words. Even words like 'ecstasy' and 'bliss' do not do it justice.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I felt mentally connected to some people, but not everyone. Mostly nurses in the hospital. I think I telepathically communicated to one of them that I was afraid to leave the hospital, as I said nothing to anyone about that. A few seconds after I had these overwhelming feelings of dread about having to go back into the real world, the nurse came in and told me I could stay another night if I wanted to.  I wasn't reading them; they were reading me, but I was aware of it and have never been aware of any such things before.  There was also an instance with a parking booth attendant a few days later at a city building; he knew I had a car accident and there was no plausible way he could have known.  Another strange occurrence was when my husband and I stopped at a fast food restaurant (four days after the crash) and I waited in the car. I began to feel horribly nauseas and thought I was going to be sick. A matter of seconds after the onset of the feelings, a girl came out the back door and vomited on the ground. I felt perfectly fine after that. It seems like a really disgusting experience, but it happened just the same and it seemed very coincidental to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was knowing that I am eternal. The worst part was readjusting to this place, and that is still an ongoing process.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some didn't believe and thought I had a 'psychotic episode'. Some believed and were totally captured by the whole thing.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   But I wish I could reproduce the experience.    


				  					Experience Description 238:  					</p>  					On May 24, 2000, I experienced a car crash that 'they' say should have killed me. I still don't remember the accident at all -- I remember getting into my car, but I do not remember pulling out of the driveway at all. I am told that the first thing I said to the police was, 'What does ecstasy feel like?' When I got to the hospital, I asked the doctor, 'What is a stigmata?' I remember experiencing what I have now come to know as a near death experience.

There was a point when I knew that I was dead. I remember seeing car headlights and knowing that they were angels. I felt absolute total and complete ecstasy and an intense thankfulness that Heaven was real, that I was eternal and would absolutely never die. I was hearing bits and pieces of music, 'Thought I'd died and gone to heaven.' 'I want to lay you down on a bed of roses, while tonight I sleep on a bed of nails, I want to be just as close as the Holy Ghost is.' The experience is still very foggy in many ways for me. The intense (it was SO intense that I can't find strong enough words to describe!) feelings of ecstasy I had, involved knowledge on every level that I would be One with my husband, Kevin, and with our children, families and friends for all of eternity, and I was so thankful to God that eternity was real!! As I said, the feeling was so intense at one point that it is impossible to adequately describe, but that is the part where I knew that my husband and I would be together in heaven with our babies, friends and families always and that we would never feel any kind of pain again.

I remember feeling Jesus -- actually feeling completely one with Him -- feeling like I had been literally crucified as if He was. I saw an entire review of my life, but the birth of my children and my marriage to my husband were the most memorable. I felt absolute rapturous joy knowing that Heaven was very real and it had never been a lie or myth! Then all of my feelings of ecstasy were replaced by an unbearably intense fear -- I was suddenly driving aimlessly in the car on dark desolate roads, seeing nothing besides black alleys and a few stragglers here and there. Everywhere I looked, I saw 'Jesus Saves' signs in neon red and churches and I remember being absolutely horror-stricken that the rapture, the thief in the night, had happened. My friends and family were gone and I was left behind to search for them. I remember KNOWING that the rapture had occurred and I was in hell on earth. I kept hearing the song 'Highway to Hell' and trying to change the station, but my dial would not move. Then, I remember hearing Ozzy Osborne, 'See You on the Other Side', and The Red Hot Chili Peppers, 'Take It On the Other Side'. And I remember waking up to the Jaws of Life trying to pry me out and bright lights shined in my eyes.

I think I remember a comment about my pupils not looking right, and I remember making myself become as aware as possible of what was going on around me. Everyone was sure I was drunk or on drugs -- neither -- I was told my toxicology was clean, aside from a low amount of alcohol. The strangest part of the entire experience for me was that I 'remember' waking up in different accident scenes involving myself. I have to include that none of these situations actually happened. The first time I came to, I remember being hysterical and demanding to know where my ex-husband was. The male paramedic told me, 'Don't worry about him. They are taking care of him. He was dead and covered by a sheet.' I started crying about how he ran me off the road, trying to kill me because he thought I was taking our daughter out of the country! A female paramedic shook her head, called him a son-of-a-b****, and said, 'This is the kind of stuff that you read about in the papers every day!'

The next thing I remember is coming to.  I was thinking that I was inside of our conversion van, (the state trooper did tell my husband that I thought I was in a van) that my ex-husband had kidnapped me from my driveway and drove me to every single place he and I had ever shared together, trying to convince me that I wanted him. I asked the paramedics (or police or whomever!) where my ex-husband was -- they told me that I was alone in the car -- I said the name of a specific church (which I cannot remember) and he said, 'Maam, you are a long way from there.' And I could hear them speculating as to why I would be talking about this place. The next time I came to was the 'real' scene -- I do not remember asking the state trooper what ecstasy feels like!!!!! I remember hearing the machinery of them trying to get me out -- the Jaws of Life. I remember beginning to hyperventilate which is something I have done often in the past. The medic said to me, 'If you are a hyper ventilator, we are going to have some problems.' And I literally STOPPED right then and there!

I remember crying for my husband and begging them to call him at work and telling them the number. I remember answering questions about who I was, where from, had I been drinking or shooting up heroin or cocaine!!!! (NEVER IN MY LIFE!!) I told them everything about myself and my husband; my social security number; birthday; age; name; kids names; dad's name and telephone number; address -- please get my husband I kept crying. I grabbed a handful of pictures of my children that I knew were in the console beside me and I started pushing myself out of the car. I had NO IDEA until days later that I was UPSIDE DOWN! When I started to push my way out, they told me to stop and I did not stop until they grabbed me by the arms and pulled me out, onto the stretcher. I remember bits and pieces of the ambulance ride, bits and pieces of arriving in the emergency room. I remember specifically asking about the stigmata, when they x-rayed my right hand, they shaped it into the LOVE sign (I thought) and I remember thinking this was pretty odd!

I kept thinking about the Immaculate Conception and the crucifixion and the last temptation of Christ. I was asked to get on my own hospital bed, which I did. My stay in the hospital was very odd, as well. I felt absolutely certain that I was in Purgatory -- that the rapture had occurred and I was just waiting for all of my loved ones to come and be with me -- I did not want to leave the hospital at all. They let me stay a day longer than I had to, they seemed to always know what I wanted or needed without me even having to press the call button. After they told me I could go home, when I was alone in my room, I cried and bawled because I didn't want to go, and less than five minutes later, a nurse came in and told me that I didn't have to go yet if I didn't want to, that I could stay overnight, and I did. I remember thinking that we were all telepathically connected -- many of my nurses commented to me that they were Libra's also, and the same age as me. Every person looked familiar to me and many told me that I looked familiar. I was afraid to leave, because I thought someone might try to kill me! I asked if I was on the psychiatric floor and she assured me I was not and that I would not be going there anytime soon!!

I immediately began writing with my broken hand when I got to my room -- some very strange and uncharacteristic things -- especially anti-government things and I repeatedly kept saying that the government as a whole is the Antichrist. I was also watching the news and seeing other accidents that had occurred for absolutely no reason; a semi-truck that jack-knifed off the road for no visible reason, the driver had been killed. The most important information I remember 'coming back with' is that ALL OF US are completely ONE with God, each other and the planet, the entire universe. The key to eternal life in Heaven is unconditional love, acceptance and forgiveness (the very entity of Jesus!!!) and until we adopt a character and lifestyle consistent with Christ (LOVE) we will not get into Heaven. At the end of our life, though, we will ALL still be given every opportunity to make the right choice -- the choice of Jesus and unconditional love for ALL people!! Until we let go of our grudges, prejudices, and ill-feelings and replace them with love, compassion, and forgiveness, we will not be able to enter into Heaven. I wrote stuff about man-made products being poisonous and that we MUST rely totally on natural products and remedies in order to truly be healthy. An important side-note for me is that I have not taken any medication since the accident. I insisted that we are right now in the final days of Revelations -- that our hell on earth is beginning and that the second coming is NEAR. (I actually thought it was HERE for about two entire days after my discharge from the hospital.)

It is my belief that the reason I went through the Hellish part of the NDE as well as the Ecstasy part is because in my entire life, I have NEVER believed that I was worthy of God's forgiveness. I have always believed in Jesus, but I have not EVER had any faith that He would forgive my sins. I am positive that is why I was put through 'hell' -- and I know that I did not actually go to hell, ever -- I was put through what I immediately deemed my own personal Last Temptation. Satan or another demon did everything in its power to turn me AWAY from the beautiful ecstasy that I had just seconds ago been immersed in. It still frustrates me Greatly to not be able to find adequate words to describe the feelings that I had when I first 'died' and realized that I was FAR from dead -- I was the most alive I had ever been!!!! I do not remember seeing God or Jesus -- what I felt HAD to be HIM though -- I KNEW that I was ONE with Jesus and God, just like the Bible says we are. That I was made in His image to be like Him. I knew that I was eternal and that God loved me unconditionally and would not EVER turn his back on me, or any of his children. I also 'knew' that EVERYONE (especially non-believers) would have every opportunity to choose to be with God. I have been confused as to why the demon that was in my car presenting itself as my ex-husband appeared to me AFTER my Ecstasy with Jesus. I can only figure that it was a last-ditch effort on Satan's part to get me to turn my back on all that I Love.

The car crash itself, I went eight feet airborne, split a telephone pole in half, went through the center of a billboard, hit a tree and landed on the topside of the car (a 2000 Cavalier). I covered a fifty feet distance and did not have my seatbelt on. The troopers thought they would be scraping me from the car. I was very much intact!! My injuries totally consisted of a broken right hand; a twisted left pinky finger; cuts and contusions across my forehead hairline; cuts and contusions to the bottoms of my feet; numerous horrible bruises all over my legs and a few on my arms; and I had a concussion. When I looked at the placement of my injuries, it did make me think about the crown of thorns, and the hands and feet wounds that were inflicted on Christ. I have read a lot on the subject and it does not sound like a stigmatic experience, as the wounds were not spontaneous. But I remember lying in the cat-scan machine 'knowing' that I had been a stigmata and knowing that I was supposed to tell the world to prepare for the second coming of Christ because it is near. And when I asked the doctor what a stigmata was, I know that I already knew the answer -- so why did I ask?

This experience has invigorated me, enlightened me, yet it has absolutely terrified me as well. Also, when I had left to go out that evening, I had a conversation with my five year old daughter about God. She was afraid to sleep in her two year old brother's room with a picture of God looking at her. She was afraid that God might see her do something bad and she didn't want to go to the devil. I assured her that she would never go to the devil that she is a child of God and she would not ever be going to the devil. I told her that even if God did see her do something bad, HE would forgive her if she asked to be forgiven and meant it! I told her that God loved her and would never send her to the devil just so long as she believed in him and in baby Jesus. And, I let her sleep in her own room, and I went out to return my friend's license twenty minutes away and never made it there, because I was wrecked an hour past her house because I made a left-hand turn on a road that I had known to go right on for the past five or more years.

I also told her that I 'remember' sitting on the porch showing her all of the really cool 'heaven' bracelets and anklets I had bought just hours before, with the intention of giving them to my children and other children at a boat club that we were members of. I think it is also very important to mention that I was wearing two of these at the time of the crash, one that said Heaven (that I have not removed) and one that said Love, which I gave to my stepdaughter. What I wrote in the hospital is very fragmented and abstract as thoughts came to me -- I might as well include some of it here -- Rock 'n roll is not the evil. The world leaders are the evil. They don't want us to be one with God -- they take away our right to pray -- well, we better start praying with all our might right now believe me. I am far from insane, please believe me please. WE are the chosen ones -- we are one with God, trinity, father, Son, Holy Ghost. We die in threes, we are born in threes. No matter what we do, once we are saved, we will always be saved and God will never turn his back on us. Just like, we have never totally turned our backs on each other. He will take us out of this world before he allows us to do anything to endanger our own souls. Once we are saved by Love we will all live together in perfect harmony!!! Satan can not be allowed to stop us -- he will NOT stop us :):):):):):):):) Good WILL prevail in the End. JD (ex-husband), you WILL see Carla (his deceased sister) again soon, she is waiting for us, we WERE destined for something big (he always used to say he thought he was). ALL of us! Kevin (my husband) always trust me to do what is right I will never lie to you or hurt you! You are my heart and soul, you are the love of all my life, Kevin, my 'superman, kryptonite' and I am SO 'amazed' by you! You have to find the strength to believe in me and trust me even if you are afraid. Nothing will ever take you from me -- you and I will be One for Eternity and we will have our Ecstasy soon. Kevin, we never die and neither will our love!!! Carla (my ex-sister-in-law who was in a car crash in 1992 that left her in a vegetative state for three months) died and we didn't get it. Jade (my daughter diagnosed with Wilms' tumor at ten months old) almost died and we still didn't get it. Grandma died and we started to get it. I almost died and finally we WILL get it! That's only some of what I wrote.

Of course, my family and friends struggled with thoughts that I am totally crazy. My mental-health professional has assured me that I am not. She instructed me to research NDE online and to keep in mind that I will NEVER find the answers that I need in mainstream society. She told me that, without a doubt, a higher power is speaking to me. I was told by one person that I was 'tripping on my own brain juices' from the adrenaline rush of the crash itself. While that is a nice cozy explanation, I know that it is not what happened to me. Of course, I was also asked if I was lying!!! As if I would make up something so fanatical!!!!!!!!!!

I insisted that we are right now in the final days of Revelations -- that our hell on earth is beginning and that the second coming is NEAR (I actually thought it was HERE for about two entire days after my discharge from the hospital). It is my belief that the reason I went through the Hellish part of the NDE as well as the Ecstasy part is because my entire life, I have NEVER believed that I was worthy of God's forgiveness. I have always believed in Jesus, but I have not EVER had any faith that He would forgive my sins. I am positive that is why I was put through 'hell' -- and I know that I did not actually go to hell, ever -- I was put through what I immediately deemed my own personal Last Temptation. Satan or another demon did everything in its power to turn me AWAY from the beautiful ecstasy that I had just seconds ago been immersed in, It still frustrates me Greatly to not be able to find adequate words to describe the feelings that I had when I first 'died' and realized that I was FAR from dead -- I was the most alive I had ever been!!!! I do not remember seeing God or Jesus -- what I felt HAD to be HIM though -- I KNEW that I was ONE with Jesus and God, just like the Bible says we are. That I was made in His image to be like Him. I knew that I was eternal and that God loved me unconditionally and would not EVER turn his back on me, or any of his children. I also 'knew' that EVERYONE (especially non-believers) would have every opportunity to choose to be with God. I have been confused as to why the demon that was in my car presenting itself as my ex-husband appeared to me AFTER my Ecstasy with Jesus. I can only figure that it was a last-ditch effort on Satan's part to get me to turn my back on all that I Love.

I still do not remember the crash itself and I have not yet obtained the full crash report or photos of the scene, but I will have them within the next few weeks. I do have two photos of my car that my husband took. Another important piece of this entire thing is that the night before the crash, a friend was in my car with me and we were driving to see my husband at work. I totally kept missing the exits that I needed to get there. I drove a complete circle around where he works -- we even saw the building from the expressway and I STILL did NOT GO THE RIGHT WAY until I totally focused on my friend and let her tell me exactly where to go. She went home and told her fiance how 'freaky' I had been about not being able to get us there! Then, the next night is when I crashed.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  5-24-2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Car crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was not aware of or concerned with my body at all.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt acutely conscious and alert.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard rock music nearly the entire time, modern songs, 'Thought I'd Died and Gone To Heaven'; 'Highway To Hell'; 'See you on the Other Side', 'Take it on the Other Side'.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember passing through anything.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw six huge lights coming toward me and was positive they were angels.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Ecstasy, joy, love, fear, panic, dread.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew that I was eternal, that every one of us are. Our purpose is Love -- the achievement of unconditional love and acceptance.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     The most prominent events were the births of my two children and my marriages.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I said many things about the antichrist and about the second coming of Christ being near (I woke up thinking to myself that it was literally happening though but not saying exactly that to anyone).

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I've always believed in God and Jesus, but I've always doubted that Jesus would actually forgive me -- I know for a fact now that He does and always will. I believe one hundred percent in reincarnation now, and I was always skeptical of it in the past. I now believe totally that angels and demons surround us all daily, sometimes in the flesh, sometimes in spirit.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have had a hard time finding words strong enough to describe the feelings I had during the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     In the hospital, I felt as if most of what I felt, wanted or needed was telepathically communicated because many of the needs were met without me saying a word to anyone but myself. There have been people occasionally over the last month that I have felt connected to in such a way.'

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was discovering that Heaven and Eternal Life are absolutely real; the worst part was when I thought I was left behind during the Rapture, Armageddon.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most of my friends and family reacted with deep interest and did believe me. Of course, most of them have had a hard time grasping a lot of it because it did not happen to them! I've had one person say I was on an adrenalin high (tripping on my own brain juices) and one person ask me if I was lying.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christine_s_nde_238.html