{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christine_s_nde_268.html","mytitle":"Christine S NDE 268","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christine S NDE 268  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christine S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1390 Christine S NDE 268  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember passing out from the smoke and not being able to breath. I remember becoming aware of being in a dark place. There was no sound it was just dark. I seemed to be waiting there. Then I began to move toward a brightly lit area. The area appeared to be a bright yellow wall with uneven sections that had definite lines running along it. Along the lines, the edges were faintly pink. I was floating along this wall but could only see one side of it as if my back was against the other side. Yet I had no sense of having a body. I was just aware. As I continued to move along, I became aware of a feeling of horror. That's what I remember feeling. I had the intense urge to get out of there. I kept saying to myself that I have to get out of here. I repeated it several times and then I felt myself falling and everything was black again. I woke up in the emergency room with all of these doctors and nurses around me asking me if I knew who I was.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  8-21-81

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    fire  Clinical death   Dead on arrival from carbon monoxide poisoning from fire.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was me but had no awareness of having a body but I was definitely aware of myself.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very aware.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew I wasn't here.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When I came back I felt as though I was falling through a tunnel

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   But not a point of light. It was just lit up.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The area I was in was definitely a place but it went on and on unchanging.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first nothing, but as I was moving along the unchanging wall I began to feel horror about being there.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     The wall. But I only moved along it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I made myself come back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I fear death intensely because the horror of the place where I was, was due to the fact that I was totally alone.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Unable to explain feelings and location.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There was no best part. The worst part was being in that place alone.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They say that's interesting but I don't know if they believe me. They seem more interested in the fact that I died.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christine_s_nde_268.html