{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christine_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Christine S NDE 2424","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christine S NDE 2424  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christine S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						736  Christine S NDE  2424  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

  					  At approximately 7:00 am I fell asleep while driving. My car went off the road and when I tried to get back on I over corrected and hit a tree. I was thrown twenty feet out of the car. My injuries were; five vertebrae in my back and one in my neck were fractured, broke the femur on my right leg, broke the tibia/fibula and smashed the ankle on my left leg, both of my scapulas were broken, nine ribs were broken but, the most life threatening was my right shoulder. It had been torn open and was bleeding profusely. I don't remember the accident, but I do remember seeing my dad. He passed away June 2002, but that morning I saw him very clearly. He was standing above me, looking down, and he said 'Not now little one, we need you here.' There was a bright light all around him and behind him. He was glowing. I felt very safe and very loved. The next thing I remember is thinking that I was being abducted by aliens, but it was the helicopter ride that I was taking to the hospital. After this I remember waking up in the hospital and telling my brothers, 'I saw dad.'

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Septmeber 18, 2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I didn't have a pulse or blood pressure because I lost a lot of blood.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more aware of my emotions. I felt safer than ever before in my life.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my dad appeared and told me to stay.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I wasn't aware that I was dying, but time definitely seemed to not exist.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was very bright and perfect. Crystal clear.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My dad, he said 'Not now little one, we need you here.'  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was surrounding my dad. He was glowing in it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, safety.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I now know that my soul will go on to a beautiful place. No longer afraid of dying.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I think I am more aware of love and hate now. I can see my mistakes more clearly.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have the same intuition I had before. I can hear the phone ring before it does and I know who it is. I can sing a song and it will be playing on the radio at the exact same time.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Most importantly I saw my dad and I know we will be together someday.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    That day. My step-mom cried.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   When I was fourteen I had an OBE. I was reading about OBE and that very night I had one. I was literally thrown out of my body. I landed on the floor of my bedroom. I could see my physical body sleeping in the bed. I was very afraid and sucked right back in.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real and not my subconscious mind wandering or tricking me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know I'm lucky to be alive, but even better I got to see another dimension.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christine_s_nde.html