{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christine_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Christine R NDE 3217","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christine R NDE 3217  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christine R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1217 Christine R NDE 3217  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

An old man driving a camper turned left in front of us; we were doing fifty-five mph at the time of impact. I broke the rear view mirror with my head and flew through the windshield. I remember waking up to my friend screaming that she killed me (she was driving). I don't remember how I got into the ambulance, but once in I fell into a deep sleep, no pain. Suddenly, I was out of my body looking down at the emergency medical technician trying to get my pulse and saying, 'We're losing her,' over and over again, and my friend screaming, 'She's dead, don't die Chris!'
  					  
I could see every detail of the ambulance, my body position, my friend's posture, the emergency medical technician's movements and instruments he was using to try to get my pulse back, even the color of the blanket that was wrapped around me. And even though I could see myself, I knew it wasn't me. I had no feeling of panic or fear, just a passing interest of what was occurring.

Within seconds of observing my lifeless body, I found myself traveling through a tunnel of sorts at lightning speed, sort of like the 'Star Wars' movie 'time warp.' It was as though all energy of the universe was passing by me, and soon there were specks of bright white light converging into a glaring white light. It felt like a rocket-propelled orgasm. This feeling was like no other I had experienced and like no other I have experienced since then - it was as if providence was holding me. Then, I heard the voice of God in my head, and all at once, he asked me, 'Have you loved enough? Have you learned enough? Have you experienced enough?' I suddenly realized that I had not done the things he had asked of me, and I screamed, 'No!' I need to do more time. And just like that, boom! I was back in my body moaning from the pain.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    spring 1974

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  I was in a car accident, and when rescued, the emergency medical technicians lost my pulse; basically, I died.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was more alert immediately after they lost my pulse and I was above my body watching the emergency medical technician work on me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was no time; time was speeding by me at a lightening pace.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Everything was more distinct, sounds, movement. Some things were transparent.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    My hearing was exceptional, in that I could hear every word they spoke, even though they spoke over one another.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was more like the 'tunnel' passed around me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light became more collected the farther down the tunnel I got.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      At first I felt calm, then while traveling through the 'tunnel' I felt orgasmic.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I am a practicing Christian, where before I was wandering.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am a practicing Christian, where before I was wandering.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   WE are here to love, learn, and experience.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I felt a hot energy emanating from my hands to heal. Also, my ability to weed out evil people increased.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       All of it is meaningful to me. The first part verifies it was real, or how else would I know what happened in that ambulance when I was unconscious?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only people very close to me, about five people in thirty-eight years. It took me almost five years to even mention what happened, and about ten years to go into detail.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Because of the details and the questions asked of me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christine_r_nde.html