{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christine_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Christine L Probable NDE 8233","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christine L Probable NDE 8233  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christine L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						4306 Christine L Probable NDE 8233  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Check it out at:  Click Here


   I remember that I  went to the toilet to be sick over the side of it. I only remember hearing the sounding of rustling, similar to a paper of crumpling sound. I did not realize the rustling sound was coming from me. I felt no pain.  In fact, it was rather like falling asleep and hearing the noise through a bedroom window. The noise became quite loud, which is why I heard it.  But then the noise became insignificant.  I felt like I was in a peaceful and deep, slowly fading and extremely tranquil sleep. This was the deepest nicest sleep I have ever felt. 

  				 That realization was fading away and becoming smaller and smaller.  I was still not aware that I had been ill or sick, but was just in the present.  The fading away was so nice that I felt my lips smile, but that is all. I then heard two people arguing, a man and a woman.  The man had a strong Scottish accent. I did not recognize the woman's voice.  My granddad said very angrily, 'No she cannot come here.  What are we supposed to tell her?' then, 'What the hell am I supposed to say?'  He was angry with the lady and the lady was interrupting him saying, 'Why not, why not?' 

  				 Suddenly, I was literally thrown up from the ground onto my feet, when my leg immediately slumped.  I collapsed into a sideways, sitting position. I could not see anything.  I could not breath and was getting very labored trying to take air in and was making loud, wheezing noises. I was getting really uncomfortable and tired.  I felt myself falling down the staircase sideways but still could not see.  I leaned against the wall of the staircase, still trying to breathe. I then must have lost consciousness. I woke up at the bottom of the staircase and realized I could not get up.  I open my mouth to shout for help as I though a passer by might hear. Instead, a garbled sound came out of my mouth. I then realized that I was starting to see a grey outline around everything.  This  was the start of my sight coming back. After about 30 minutes, I was able to sit, but my body starting jerking back and forth rhythmically.  Eventually, I felt well enough to crawl over to the phone and call the doctor. The doctor said I had vomit in my hair and had choked on it due to the anaphylactic shock from my allergy. He also said that I was very lucky to be alive.  I had almost died. I  can now say in all truthfulness that if I had died, I would not have felt any pain or even realized that I was actually dying at the time. 

  				 I have since written a story that has real life near and after death accounts, including mine, intertwined through the fictitious character of the book. I hope  that it will help others who are dying so they don't   fear death or think that loved ones who have died were feeling pain at the moment of death.

Background Information:

Gender:      Female

Date NDE Occurred:        2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic Reaction.   Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.  I do not know thta the sound of the rasping and gurgling was me.  I did not feel pain.  I lost awareness of my body.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Yes, there was a feeling of great peace, euphoria, safeness, happiness and warmth.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I could hear the sounds, but only as a listener. There was no pain or awareness, just being there in the present and feeling very tranquil.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     It was all in the present at that time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was all sound and darkness. They say that hearing is the last thing to go.  That is definitely true in my case.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was similar, but it was only hearing accompanied by higher level feelings that I do not normally feel.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I explained this earlier about my grandfather.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt happiness, great peace while in  a happy deep sleep and  I felt my lips smile.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to lif.e   I was thrown up onto my feet, only to collapse into a heap.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know.   I did not follow a religion at all.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     It is a sense of being; a feeling with sound for me.  It felt very pleasant and I didn't have the  idea that I could not breath or was even ill.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes.     I just know that dying is not painful, but is warm and peaceful.  There is something else, but perhaps one will not be able to think about their past or future once that happens.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes.     I was only able to think in the actual moment in an accepting, just being there sort-of-way.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes.     There was no past or future.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes.   I know that there is something else that is pleasant after you die.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It was all a feeling similar to love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life.     I know that for me dying will not be as painful as I would have imagined. There is something else after one dies.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I remember it all clearly and as I have outlined.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most meaningful is the fact I could hear myself dying, but did not know it was me. I did not feel like I was dying, but  only heard it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes.    Only my family and the doctor.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The same as I have always viewed it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I view it the same as after it happened because it is what happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christine_l_probable_nde.html