{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christine_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Christine E NDE 2569","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christine E NDE 2569  			  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christine E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						825  Christine E NDE  2569  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					I found myself walking in a valley. I remember words coming into my mind, 'So this is the valley of the shadow...' There was a white mist surrounding me. I was unable to see through it except that they was a brilliant white light - as if the sun was shining behind the clouds. I floated into the air and looked down (at myself). The words or 'voice' in the back of my mind said we can't have this. There's a little girl I have to get back to (or words to that effect). I was that voice, a 'still small voice'. In my mind, I somehow 'folded' into myself and was inside my body again. I was never frightened at any time - just intensely curious.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	November 1, 1959  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth       Other Loss of blood - requiring transfusion-  A massive loss of blood (persistent hemorrhaging) owing to the trauma of childbirth.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything was so real, sharp. There was this intense curiosity.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was walking along through the valley.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I was strolling along this valley with seemingly 'all the time in the world'.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Very real. Astonishingly so. The brightness was extremely bright but I didn't need to shade my eyes. I just accepted it as 'normal'. I also accepted the 'floating upwards' as normal, as well as the intense curiosity.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Extremely bright. Like blinding sunlight.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       An intense curiosity and the feeling that I needed 'to get back'.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Anglican  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am not sure about this but on reviewing my writing about the subject, I think my life has changed quite considerably because of such an experience. There ARE more things in heaven and earth, etc.  I suppose it is just that I haven't been aware of it.  When my time does come, I am expecting to get up from my chair, walk away into the next dimension, putting aside my body as you would fold a coat and leaving it behind!  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Anglican  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I am not sure about this but on reviewing my writing about the subject, I think my life has changed quite considerably because of such an experience. There ARE more things in heaven and earth, etc.  I suppose it is just that I haven't been aware of it.  When my time does come, I am expecting to get up from my chair, walk away into the next dimension, putting aside my body as you would fold a coat and leaving it behind!  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Not certain at all really. I have now read many books on this kind of thing - curiosity always being a driving force.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   A visual dream-like quality but very real - 'more real than real'.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Very definitely. The out of body was significant. It was quite a surprise. I was never aware that 'myself' could be 'shocked' out of my 'physical' body.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Initially some years. Disbelief. It was considered that I had an over active imagination. So I kept silent until more recent times.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The amazement that the experience was real - more 'real than real'!  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have since had other conscious out of body experiences. I think the ability might be controllable; I have read much of Robert Monroe's work on OB experiences. They are totally believable and credible. By the same token I wouldn't want to 'push my luck' without supervision.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Other events in my life have produced a similar experience. Again similar circumstances of giving birth; to a second daughter.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       With the second OB experience, everything again was more real than real - super real in fact. This time I was in a dense forest, sitting under the most magnificent tree imaginable. Someone came to me, sat down and talked to me. 'He' was dressed in a robe with a hood - of a dark color. We talked. He took my hand and placed it on the bark of the tree. My hand and arm, myself, blended with the tree then I knew and understood everything.  My older daughter and I were able to communicate telepathically 'in pictures' at one stage.  Nowadays, alas because of bias, skepticism, etc., it no longer is.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I can't think of any more at this stage.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christine_e_nde.html