{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chrissie_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Chrissie B NDE 822\/4656","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chrissie B NDE 822/4656  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christine B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						329  Christine B NDE  822  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description 4656:  					</p>  					I simply went for a caesarian section. It was an emergency because the baby had no amniotic fluid in the sac and he was going to be three months premature. I was not too concerned, as I had had a c'sarian birth eleven years earlier. During the operation, they discovered something called placenta previa and could not stem the bleeding. I had to have sixty-five units of blood to replace the continual flow. The machines would not pump fast enough so they got a nurse and other people to pump. Apparently, they felt there was no hope. I was in the intensive care unit for five days when I suddenly woke.
  					    
To me there was no time. I had the most beautiful experience, which can never be described with words! I had moved across fields and under oceans (where I could breathe) then sped through a tunnel-like form, spiraling upwards (forty-five degrees). Then there it was, the brightest light or brighter than you can imagine, like an aura all round, there was a then sense of spiritual being all at peace all as one. I spoke (without really speaking, like knowing what people thought) to an old aunty who had died. I said to everyone (through my thoughts) I'M HOME AT LAST!!!

I was so happy! It was such a pure relief. Just as I was about to settle into being 'Home' again, there came this calm, steady, male-like voice which said Quote: 'You must go back, you have more lessons to teach.' There I was, back in my body.

I opened my eyes and I heard people say, 'She's awake.' I really felt a little disappointed, but I knew it was all part of the 'deal.' I saw my mother first and knew something must have happened because I went in that Monday morning for surgery and spoke to her three thousand miles away, so she could not get there in that 'short' time. But by now it was Saturday and I had been on life support since.

Long after, I still recall with clarity the exact view, feel, and words 'spoken' to me. I mean exact, never a different context even when people say are you sure. He didn't say, 'You have more lessons to learn,' which may make sense to people but when you have 'been there' you then know and come back with responsibility. After twenty years I continue this to sort out responsibility working in a remote Indigenous community on a small tropical island north of Australia.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 3, 1991
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Childbirth    Other: 'was connected to a life support system in ICU, after child birth, told they could not stem bleeding and then machines could not keep up the blood supply. Doctors said later that there was no medical reason why I was alive.'  But I was unaware. I had bled to 'death' during an emergency caesarian.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was in the bright light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the bright light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No space or defined dimension, no gravity, no time of any sense on earth.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was totally defined clear, vivid and the 'whiteness' was still able to be seen without any strain or concern for harming my eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There weren't really any sort of sounds, but you could still communicate, there was more of a 'knowing' except for the voice that told me you must go back.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Described before, very quickly spiraled through at an angle about forty-five degrees.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     An aunty was 'present' to my left, but I was aware of everyone and saying I'm home at last like I could not take a smile off my face/spirit they were welcoming but the voice came (almost spoilt the party) you must go back.  There was no questioning the voice; it was 'known' that this was to be followed, like a destiny.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was all light everywhere, brighter than any sun, you became part of it, every 'one' was all together as part of it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just this dimesion of total peace love and light

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total peace, joy, relief, happiness beyond any earthly words.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes, never fear death, don't consider suicide as you muck up the 'plan' don't worry about acquiring material goods, they are - well - immaterial! Be kind to everyone, we are all one, somehow somewhere in the end (or beginning).

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'belief in the golden rule, karma type.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Probably even more believing in the ONE spiritual like Being/God, but we are all part of him. People should all read the book 'Conversations with God' for better explanation.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   there is one over all power / director / non-judgmental

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Probably even more believing in the ONE spiritual like Being/God, but we are all part of him. People should all read the book 'Conversations with God' for better explanation.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have already described this above, all as one; we need to learn, or teach, while we are in body form.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't really have any intimate relations any more, just everyone is a human with a purpose only known to them, we cross paths, we keep aiming for peace and happiness and eventually we leave here. (Almost robotic like.) I still look forward to returning but not like I'm depressed and want to die, I just don't mind if I do.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is hard to describe the intensity of the light yet not needing to squint or wear sunglasses you are just part of the light. Also there are beings, like a sense of beings but they are not in human form or any form, just a feeling of spiritual nature all round. I also felt the sense of extraordinary peace. Not one concern or fear, there are no words invented to describe the pure joy. Still brings a tear.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I know where lost things are, I get a sense of warmth, many people now ask for my help to find things. I also work in a counseling field at times and just seem to know the 'inner' problems of people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The voice, and the light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told people straight, people already thought I was a bit out there, so this wouldn't really matter. But the doctors were interested as they said, there is no medical explanation as to why you are alive, it's a miracle, I tried to explain it had nothing to do with them (or my positive attitude) it was all part of the 'plan'. They asked if my records could be used for reference material by trainees and researchers.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It just happened, you can't make up these stories and remember with exact words etc., for over eighteen years, you have nothing to gain, and besides who cares if no one believes, you have nothing to prove. In fact you know you have a special knowledge and you are privileged for there is a lot less confusion about the purpose of life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above, the best thing that ever happened, when my father was dying ten years later of cancer, I kept trying to explain not to be fearful, all will be beautiful. Be thankful for our life on earth but things will even be better beyond. No that may sound weird, but it is true. It made it easier for me to grieve too.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Just thank you, I have never really written about this.    


				  					Experience Description 822:  					</p>  					I was taken to hospital due to complications with my pregnancy.  I was in labor, but three months early.  They decided to perform a caesarean, this is where they discovered 'placenta previa' and then preformed a hysterectomy.  My body was not responding to stemming the blood flow and further complications occurred. My family was thousands of miles away and were warned I would not make it through the night. Sixty-five pints of blood were transfused but still I would not stop bleeding. I was in the intensive care unit on a life support system with staff manually pumping the blood into me, as the machines at the time were not keeping pace with the loss of blood; five operations were performed over the time.  This occurred over five days from Monday 3rd June to Friday 7th June, 1991.


What I distinctly remember to this very day, is firstly a flashing of beautiful scenes, fields, oceans, dolphins, horses, and everything racing.  Then suddenly I left the earth as such entering into a tunnel spiraling upward (not vertically upward) at a lean of thirty degrees say, there was this intense light at the end and then when I exited into the light there was this enormous overwhelming sense of peace love warmth security.  I was at 'home' at last!


The light was intensely white, but it was not harming my vision, but there again there was not really anything to 'see' so to speak, but rather more a sense of 'feeling'. I could 'sense' the 'entities', their welcoming, the pleasure the peace the happiness and utmost relief to be 'back'. But then there was this voice, clear, kind, deliberate, never to be questioned, omnipotent. It simply said these very words, 'You must go back, you have more lessons to teach.' I remember what seemed a nanosecond of disappointment but more so acknowledgement of my duty to fulfill part of the plan.  It certainly was not a reward. Then I awoke! I was confused, I was complacent and tried to tell one and all what had happened.  I thought it was strange that I was sent back, not for the sake of family etc., it was a definite 'purpose' and I knew the 'teaching' was not grade school but 'something different' and that is how my life has been since 'something different'.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    between June 3rd - June 7th 1991

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-relatedChildbirth    Clinical death Apparently clinically dead, had received sixty-five units of blood but still bleeding and all organs were shutting down.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I felt as if I was an entity not in body form.  The body is of no real use, it was of no importance to me.  I was not conscious of it being there or not being there. I was just a spirit, the only important part of existence.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt and know it really happened, I was alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It was more a sense of no time, and definitely a different level of space, The 'higher planes' I now call them.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just a voice at the end telling to return.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I described above.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I described all this before.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Described above, indescribable brightness but you can still see, i.e. you don't have to shield your eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     This level / dimension at the end of the tunnel that was 'home' it was very peaceful and 'beautiful'.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     We all have purposes to fulfill and we obey that order, if we try to intervene we will only have to start all over again and it could be a more difficult 'journey' next time.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     There were lots of visions of life on earth in general and lots of events and people I knew but didn't seem to be much of any order.  I learned a lot, but I don't relate this to a review of life past events.  It had more to do with the peacefulness at the end, the finding a purpose/duty of life, not fearing death etc.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Described above.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Yes, yes, yes.  *no longer fearful of death.  *no longer contemplate suicidal thoughts (knowing this interferes with the 'plan').  *not as materialistic, gave away many, many superfluous household items.  *became minimalistic.  *more interest in karma and Buddhism.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Describing the brightness of the light yet still able to see, the entities, the clear message of the voice but that it was not from a 'person' as we people on earth imagine a being.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I had always been able to 'sense' things and find lost things, which I thought was eerie, but now I take it for granted, e.g. we all probably have this ability but just don't bother to fine tune it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best bit was the peace and happiness of being 'there'.  Worst bit was having to return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Plenty of times.  People have showed interest, but at times are skeptical and questioning but I feel it is only something really believable if you experience this.  Perhaps I need to remind one and all of the saying:  'For those who believe no proof is necessary, for those who don't know proof is possible!'  Oh, and I did remind my dad as he was dying in 2001, not to be afraid etc., etc. I hope that this relieved him a bit.  I didn't feel so devastated when my father died, (just miss his company) as I knew he would be peaceful at last.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Glad at last to put it down in writing.

  </p>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chrissie_b_nde.html