{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christian_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Christian Y NDE 23034","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christian Y NDE 23034  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christian Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3973 Christian Y NDE 23034  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Good day.

On the 8th of July 2013, I was out riding my motorcycle when a car drove through a red light and ran me over. My injuries were so severe, that I went into deep shock and stopped breathing. 

My experience was very brief and began several minutes after the initial impact.  The reports indicate that I was conscious.  I tried to get up and walk around, despite a nearly severed leg and shattered spine, none of which I remember. Within several minutes emergency responders arrived and I was loaded into the ambulance. 

While still at the accident site, I suddenly found myself sitting upright and injury free next to the emergency medical technician (EMT) in the back of an ambulance.  I thought that was really strange as the last thing I remember was the front end of a Mustang coming right at me. Next, I looked over at the other EMT working on someone on the stretcher.  I was thinking, 'Did I hurt someone? We are in the back of the ambulance?' I then realized that person on the stretcher was me. 

At this point, I somehow instantly and fully comprehended this as an out of body experience. While sitting there and feeling an overwhelming silence, I felt absolutely no pain. I started to lift of the bench from next to the EMT and floated above everything while looking down. I thought for a very brief moment that I physically started to turn away when I saw they were trying to revive me. Just as I felt myself turn and float through the roof of the ambulance, an extremely loud and physical WOOOOSH threw me right back into my body!

The instant I came back in my body, every sound was unbelievably loud and painful.  I hear from one of the EMTs, 'We got him!' I became fully conscious and coherent.  I told the EMTs what happened, the extent my injuries, and asked them to take me to a specific trauma center hospital.  Then I asked if it was ok to pass out.

I didn't wake up for two days after several complicated back and leg surgeries.  But I remember having some of the most intense dreams, both good and bad that I've ever had from those days and months to follow. 

While this experience was primarily positive, it would still be nice to understand certain fundamentals of a near death experience a little better to provide some closure.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/8/2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.       Horrific motorcycle crash.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was exactly like me except I was wearing a motorcycle jacket that I did not have on that day

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully except for hearing.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything seemed to move slower than I would have expected reality to be.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Total silence except when re-entering my body when there was a loud windy 'WHOOOOSH'

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Everything worked except for hearing

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I was surprised and very briefly scared but then totally at peace with the situation.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     That these EMTs were trying to save me and that I had to try to help.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   As I tried to leave the ambulance, some force made me understand that I couldn't leave and the force physically threw me back into my body  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best parts was realizing it was happening and the worst part was when it ended and the pain was instantly there

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told some friends and family.   They were supportive of the possibility.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christian_y_nde.html