{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christian_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Christian D NDE 4662","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christian D NDE 4662  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christian D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2361 Christian D NDE 4662  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I woke up in some scrub hearing friends' voices looking for me. I called to them and told them I was bleeding to death and because of the distance from a hospital told them to ring the rescue helicopter, which they did. An ambulance arrived and I was loaded into it so they could take me to where the chopper could land. At this point, I felt it was time to slip into a state of meditation and self-check what other damage my body may have. I add here that I have sustained many serious accidents and have been thought to have been dead by rescuers before so am quite calm at such times.

As I drifted off I could hear a friend who was in the ambulance with me start panicking to the ambulance driver that he better get in here as I was dying and unresponsive. My friend's partner had to drive the ambulance to the chopper landing area while the medics attended to me. I only remember hearing my friend and the medic's voices briefly.

Then, I will try to explain as best I can, I was surrounded by love, warmth, light and felt happier than I ever have before or since. Everything and all that is good was in this light. In the light was a seemingly uncountable crowd of people who are my ancestors and relatives that have left here over the ages and are now there. I recognized the ones who have been here in my time here and at the front were also my dogs from throughout my time here. I felt absolutely that they were family that I had known forever and were there to bring me home.

I don't remember speaking but instead all questions were answered before they were asked. There was discussion by some that it wasn't time yet as there was still something I had to come back here for and then I can come home. Wish I knew what it is because now I feel lost and don't want to be here. What is called 'life' here is nothing but pain sadness and emptiness for me yet I know I have to wait to go and must not end this existence at my own hand (bummer). 

There are other things that were told to me that I will never tell so the next thing I knew I was in the rescue chopper heading to hospital. On arrival, the trauma team asked to take photos for teaching, as it was the best facial lacerations on a living person they had seen. My skull was visible where my nose and face had been and they said I had to come to grips with the loss of vision in my left eye. I have restored that eyes vision to better than 20/20 now but am still trying to heal my hips and back that I smashed and which ache terribly twenty-four hours a day seven days a week. In previous accidents I have been told I would lose my legs but have healed them also to nearly a hundred percent so maybe I am here to learn about how painful this place is and how much it takes before you just give up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2004?

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Had cut my face off on a deer fence and was bleeding to death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole time I think.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time I think.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt my time away from this place was far greater than it possibly could have been.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There I felt positively right with what I saw whereas here I question what I see. Here I look into souls and see good or evil in man or beast but not sure if I'm right or just had too many head injuries.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sounds seemed to be in my head but not really heard through my ears.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was only light with no edges or definable solids until I met everyone.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     After a period of light I was met by human formed shapes who I took to be ancestors and long lost dogs I have loved and thought of as my best friends. I could understand both dog and people and was told some things and that I had to return back to this place till a later time.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An intense warm light of white, yellowish gold was everything.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     it may have just been light but it seemed the most beautiful place ever to me

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Words cannot express the happiness, love and belonging I felt.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Once again I am sorry but I must not speak on this subject.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I only went as far as the group who met me but they came from further away and will take me there when it's time. Then I feel I will be where I should be.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   own spiritual beliefs developed through life

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   same spiritual beliefs

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am very sorry but I must not share this.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I trust instincts I have when I look into people's souls now one hundred percent and have so far made all correct choices in who I continue to associate with and who I have ended relationships with. The down side is telling people the truth I see and that there are fewer good people here and that I hold most of mankind in contempt and think the world needs cleansing of most humans.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have never felt so loved happy and welcome like I finally was home. Everything about it was right and made perfect sense to me while I was there.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Empathy and what everything feels which is very, very hard to take.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I welcome what is called death in this place now and can't wait to go.  No matter how painful it is here I know I will go home and it will be okay from then on.  My best friends and my dad and mum are waiting there for me.  So are many, many others.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Had heard of near death experiences but never looked into it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After waking from surgery I felt angry at having to come back and could not see why I had to be here.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It puzzles me daily why I don't know why I am still here and I still have no doubt at all that the experience was premeditated and for a reason.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The knowledge gained that one day I will leave this place and go home is the only comfort I have here.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christian_d_nde.html