{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1christal_nde.html","mytitle":"Christal NDE 5322","mylang":"de"}
          	        Christal NDE 5322  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Christal NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2796 Christal NDE 5322  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was very sick. I had a kidney infection that had gotten so bad that all I could do was lie in bed, under 10 blankets, shaking badly. My husband was at work, not far away, and my daughter (age 13) was home. 

My daughter was in my room for some reason. I saw her, closed my eyes and then drifted out of consciousness. Everything was gray; foggy but it wasn't really 'fog.' Then, I found myself standing in a vertical tunnel.  I say 'tunnel' for lack of a better word. It seemed more like a well and I was standing at the bottom of it.  The top was about three feet above my head.  It was dark in the 'well,' but there was a light (this sounds so lame!) at the top of it. As the light grew brighter, I could make out some people, sort of leaning over, peering in. I saw three of my grandparents. There were two other people who don't seem familiar to me now, but I remember knowing who they were at the time. I felt happy and very glad to see them. They spoke to me, but not with their mouths. I can't remember what they said. I reached my hand up as if to let them pull me out, but my grandmother scolded me, 'Not yet!' she said.   I then started hearing a lot of voices, their voices and other voices. I remember gasping for air, and as I did, it sucked me back into the bed. I opened my eyes to my husband shaking me and my daughter sobbing, 'you weren't breathing!' She had freaked out and called my husband and he had rushed home. Then, they took me to the doctor. 

I didn't tell them what had happened, but I told my mom later and she was glad to hear about her parents. Ever since this happened, I feel a sort of sadness, and I really want to go back there.  I know I will, someday, and it gives me great peace to know (because now I really do know) that I will see my loved ones again, and that there is life after death.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' I had a horrible kidney infection that went untreated to the point I was spiking a super high fever and stopped breathing.  I was very sick and had stopped breathing

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was at my highest level of alertness, once the light came into focus and I could see the people.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at my highest level of alertness, once the light came into focus and I could see the people.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light was bright (but it didn't bother me to look at it) and once I could make out the faces, they were very clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I felt as if it were dark, and as the darkness faded, I felt as if I were in a well or something like a well.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My three grandparents and some other people I can't remember.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was beautiful where they were. Not so much, in the "well"

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First, I felt confusion and then an incredible feeling of joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I for sure believe in the afterlife.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I for sure believe in the afterlife.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know there is an afterlife. And it's going to be great.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My grandmother saying, 'not yet' and getting the feeling I have more work to do on this earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mom, about a year later. We were on the subject.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Of course. I had experienced something else, completely different, though.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I think it was real. It could have been some freaky dream but I don't think it was.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     It's still pretty vivid.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing.  It's great.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1christal_nde.html