{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chris_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Chris W Probable NDE 3944","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chris W Probable NDE 3944  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chris W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1878 Chris W Probable NDE 3944  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on my way to work at 3:30 am on October 16, 2006. I fell asleep on Highway 59. I remember my car was the only car on the road. I do remember thinking about an experience I had around a month before that night when I was driving - I dosed off for a moment and when I opened my eyes, I saw a dark black puff of smoke hit my windshield and then vanish. After thinking of that, I was almost halfway to work. Then the next thing I remember was that I was moving in slow motion across an open field of green grass. It was a sunny day - a bright and sunny day. (Remember I was on my way to work at 3:30 am in the morning. It was pitch dark and no grass.) As I was driving through the field, all of a tree was right in front of me. I swerved to miss it. Then I was just there watching myself, bent over holding my stomach, asking for help softly. Then from there I was in a man's house, blood all over me, sitting on his chair, saying only, 'Help, I hurt.' Then from there, all I remember was being in the hospital. I was told after finally waking up after two days that no one knows how I was still alive. That I rolled my vehicle seven times going sixty mph, the car was totaled. Then they told me that I walked a quarter of a mile up the highway to a man's house to get help. But no one knows how since I fractured my spine, broke three ribs, busted open my head and punctured my right lung. Everyone said there was no way I could have walked that far in my condition or even survived the whole accident.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10-16-2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I bad car accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       There wasn't a time. I really only had some consciousness when I got to the hospital.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Well from my wreck all the way to me being in the hospital was in a small period of time. My wreck was at least twenty miles from the hospital. I left to work at 3:30 am. It was probably around 4:00 am when I was in my wreck. Everything supposedly happened within an hour. Which there would have been no way and me meaning everything is my being in the wreck all the way up to me being in the hospital.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed to be brighter.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    People's voices seemed further away.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Well I don't know if you would consider it a light. I was in a bright open field. Very sunny out.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a open field with one tree in the middle of it. Bright sunny day with beautiful green grass.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Strength, sadness, loneliness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I believe in God and After life.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Before I did believe in God but not the way I do now. Like everything I do, I think of what God would like me to do. What would make him happy?

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Same as above

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before I did believe in God but not the way I do now. Like everything I do, I think of what God would like me to do. What would make him happy?

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel open now. Before, I was a person that stayed to myself. Now I can't seem to stay away from people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am not afraid of places that I would have considered scary anymore, like graveyards at night and so on. Now I can go by myself without worry. Also feel like I speak to God all the time. When something happens, I hear a voice in my head that is supposed to be God. I also get very emotional to anything that I see that consists of pain. Usually when I see something on TV of somebody getting hurt I start to tear up.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I seem to remember two parts of the wreck. I think about these all the time no matter what. I remember the open field and me being bent over holding my stomach asking for help.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed it as an eye opener. Something telling me that I have a reason to live. That I was put on this earth for a reason.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chris_w_probable_nde.html