{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chris_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Chris R NDE 736","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chris R NDE 736  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chris R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						263  Chris R NDE  736  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I passed out in car, awoke in an ambulance long enough to give name and address. I went out again.  I felt that I was floating on an inner tube on a sun lit lake, completely surrounded by the sparkling reflections - diamond-like. I had a true feeling of peace, contentment, happiness. Then I faintly heard my name being called and a slight sensation of pressure on my chest. Reluctantly I responded and awoke in a hospital emergency room and immediately went out again.


This time I found myself in the apartment I was living in at the time, which was at least sixty miles from the hospital. I was observing my roommates in the living room from my vantage point on the end of the couch, laughing to myself, knowing I could see them but they couldn't see me. Again I heard my name and pressure on my chest, and again reluctantly returned to my body.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    fall 1972

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident  carbon monoxide leak in car  Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Ghost-like form of myself on edge of couch.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      In and out of different realities.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Completely surrounded by light.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My room-mates, but they couldn't see me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was sparkling like the sun on water, but completely surrounding me.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Sun-lit lake.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Felt I had to respond to my name, even though I didn't want to.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   raised catholic

What is your religion now?      Liberal   belief in god, not organized religion

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Now have no fear of death.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   True feeling of happiness.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Have had subsequent experiences with others near death.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best was experiencing it; worst was having to come back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most like the story.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chris_r_nde.html