{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chris_p_fde.html","mytitle":"Chris P FDE 7623","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chris P FDE 7623  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chris P FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			3906 Chris P FDE 7623  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I used to be a medium-level rock climber with two years of experience. I was at the climbing gym and preparing to go for my first warming-up route; an easy route. Due to this, I didn't check the top-rope I was using.  It wasn't clipped to the safety anchor, so when I reached the top at 9 meters high (approximately 30 feet), I pushed the wall to start descending. Instead, I had a free fall to the wooden floor without a mattress. The fall lasted less than 2 seconds, however it felt like it was much longer. I had the time to feel.  I panicked when I heard the rope slipping and then me falling.  I realized what had happened and then I accepted it.  

I remember telling myself, ’This is it!' Instantly, I felt very comfortable with this. I totally relaxed my body while I was watching the wall.  There were colorful footholds, as in a rainbow.  It was like the same picture you have when you are travelling in a fast train, only in vertical form. Then, there was the impact! It ruined the peaceful feeling I had.  

I landed on my hip and it seemed like I felt my brain hitting my scalp.  For a split of a second, everything went black. I didn't feel any pain.  When I came back to consciousness, I checked that I could move my feet and then I tried to get up; this was the point that I felt enormous pain because I broke a vertebra in my back. Luckily, there was a doctor at the gym and he forced me to stay down while waiting for the ambulance to come. Even though I was in pain, I was smiling and making jokes. A few minutes before, I was certain that I would be dead and had come to peace with this option.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 9th 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Rock climbing fall from 9 meters high (approximately 30 feet).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   For everything that I do in my normal everyday consciousness, I have doubts. This time I felt totally certain about something and even though it's about death, I compromised with that option.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I panicked and when I realized what happened. Everything was crystal-clear and somehow I was feeling like: Enjoy the fall; this is your last ride on earth.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Everything seemed to go slower. I am not quite sure, if my thinking was going faster than the events.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No comparison. It was totally unique.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The only thing I heard was the rope slipping, during the fall I was hearing nothing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I am not sure, if the ‘train-image’ while I was falling is something.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       1. Panic 2. Realization 3. Acceptance 4. Peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Not quite understood everything, but since then I have started reading about the universe.  (This was something I wasn't interested before the event.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I don't know if I understand the question, but I have never felt my body so relaxed as that moment: and I was trained in hundreds of falls before this incident.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I highly appreciate everything more than before, every aspect of life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     The vertical "train-image" I had gave me the perception of a rainbow and this is when I came in totally peace with my shelf. I felt that the rainbow is the beauty of life and I wanted to enjoy it as much as possible.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am giving now everything I have, without any agenda. As a Greek saying says: God sees you planning and he laughs.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Since I am on my feet, I have nothing to fear.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few days later, when I was hospitalized. I think, as almost all people do, they were influenced for some time and then they came back to their ordinary life and fears.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so crystal clear.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chris_p_fde.html