{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chris_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Chris O NDE 5184","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chris O NDE 5184  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chris O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2706 Chris O NDE 5184  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					There were about six, maybe seven, of us kids, the oldest maybe thirteen. It was a cool autumn day and after wandering about our little town, we found ourselves at a bridge with a small, shallow creek running underneath. Well, we decided to pass some time target practicing. Target practicing consisted of dropping small pieces of trash off one side of the bridge, waiting for it to appear on the other, and then commencing to throw rocks at it to try to hit the target. The bridge hadn't but a one-foot rail to keep things from falling off, so that made this activity somewhat risky. Now my memory begins to blur. I remember where the sun was in the sky right then, but I do not remember falling. The next thing I do remember is the light, not collapsing, but rather fading much like it does at the end of a 'Looney Tunes' cartoon. All right. It's dark, but before I have a chance to absorb any info, I see myself standing over there in the darkness. I was asking both of my-selves simultaneously, 'What are you doing there? You don't belong there.' It lasted, to me, about two to three seconds. In the next memory, some of the bigger boys are dragging me. As I start to get my feet back underneath me, I have an indescribable sense of elation or maybe it was euphoria? Having regained consciousness, I tell my friends that 'I feel like I just came from home!' Just as quick, I hear someone quip 'That's because the garbage-dump is your home.' (The local community dump was betwixt said bridge and our local community.) And that's it. I've told several people as I grew up. Not sure if they believed me. It matters not. I know what I know and what I don't know.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'august 8 , 1976 ?'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      kids out having fun  Otherwise I was healthy

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I do not understand the text-content of the word 'consciousness'. I will, however take a stab in the dark, ha-ha, get it? And answer, 'The second the lights went out.'

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Altered time, no. Unless you are referring to the fact that, to me, this happened within a few seconds, when it really must have been longer.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As stated, much like when a 'Looney Tunes' cartoon ends, that circle that telescopes down: sort of like a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Myself.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I sincerely felt I was in a quandary.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I've had, and have, my share of dreams, with a sense of foreboding. Don't you?

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Significant, of course!! I saw myself asking myself a question! That had never happened to me before or since. Meaningful? Yes, I experienced something of a strange or questionable nature. But ultimately it was a peaceful experience that felt good.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    For the last ten years? More than likely I have, and it's usually met with utter disbelief.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The constant presence of friends before and after my experience is proof, to me, that something happened because to this day, they, too, remember me falling off that bridge.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I see the event as one that befell one clumsy boy (me) that had gotten a bit too excited in trying to prove himself to those that were older: I fell off the bridge. Does time alter that fact? No. Does time obscure exact efficient recall? I'm sure it must, and yet I really do remember.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I do not wish it upon anyone else.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chris_o_nde.html