{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chris_mother_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Chris Mother Probable NDE 6647","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chris Mother Probable NDE 6647  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chris Mother Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand Probable NDE  			3299 Chris Mother Probable NDE 6647  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This is a recount of what my mother told me of her near death experience that occurred over 20 years ago.  I do not know the details surrounding her situation.  I do not know all of the details of her NDE.  From what she told me, she experienced the bright light and beauty and happiness like never before.  She was taken on travels to other planets and other places.  She explained the feeling of wanting to stay there.  She had an escort, but did not think it was someone she knew in her earthly life.  She was told that she would have to come back to her life on earth as she still had things to do.  This made her sad because she so wanted to stay where she was.

She kept this all hidden for many years but did tell me this much of what she experienced.

My mother passed on just six months ago and my only comfort is that she was reunited with the place she didn't want to leave.

Since her death, my sister was visited in a dream by a white cat (my mother loved cats) and the cat told my sister that dying was not painful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Unknown

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.    Unknown

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I do not know.  She did not mention hearing things from earth or missing them.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   From what I was told, it was hard to put into words what she was experiencing and feeling.  It was great love and wonder.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unknown.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     She felt that she had been on her journey for a long time - however it was not long enough.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     She indicated that there was so much to see and how wondrous it was.  There were galaxies and planets filled with people and events and beauty everywhere.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Unknown.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     None were described to me, but I don't know if she encountered any or not.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I believe she said it was a very bright light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Other planets that were inhabited.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       From what I was told, it was a feeling of love and complete happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I think she also understood why she had to come back.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It may have been a barrier, but I was told that her guides explained that it was not her time and she had to return as there were people who needed her and things left for her to do.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       No comment

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   She saw many unearthly beings, but I do not know if they were in human form or not.  She had a guide or perhaps guides that escorted her on the journey.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   This was not mentioned

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     There was no mention of God or a religious experience

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   My mother was unable to explain most of what she experienced.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   She remembered it until her time of death.  About a month prior to her dying she was fearful of what death would bring and she was afraid of leaving her family.  She asked us what we thought happened and I told her I thought it was going to be like her experience and that she would not want to come back here.  She was very reflective on this and chose to share her story with a pastor at the hospital.  Though the pastor was very intrigued and said he would return to speak with her again, he never came back.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was quite a few years before she shared the experience.  She said she was not sure how others would react, and I think she was also very private with such a personal event.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When she shared her story, there was no doubt that she had experienced it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Her views did not change.  There was ever a question as to the validity of the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chris_mother_probable_nde.html