{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chris_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Chris M NDE 5096","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chris M NDE 5096  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chris M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2642 Chris M NDE 5096  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I do not remember anything about this day, other than my afterlife experience. My son and I were digging a ditch. He said that I had trouble breathing and I sat down a lot. About 5:15 or so, I went into the house to get a drink of water. My wife was a nurse until illness struck her about ten years ago. She said I didn't look well and I was having massive pain in my chest. I lay down on the den floor and told her I loved her and my face turned black and my heart stopped along with my breathing. She started CPR and called 911. Fifteen minutes later the ambulance showed up. My other son was the paramedic on the scene. He hit me three times with the paddles and could not get me going. They worked on me for forty-five more minutes before they got my heart going. They put me in the ambulance and away we went. I died again in the ambulance and they called my son in the other ambulance and told him I was gone. He told them to keep on me until we got to the hospital. When we got there, my Mom and Dad were standing at the door of the emergency room. My Mom had a heart attack. Later, without knowing, I asked how my Mom was. Anyway, they put two stents in and four days later, I woke up in a regular room.

While I was dead, I appeared in a huge lit up expanse. I saw both of my grandmothers. They both hugged me and my Dad's Mom took my hand and said to come on she had someone she wanted me to meet. We walked on this long golden road. It was one sheet of gold so wide you could fit a thousand people across it. I saw a man with long white hair and robe with gold trim playing with children. He arose, marshaled the kids away, and walked towards us. When He reached us, my Grandma said, 'Honey, this is your Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.' He touched my forehead with two fingers of His left hand and said, 'It's not your time. You cannot stay, you things to do for Me.' I said that I was home and didn't want to leave. He said, 'You have to go. When it is your time I will call for you so, be ready.' Then it ended. I woke up four days later as they were taking me to my room from the intensive care unit. Here's the problem. Nobody asked me how I felt about it. I loved it, of course, but I have so many questions. I cry at the drop of a hat. Everyone said that it was a wonderful experience and yes, it was, but it screwed me up in a way. I've kept my feelings about the whole ordeal bottled up for three years. I tell everyone about the experience. Joyously. I love my Jesus, but dang, what a ride. I feel and see things I can't explain. Sometimes I feel I'm going nuts.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 26 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In Heaven.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In Heaven.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was totally obvious I was not on earth. Heaven is real.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     After I came back, my eye sight was worse. I wear contacts. I also lost my sense of smell, and a lot of memory which is still coming back to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmothers and my dad's brother and his son.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I just appeared in a huge lit up expanse. It felt like I was at the top of a staircase. The light I saw illuminated from the person I saw - Jesus Christ. As He got closer to me the light got brighter.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     i walked along a golden road. isaw,on a hill, a lit up city or huge palace.all i could make out was the shape of it.the light was too bright to tell.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   southern Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   southern baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Meeting Jesus and Him touching my forehead. Wow!!!!!!!!!!! He is my Savior. The Son of the one and only true God. He is real!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Five days.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew what it was.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I realize that I actually felt the hugs from my grandmothers and the touch of Jesus on my head. The way He talked to me was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as before. Has never changed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Can't think of any.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chris_m_nde.html