{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chris_h_nde_8041.html","mytitle":"Chris H NDE 8041","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chris H NDE 8041  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chris H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4179 Chris H NDE 8041  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I knew I was dying and there was nothing to stop it.  My lungs were filling with blood and I knew I was drowning. I began reciting Psalms, with no clue how I knew the verses I was reciting.  Then I said the Lord's Prayer and asked forgiveness.  I asked my dad to help me because more than anything I just wanted to see my dad. 
 
 The next thing I knew he was there holding me and telling me everything was all right. I was amazed that he looked about 25 years old. Then I realized I could breathe and wasn't in the parking lot anymore. There were other people around and they, like my father, were all young. I knew these were all people who knew and loved me in life but had moved on. Then my dad said he wanted me to meet someone.  He introduced a man named David to me. I don't know how I knew, but he was King David from the Bible. David asked if I would pray with him and we recited the Lord's Prayer together. After that, we all talked for a while.  I noticed a man standing nearby and he was watching me the whole time. I asked if that was Jesus and my dad said, 'Yes it is.' I asked why Jesus wasn't talking to me.  My dad said he was making a decision whether to take me then or send me back. I asked my dad what he thought and he said he didn't know. 
 
 After that, many people came and spoke with me.  Both, dad and David stayed with me the whole time. It seemed like I was there for days and spoke with a hundred or more people. Some of these people I had only seen as a baby.  I didn't recognize them but somehow knew whom they were when they spoke to me. 
 
 Some, I knew the second I saw them. After a time my dad said, 'You have to go back now,' I knew better than to protest even though with all my heart I wanted to stay. 
 
 I never knew how loved I had been, and still am, until this happened. I woke up in the ambulance briefly and died two more times on the operating table.  I only left my body once. I will have to describe that as a separate experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/24/2016

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack.       Other: I died once at the scene and twice on the operating table  A young woman asked me for a ride to Apple Valley. I was heading that way so I said, 'Hop in.' Then she asked if I could take her by another place that was out of my way.  I pulled into a nearby parking lot and told her if she wanted to go there, she would need to find another ride.  I told her that I would still take her to Apple Valley. She looked at me and said that I didn't have any eyes. She then stabbed me in the middle of my chest.  The blade slid across my sternum and went through my right lung. I died once at the scene and twice on the operating table.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I just seemed to know certain things.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It felt normal.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time doesn't work the same there. The best description I can give in brief is that time is now.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see without glasses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My dad and others.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I knew I wasn't on earth anymore, but I was never uncomfortable.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete peace and of being loved

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     What different people talked about.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I just felt fine with where I was. If it was a border of some kind, I wasn't aware of it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was on a falling out with God and my family

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I have always been convinced that god,jesus and the holy spirit are very real.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I thought if something like this occurred, Jesus would talk to me. The thing is that he really didn't need to.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A need to be a better person, to let people know that we don't die and to read the Bible.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   King David and Jesus

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The way I knew who people were.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Jesus was there. I believe the decision to send me back had already been made; he was there so I could see my dad.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   We don't really die.  We just move on.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     It's all worth it. The hardships, the pain, the heartbreak, it just makes the reward so much better.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     That was my dad and he was alive and kicking.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     David said 'fight.'

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I never knew how loved we all are.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I know three things to be a fact God exists, there is a heaven and there is a hell.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I get along with people better. For example, I pray for bad drivers instead of cussing them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The first time I died no, the second or third time yes.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events.  I don't know how long I was there I talked at length with many people.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my dad

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     All five senses were working. I've never had that in a dream before.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I had two separate experiences. Neither was the same but both were related, at the same time both can't be described in this one questionnaire.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chris_h_nde_8041.html