{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chris_b_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Chris B Possible NDE 6978","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chris B Possible NDE 6978  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chris B Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3511 Chris B Possible NDE 6978  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I talk a lot and this one's a doozy. Luckily, my memory of 'my potential death' is not too long or detailed. I was driving on an icy winter road. The truck left the road and hit a road signpost.  My memory picks up in hospital during the earlier stages of recovery when I was able to keep some short-term memories. I had to be told quite often, 'Chris you were in an accident.' The following summer, I was released from hospital. I was told that I would never walk, talk, or function properly. I surprised everyone. As soon as I was able, my wife and I took a trip to my home province in Newfoundland.  That June, I had seen my family members who couldn't make it to Calgary. It was on this trip while lying in bed that I had the first 'flash' of my after death experience. 

I remembered my '15 white seconds'. Everything went completely white. It was not a flashlight, tunnel, or glowing light. It was more like a white snowstorm, I guess, but with that particular white. I knew I was at a table area talking to someone, I don't know who it was. 

I remember being told, 'Chris, it's time to head back.' It really seems it was at the tail end of a longer talk. I am not able to recall the first part. I keep Trying all time. Before it ended, to my left were my grandparents from mom's side. Sitting on a bench, Nan was closer to my view, Pop, to the left of her, sort of behind her.  Nan looked at me: nodded her head, as if an approval. No words from her. She was across from me: 'Chris, time to head back'.  That's it. I cannot get more than that. 

I just feel I know things now. It's weird what I saw, what I know. More like a feeling, I guess. I could never get technical. 'The world is in trouble' or 'Jesus was there' or 'this is what we must do now': nothing absolute like those kinds of things. I do feel awesome now in regards to: 'the God - No God' thing. I moved on to more: enjoy the ride while you are here type of thing. More will come later (my part in it).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 19 2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury. Other: 'wanted to check both of first choices because honestly, to be completely accurate. Im not sure. I have ambulance reports and insurance reports stating 'Patient Deceased' but not sure if hospital really went over that with me or family?'  I had a truck accident and suffered a brain injury.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   No memory of it until weeks afterwards. I was in a coma.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Sorry again, I had an almost complete memory block for about 6-8 weeks afterwards. I can't remember the accident, either. Just 5 minutes before, I grabbed a tea, and got back on the highway. Then, hospital recovery time: about 6-8 weeks after the accident that I started to remember.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Uncertain.  See above explanation

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       If I had to say: tons of curiosity, more questions yet, but confident.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Not everything maybe, just enough to feel more comfortable with everything.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   I was looking for the 'right' answer. God - No god? Matter - no Matter?

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I stopped looking for the right religion, and maybe the right answers. I don't worry about the details, as such, so I don't need a 'one' religion to help in that way.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Not sure if any of those apply? Now how do I short version?   I believe or KNOW there is more. what in pertacular that is I'm still not sure, but best of all. I really think, it does not matter really. Probably because maybe now I'm 'in the know'   maybe just knowing there is more and its not 'rule based' i'm able to enjoy till the heart stops full time.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Pretty vague, but maybe changes in my beliefs. They're probably stronger, with more knowing as opposed to wondering.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   yep, again tough one. I have TBI now. tough to remember where my keys are now. lol. actually the further back memories are easier. so who knows. maybe i'll have to get BACK TO you. :)

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Still can't seem to make the Toronto Maple Leafs lose more!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with many. They all seem to be very interested. It could be the fact I survived, too, I guess.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   It was always a curiosity. Funny, I found out that, a month or so before my accident, I was You Tubing people's NDEs. I was trying to find one common theme: not a Hollywood theme or a religious inspired theme.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I was in recovery at the time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I can't remember it that way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I truly feel there are more memories up there in this broken brain of mine. Now it's how to retrieve or do I need to?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chris_b_possible_nde.html