{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chris_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Chris B NDE 4940","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chris B NDE 4940  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chris B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2537 Chris B NDE 4940  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went in (full 911 ambulance and the whole deal) with bradycardia (slow pulse) at 25 BPM. This eventually got slower until it stopped altogether at 17 BPM. I never lost consciousness. I was watching the heart monitor and in a flash, I was out of body and 'standing' in the hallway outside of the room looking in from behind the medical team.

I felt warm and cozy all over like the most comfortable I've ever been. I was aware of a large male figure standing next to me but I couldn't make out his face and he didn't say anything but I could tell he was not with the medical staff. I believe he was wearing jeans and a flannel shirt that was brown in color. He was unshaven with darkish brown hair. Was it an angel or Jesus? I don't know. He never spoke - just stood about a foot away and radiated warmth like a heater. The hall lighting was definitely the fluorescent lights in the hospital still.

I could watch and hear the doctor yelling on the phone for someone to bring up a fluoroscope and he was arguing loudly with someone on the phone as to whose patient was more important. He told the person on the phone 'You better get that God damn machine up here right now I have a guy in full heart block.'

Then my attention was turned to down the hall. The hall appeared to be a hundred feet long and was dimly lit with a pair of doors at the end. I have no Idea if this was the real hospital or a 'spiritual hallway'.

I continued to stand there being fully aware that I could not see my feet (that area was dark and shadowy but the floor was white tiles) and with the full sensation of floating about six to ten inches off the floor. I could also tell that I wasn't breathing and I was checking for my pulse but found none. This however did not worry me because I had the sensation that all was as it was supposed to be. I definitely had figured out that I was dead and I was totally fine with it. I just kept feeling better and better, with almost an orgasmic quality all over.

Having the Christian upbringing, I found myself praying as I my heart came to a stop but as soon as I was out of body and standing there, I stopped and was almost surprised that the whole thing was so simple and there was nothing to fear.

No one spoke to me and I watched as the doctor put this wire right into my heart through my chest but I could not sense any of this. Next, the nurse put on these large sticky shocker pads and turned on the defibrillator. I was instantly 'slammed' back into my body and I went in right through the midpoint of my stomach right above the belly button area. I felt this extremely hot circle about ten inches in diameter right on my stomach. This was a completely separate sensation from the huge body contorting shock that I was receiving every second to restart and pace my heart. I became fully aware that this circle was where you enter and leave your physical body.

After a few seconds the heat started to dissipate, I was now just concentrating on the pacing shock, and thinking at the same time what an awesome feeling, I had just had as the warm circle area dissipated over the next ten minutes or so. I thought it was so cool that I now knew how the soul went in and out of the body! I was now not regretting being put back but eager to replay and dwell on that superb feeling of warmth and wellbeing. Kind of like lying there right after the best sex you've ever had and just enjoying the 'afterglow'. I was still a hundred percent conscious and there has been no break as far as I am aware. After I was fully restarted the doctor knocked me out with a drug and I awoke in the intensive care unit a few hours later.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10-22-08

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart stopped from electrical problems--Heartblock  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My heart had stopped and I was in full cardiac systole (arrest) for approximately three minutes while an external defy/pacer (shocker) was being connected with a flat line on the screen.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was standing in the hallway watching.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was standing in the hallway watching.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The conversation of the medical staff became muffled and I recall trying to pay attention but couldn't make out what they were saying even though I was standing about a foot behind their backs.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A large male to my right dressed in jeans or dark pants and a brownish flannel shirt unbuttoned and untucked. He was unshaven and had brownish kind of messed up hair. I didn't make out his face at all. He was silent but radiated an incredible warmth like standing by a heater. He was NOT part of the medical team! He also seemed to be floating.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I specifically took a mental note of looking up at the ceiling and seeing the regular fluorescent lights.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt calmness, peace, wellbeing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Non denominational christian not sold 100%

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am now aware that we don't go straight to 'heaven' when we die. We have a few choices. Therefore I struggle to accept many teachings of the 'Church' Because I KNOW DIFFERENT!!! It is akin to losing your virginity!

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual Seeker No religious affiliation

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am now aware that we don't go straight to 'heaven' when we die. We have a few choices. Therefore I struggle to accept many teachings of the 'Church' Because I KNOW DIFFERENT!!! It is akin to losing your virginity!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only where the soul enters and exits the physical body. A circular area in the middle of your abdomen.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The sensations felt and seen.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was as real as I am sitting here typing this.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above. Now I have done some OBE research and further validated my experience. So, it is more real than ever. I think about it every day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Was this your first or only NDE? If not then...  Does your NDE remain a daily integral part of your life now?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chris_b_nde.html