{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cheryl_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Cheryl R NDE 9512","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cheryl R NDE 9512  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cheryl R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5121 Cheryl R NDE 9512  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    The CAT Scan dye was injected and I said aloud that I felt funny. 

  The nurses heard me and jumped, but I was immediately in a dark void. It was not scary but very comforting. I was comfortable and knew I was dead.  It was fine because all my worries were completely gone. I felt like I was reclining in the most comfortable place. There were two feminine beings behind me. I did not turn to look at them but they were loving and concerned. They seemed a bit confused as to why I was there. I looked around a little and saw small starlike lights moving by me and I knew they were others who had died but they were moving on. 

  I then remembered that I had just had a baby and wondered to myself if she would be okay without me. The beings seemed relieved to have something to do. They assured me that my little daughter, Wendy, would be fine, and I was instantly seeing her at the babysitters. There were three ladies together looking at her and caring for her. I was satisfied. 

  Then I was back in my body. I shouted out, 'I’m back!' The nurse standing by me said something snarky so I stayed quiet, and they proceeded with the scan. No one ever mentioned that I lost consciousness or that anything had happened.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 1976  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic Reaction       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was having a CT scan with contrast. As soon as the dye was injected, I felt funny then immediately I was in a black void  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I went to the babysitter’s house and saw everything from the corner of the ceiling looking down  I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was totally at ease and in wonderment  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the void  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I’m nearsighted and have been all my life, but I was not nearsighted there  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was nothing said out loud, but communication was instantaneous  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was in a dark void with lights moving past me that were other souls, I seemed to know instinctively what they were and that to others I looked the same, but I wasn’t moving as fast as others.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt that the two Female beings were related to me  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The other souls were small lights. I didn’t see any other lights  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was a dark void, clearly not of earth  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, comfort, absence of any worry  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I don’t attend church but I have strong belief in God  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I never thought of an in between place before  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   As I said before, there were two Female beings who seemed familiar to me, but they were always behind me and out of my sight. They seemed relieved that they could show me my baby and made sure I knew that she would be fine  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was still me and I knew I was dead  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     It took several years to put the experience in words  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just that amazing feeling  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several years  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The sights and feelings were very vivid and unlike any other  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I lived it. Also now, I’ve heard many others tell their experiences, so I feel validated  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cheryl_r_nde.html