{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cheryl_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Cheryl O NDE 22372","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cheryl O NDE 22372  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cheryl O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2480 Cheryl O NDE 22372  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I had my first experience I was with a close friend of mine and her boyfriend. We had been hanging out for several hours and I was getting ready to leave to meet my mother at her work for a ride home. I was standing on her back porch waiting for them to walk with me while she was in the bathroom. Her boyfriend was upstairs telling his mom we were leaving. I remember all of a sudden everything went white and I started to feel like I was spinning. I fell but didn't feel it, everything was numb. When I hit I could hear my friend's boyfriend screaming for help and the next thing I saw was the back of his head leaning over me trying to get me to wake up. My friend ran out of the bathroom still yanking her pants up to make sure everything was okay. I woke up after two or three minutes and my friend brought me inside where I passed out four or five more times (without an experience).

  					The second time I did was at another girlfriend's house. It was me and two of my friends, Anna and Danielle. We were at the home where Anna would babysit with her employer. We were all upstairs of the house talking and hanging out. When we started to walk down the stairs, I began to feel strange. I didn't know where or who I was. I laid down on the floor and told the girls to go on without me because I needed a nap. They thought I was joking and started laughing and telling me to get up. My two friends pulled me up and realized it was serious when they opened the door to walk outside. When I felt the air hit me I dropped. I was told my skin turned gray, my lips purple, and my eyes looked black. I could see my friend's employer giving me CPR and praying over me. Anna was pacing in the living room and Danielle was on her knees upstairs rocking back and forth and praying. They did not believe my experience until I told them what I saw. I could move room to room during an experience around that first and only time. The ambulance was called as well as the local police but I refused to go to the hospital because I was afraid to get into trouble.
  					
I have had several other experiences but not as powerful as the first two.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summer of 2001-Winter of 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Usually when I'm hanging out with friends but sometimes when I'm alone.   I was and am in perfect health. Something happens to me, I can usually feel it coming on, where I become confused, pass out, and sometimes I have an out of body experience. My doctors have not been able to find a cause.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could never see my face but I could see my body and those around me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything seemed slower. Almost like slow motion.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Right before the experience everything was just one big white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Concern for those who were there with me seeing what was happening.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I never believed that things like this happened to people. I am definitely more open-minded.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Uncertain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The only people who believe me are those who were there and can confirm what I saw.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cheryl_o_nde.html