{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cheryl_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Cheryl B NDE 4839","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cheryl B NDE 4839  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cheryl B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2454 Cheryl B NDE 4839  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On May 25, 2010, I was experiencing a typical day. After work, I decided to go to my favorite casino to play Bingo at 7:00 pm - that decision was fortunate because if I had stayed at home by myself I would not have survived. I entered the Bingo hall, purchased my cards, and found a favorite seat at the rear of the room. They started the first game - and I woke up in the hospital eight days later. According to the Bingo staff and manager, I made a small sound and then fell to the floor. I did not appear to be breathing. Because I was in such a public place, the medical response was quick (less than five minutes) but I appeared to be dead for more than twenty minutes. One paramedic would not stop the chest compressions, just kept going, going, and going (per witnesses). The last thing I remember was a lady saying 'She must be drunk,' as I hit the floor.

I was in a tunnel but there were no walls, as we know them. Beautiful lights of every color in the rainbow surrounded me. It was like a childhood kaleidoscope. I felt like I was moving somehow and was floating on air. I was surrounded by feelings of warmth and peace. I didn't see or hear anyone, but did feel the presence of others. I was not afraid and felt tremendous peace. That is my NDE.

When I woke up in the hospital eight days later, I could not stop talking about the beautiful colored lights in the tunnel. I wanted everyone to understand what I had seen.

I was transported to the emergency room and still had no heartbeat. After several shocks with the defibrillator, my heart was restarted. I was told that I had no heartbeat for twenty to twenty-five minutes total and had been clinically dead - and there was a fear of what condition I would be in when I woke up. I was in a medically induced coma for the next eight days and have no memory of how I got out of the tunnel or anything else that had happened up to that point. May 28th was my fifty-third birthday and I spent it in the comatose state. When I finally awakened, I was so surprised to be in the hospital, but still felt extremely peaceful and calm. I now have an ICD implanted that should restart my heart if it should ever stop again. I was in the hospital until June 9, a total of sixteen days. I no longer fear dying, and am much more alive and in touch with my relationships with my family and friends. I hug them often and tell them that I love them, and those feelings sometimes bring me to tears. That is my experience and thanks for allowing me to share.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  05-25-10

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack  'sudden cardiac arrest, no symptoms or warning as it occurred'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was clinically dead for more than twenty minutes.  The cardiologist says I am extremely lucky to have survived at all. Less than ten percent of people who experience my condition outside of a hospital setting will survive.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very aware of the tunnel and beautiful colored lights - but the entire experience seemed like it could not be measured by time. It could have been seconds, days or years. There was no concept of time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no sense of time at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was definitely in a tunnel but it had no walls. I was surrounded by a warm feeling.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Lights - in beautiful colors like a kaleidoscope.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     Just the beautiful tunnel full of colors

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, tranquility and calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None - spiritual but not religious

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None - spiritual but not religious

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel much closer to my family and friends - and more patient and accepting of people in general.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Not as of yet, but somehow I am expecting to have these experiences.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience was meaningful and significant to me. I don't have a fear of dying anymore and believe that my journey when I leave here will be very peaceful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I started sharing it as soon as I was conscious and able to speak. Everyone believes me and says I give them chills when I talk about my NDE.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it had happened while I was clinically dead, there is no doubt in me that it is a hundred percent what I experienced.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has been four months and the memory is still that it is a hundred percent real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It was very thorough.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cheryl_b_nde.html