{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cherie_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Cherie M NDE 3931","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cherie M NDE 3931  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cherie M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1868 Cherie M NDE 3931  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In 2000 I was shot in the right temple point blank with a twenty-two caliber handgun. At first, I could hear everything but I was paralyzed and blind. I was speaking, but not sure if I could be heard.  It was as if I were in another dimension. I kept saying I'm not dead yet and I heard him go outside and then reenter. Then I heard him make the 911 call. 

All of the sudden there was a dark tunnel. I was being sucked through towards the light. When I got to the light, there was Jesus. It wasn't visual but there was no disputing who it was. He took me by the hand. The profoundly incredible peace was beyond conception. We walked hand and hand for some time. It was hard to tell because it was like there was no sense of time. I remember feeling the presence of my deceased father in the distance. I also remember not wanting to come back. It was bliss. Jesus told me only he has to choose and it wasn't time for me.

That's all I can recall before I came back into excruciating pain, still on my couch with horrible nausea, screaming to push me forward or roll me over, I was choking on my own blood and getting cold again. The last thing I heard was the paramedic saying, 'No you're not, calm down,' and the lights went out. I was told that when wheeled into Charity Hospital I was spitting in the surgeons' faces that I simply refused to die. They noted they had never seen that kind of will power to live in all their careers. They did two craniotomies removing seven ounces of my brain along with a bone in my skull and then replacing it but still leaving bullet fragments and metal plates. I was out of the hospital and walking within thirty days. I have had spiritual enlightenments and visions since. I never had them before, and a lot of déjà vu.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/09/2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was shot in the temple with a twenty-two caliber handgun.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Walking with Jesus.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Walking with Jesus.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no sense of time it seemed like.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Most of what I recall of the experience wasn't visual but I felt it and knew it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was sucked through a dark tunnel to the end of the light at the end that opened up.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Oh I saw the light alright. I was then engulfed in it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My memory is vague and limited

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Enriched, at peace in an eternal sense.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Much was discussed and happened but my recall unfortunately is limited.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was given some sort of insight to my destiny and purpose but limited memory of it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   non practicing catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I've been on a spiritual quest since.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I've been on a spiritual quest since.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I did but am not able to surface it yet. My memory is limited. The more I spiritually evolve now though, it is slowly getting more vivid.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The profound peace I experienced walking with Jesus. Also how there seemed to be no sense of time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had a whole day at a time of déjà vu. Where I knew what was going to happen before it happened all day. I have had visions and been spiritually tuned as well as psychically tuned.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Meeting with Jesus. I never put that much accent on Him prior. I usually pray to God. But it was definitely Jesus.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I get strange reactions but I don't care, I know how real it was and how different things are now.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I kept going over it in my mind to try to retain all I could. I knew no one would believe me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's real and when life seems to be at its worst, no one can take this from me. I also ground myself with it to relinquish fear. I was shot by someone else with a gun. I was shooting in the country that day and he called it in as a suicide attempt. I didn't remember for four months about being shot in the temporal lobe. I was lucky to ever get the memory. Then I found myself living in fear for the first time in my life and looking over my shoulder. Very Scary! But the reality of this experience grounds my fears. I realize I'm here for a purpose and God will never leave me or forsake me. I don't fear death but have feared more pain on this plane.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cherie_m_nde.html