{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cherie_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Cherie J Probable NDE 5040","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cherie J Probable NDE 5040  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cherie J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2686 Cherie J Probable NDE 5040  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am giving birth; much time goes by and the baby does not come out. I am not feeling pain because I have had an epidural. The epidural seems to be making my labor last so much longer. There are three men around me: my husband, the gynecologist and the anesthetist. I might feel support from their presence, except I am aware that the soccer World Cup event is taking place, and they all long for the baby to be born so they can go and watch the matches.

Then I am weightless, all is blue around me; there is a kind of light bridge to cross. At the other end of the bridge, there is more of the same blue - it's a blue path, and on it, there are people dressed in white robes, like monks. Their heads are covered, too. I don't see their faces but I trust them. One of the people parts from the group, looks at me, and waves me away with his hand, telling me to go back to where I came from. I feel strongly that I don't want to, I'd like so much to join them! I feel that this is my grandfather (whom I never knew personally; he died when I was seven months old). I ask him why he doesn't want me to join them, and he tells me, 'This is not your time; you have something very important to do right now.'

I say, 'When the time has come, do you promise you'll be there waiting for me?'

He answers, 'Yes, I'll be there, and the others will, too.'

I feel hot tears running down my face, but they are not sad tears. I hear a voice telling me, 'Push, Madam, push!'

Having forgotten, for the moment, about my labor, I answer, 'Why do you want me to push?'

'You are delivering, Madam.' he answers.

(Later they tell me that I was beaming while my face was covered in tears!)

Even then, I do not feel my body. The lightness feeling I am having is strange in contrast to the size of my belly as compared to the heaviness I have been experiencing for the last few months of my pregnancy.

They do an emergency cesarean section, and that's how my baby is born - a little boy who today is twenty and a half years old!

Since then, I do not fear death. I have a different approach to life now. I accept everything that happens to me - the good and less good. I often feel connected with people, even those I do not know well. Each time one of my relatives dies, the night before, I have dreams about relatives who have passed on. And I also know why I am dreaming about these dead relatives: they have come to greet the one who is about to leave.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  23 JUIN 1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was giving birth, and before I lost consciousness, I did not feel my life was threatened.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the whole experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the whole experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was a place which does not have any of the characteristics that we are familiar with on our Earth, in our Sky or even in Space. Instead, there was weightlessness everywhere, and no outlines to define things.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors sparkled despite some transparency, and there were no sharp, distinct features or outlines.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sound seemed very pure and was not interrupted by, or combined with, other sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Not an enclosure, rather, there was a light BRIDGE.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Several people, who were all dressed the same way. They were in front of me, at the other end of the light bridge. See the experience description, everything is explained.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The bridge was made of light and the beings had a kind of halo of light around them which prevented me from seeing their faces clearly.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       My feelings were unlike the feelings I usually have. I felt bathed in tenderness, goodness, and light. I was in a pure state - full of joy, love, and happiness. To me, this is what LOVE is!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in life, and in the afterlife, but no longer in what I was taught during my religious education.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in life, and in the afterlife, but no longer in what I was taught during my religious education.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned about space and time after life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am less anxious, more serene; I accept what occurs; I do not resist because I know it is in the order of things. What happens must happen and you will know what's what, if you can recognize signs.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I seem to predict things which will occur, and I communicate with the souls of other living people.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years later, to a friend who believes in this sort of thing. Today, twenty years later, I am on a quest to become a better person, and, by chance ('chance,' you bet!) I read an article about NDEs; so I typed 'NDE' on Google and - here we are!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Yes, real, and I was so much filled with this tenderness, this love that I received! I did not want to share this with anybody, except my baby whom I enveloped in it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     And I know that because I experienced it with my body, my heart, my soul.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   During meditation.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am glad I experienced it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cherie_j_probable_nde.html