{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chen_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Chen M NDE 3866","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chen M NDE 3866  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chen M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1828 Chen M NDE 3866  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					[Chinese translated to English, sorry that there may be some errors in the translation since my mother language is not English.]:



An NDE that happened to me eight years ago has completely changed me.

I had a family and my father was very strict upon me. I believed in Marxism. I joined the Chinese Communist Party when I was in university and I had a great ambition when I was employed. I deeply believed in materialism and I strongly rejected anything that related to idealism. Neither did I believe in God.

However, I experienced an NDE and it has changed me completely.

I arrived at the clinic around 8:00 o'clock and the nurse told me I had to inject penicillin. I told the nurse that I have an allergic reaction to penicillin but the nurse told me that it would be okay. The nurse then offered me some other medicine that may reduce any possible allergic reaction. I was injected and the nurse left the room to treat other patients.

About thirty seconds, I experienced a strong tinnitus and I dropped into a dark tunnel, rushing with an incredible speed. I was extremely frightened because I didn't know what happened to me. I could neither shout nor stop, and I couldn't go back or ask for help. I then realized that it was caused by the allergic reaction. I was in despair, floating in the tunnel. I couldn't imagine why I did not lose my consciousness and why I still exist.

However, my fear gradually disappeared. I felt myself floating somewhere and it was comfortable.

An indescribable 'stream of consciousness' was accompanying me. He gave me the answer to my every question and he comforted my frightened heart.

I didn't know how to describe him. He had no shape or voice, but he was bright and broadminded, warm and gentle. He could answer every question. He surrounded me and guided me. He communicated with me through telepathy. He revealed everything of the universe.

I was no longer in the tunnel but I was in the bright warm world. I felt a complete relief from pain and suffering. I felt the existence of everlasting harmony and happiness.

He told me everything that I wanted to know. He told me the world consisted of molecules and atoms and they keep moving. Then he showed me a tree that was beside my window in my room. What surprised me is that I had greatly improved my vision incredibly. I did see a world with moving molecules and atoms. The feeling was extraordinary and I felt my consciousness was much faster than ever before.

I asked him whether I'm a part of the world too and he said yes. He told me everything is moving, there was no death, there was no birth, everything is just cycling eternally. He said that this is the very truth of universe.

He then told me that the so-called 'death' is nothing but another stage of life. Consciousness still exists even if you died. Our flesh is like a TV set and our consciousness is the signal. The signal still exists even when the TV set is broken. The consciousness of human beings is a kind of energy and it will never diminish.

But he also told me you cannot communicate with the living and your parents cannot realize that you are still alive. I suddenly realized that I must take care of my parents and my baby.

I felt my soul and my body is half-related to my body and that I existed in several dimensions. My soul was communicating with 'a consciousness stream' and meanwhile I could see everything on the world with unimaginable agility. I could hear, but the sound was distorted and delayed. I heard an old man complaining and people walking. I could even see through a closet and discovered some coat hangers inside it. Soon I heard my mobile phone ring. I could even predict what the doctor is going to say, and I was correct!

Yet I could still control my body. I controlled my lung to breathe in order to show that I'm alive. I realized that I still have my parents and a baby to take care of so I must draw the attention of the doctor and he might bring me back. I controlled my hand to grasp the doctor's hand tightly.

Then I felt a heavy stunning and the world spun around. I found myself returned to my body. I started to vomit. I vomited a lot and the doctor could not believe it, since I didn't eat anything at all. I told my doctor about my NDE and he was frightened.

After the NDE, I was no more afraid of death at all. I know how the world runs and I had a thorough understanding to the universe. I cared for neither fame nor money. I started to have concern about the suffering in the world. I comfort others who are in despair. I make them realize that death is not horrible. I filled my heart with love and joy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Around November. 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Penicillin allergic reaction.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The time I was floating, seeing the atoms and molecules of the world. I felt I was thinking so fast.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt I could exist in several dimensions, while I could still control my body.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see much more clearly than before. I could see the atoms, the molecules. I could see how they move and how they react each other.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard things distorted and delayed. I thought it was caused by a way too fast consciousness and alertness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A dark tunnel appeared after a tinnitus in my brain. It sounded like a train passing. Firstly, I felt I was moving at a high speed in a tunnel and then I felt I was floating inside it. And then the 'stream of consciousness' came.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I was accompanied by an indescribable 'stream of consciousness'. He had no shape. It seems he is just the light. He told me the rules of this world. He made me learn a lot and he comforted me.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I found myself in a purely white dimension, I can't tell whether I had seen a light or not.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, Calm, Happiness, Sense of Knowing Everything, Relief, Harmony, Anxiety, Worries (for my family).

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I know the truth of the world, of the universe, but I can't tell if it had something to do with religion.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I know the truth of the world, of the universe, but I can't tell if it had something to do with religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The 'stream of consciousness' told me everything about the world. He told me how the world runs. The universe has no beginning or ending. Everything is just cycling. Death does not exist. It is just a boundary and a process. Consciousness still exists even if you died. Our flesh is like a TV set and our consciousness is the signal. The signal still exists even if the TV set is broken. The consciousness of human beings is a kind of energy and it will never diminish.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I filled my life with love and I loved to help others. I don't care about money or fame anymore. I care about the people suffering in the world.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Some of the experience can be described such as floating and thinking, but I cannot describe the existence of 'the stream of consciousness' that was around me which kept communicating with me during my NDE.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        1. It has revealed the secret of the universe.  2. I was no longer afraid of death.  3. I filled my life with love and I loved to help others.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this experience on the Internet. People believed me and they were influenced by my experience. They believed it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it happened around me and it was not caused by hallucinations.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still felt it happened around me and it was not caused by hallucinations, even though a lot of years have passed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   [The author did not provide any information.]

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I browsed the www.nderf.org and I found there are many experiencers in the USA or in Europe, but none of them are from China. This may be a good example. It is a proof to show that the NDE is global, no matter in East or in West. (Translator).

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questionnaire is very comprehensive.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chen_m_nde.html