{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charmaine_m_ndes.html","mytitle":"Charmaine M NDEs 5313","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charmaine M NDEs 5313  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charmaine M NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2791 Charmaine M NDEs 5313  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

A Walk On The Other Side: A Young Woman's Near Death Experiences That Prove The Continuity Of Life After Death&nbsp; Check it out at:&nbsp; Click Here


    

   
              				                        					  				    I have written a book called 'A Walk On The Other Side', which is all about my Near Death Experiences that happened, both during my time in the army, and after I had left. It explains all I was shown, and what I learnt about the spirit world, and it gives information about what happens to us once we pass on from this life. 

I was in the British Army at the age of nineteen. I was held prisoner, and raped and beaten many times while I was there. At times I was beaten so badly my heart stopped, and I stopped breathing. I could see with my eyes what looked like a silver cord floating from my body to the roof of the room. The first time I remember leaving my body, I felt a jerking feeling, the type you get when you fall asleep and feel you are falling and jump! I remember seeing my body on the floor, and seeing those that had raped me looking at me and saying, 'She is dead'. I looked up and saw my Gran, who had died when I was a child, and who I had loved dearly. She told me to go with her. With a flash of light I was in a lovely little farm cottage and was sitting by a log fire. My Gran told me I was in the world of Spirits. It seemed like I was with my grandma for ages before she told me that I must return to earth, as it was not my time.

When I returned to my body, I could see the men who had beaten me saying, 'She is now breathing'.

I had two more of these experiences, and the second time I was in the same room after having no food and water for days. I could hear my heart beating as I saw the same silver cord float from my body. This time, after looking down on myself, I felt angry and this anger caused things to move about in the room where my body lay. Things smashed on the floor, and the men in the room were scared and running. My Gran came to me again and told me I didn't deserve to stay there, that I would be grounded on the earth if I did not go with her. I followed her again, and this time the experience seemed longer. I met more family members who had passed away, and pets from childhood. I saw amazing flowers that were bigger than we have on earth, and fields of green and blue seas. I also got to see my Mother who was still alive, because I wanted to go home. My Gran said that I only had to think of her, and I would be with her. She could not see me, but I could see her.

Again, I was told that this was not my time to die and was taken back to my body. The men who had beaten me were scared and said, 'She is a witch'.

The third time this happened I was trying to take my own life. After escaping these evil people in the army and getting back home, I couldn't cope and wanted to be back with my spirit family. I took pills and again, was seeing the silver cord. This time I was taken away for a long time, for what seemed like hours, but was only minutes in earth time. I was told many things about this earth and why we are here. I was told that I had to go through this suffering to help others see that we survive death and live on. This is the reason I wrote the book; to let others know what happened to me, and how I lived on after death. I know what I went through was real, because I was able to describe family members who had died when I was young, who I had never seen before and could never have known what they looked like. I was also able to predict the future and things that were going to happen. 

I was very privileged to be given this Journey to the 'Other Side of Life'. I feel that in all I was shown and taught, I must go on to live a Spiritual life. I must help others understand and learn about the 'Other Side of Life', about the reason we are all born, what we are here for, and what happens once we pass on to Spirit. 

I was always a Spiritual person, as I was brought up in a family that were all very Spiritual minded. I also had a Mother and Grandmother that were well-known and respected Mediums. So it was not surprising that I always followed such a Spiritual Path. 

This path was opened up to me more after I had gone through a terrible trauma. Because of all my pain and suffering, I felt that I had a duty to go on and help others and make a difference to the Earth, it's people and creatures. 

After my Trauma, a new way of life stood before me, and I felt that I had to help others through the various gifts I held. I was born a Natural healer and Psychic, but through this trauma, I found that these gifts got more and more profound, and I knew that I had to use them for the good of all. 

I found that these natural gifts were now ready for me to use through using Reiki healing, my counselling work and the various other Spiritual work that I was doing.

There is no escape from the clutches of death, and each of us must face our own demise eventually. But I feel I have done much more than that. I have stared death in the face and lived to tell the tale, as the survivor of a Near Death Experience. My life has been a personal battlefield, from my time serving in the British army, to my brave fight against cancer. In 'A Walk On The Other Side', I relive my story of tragedy, trauma and loss, in order to guide and support others through the darkness and into the light. In an amazing account of my Near Death Experiences, I illuminate a truer reality than that of our everyday consciousness, exploring the reasons for our birth and death, as well as revealing the existence of a vibrant, living truth beyond the veil. 'A Walk On The Other Side' teaches us how to move through pain and suffering, and embrace the end of life, and the passing from the mortal state to the spiritual.

I knew that I had been given a glimpse into the Spirit world and what some would term 'Heaven'. I have come to believe that I have a duty to share what I have seen, so you can know what this Beautiful place, that we all go to was like, and felt like. 

I hope that the book will help others understand a little more about the reason we are all here and what we all share in common. It will help to take away the Taboo of Death and help those who have lost a dear one see that they are safe and well. From my living proof, I can tell you all that we do live on and that no Soul ever dies! 

I was able to make this journey so that I could return to help others and share with you all the knowledge of the very existence of us all, and the knowledge that we will all take that 'Walk on the Other Side'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  year 1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I had the jerking feeling and had left my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     What seemed like hours to me were minutes on earth.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear more and hear people talking about me in other rooms, as if they were in the same room.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my family, friends and pets who had passed away when I was young. They were all happy, and I saw them in many different places, like the seaside or a garden. My pet cat Sammy, who lost his tail when he was young, was there too, and his tail was grown back! Family who had been ill were well and happy.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a silver cord.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Gardens and many times the sea which was more beautiful than we have on earth

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt total peace, and it felt normal, as if this was the real me. In the second experience I did feel anger at those that had hurt me, but after seeing my Gran I felt peaceful and happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was told I would get cancer, and it came true. I was told about wars and they have happened, and also about the attacks on the USA, and they happened too.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more spiritual.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more spiritual.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told why we are here and why we suffer. I was told that we all have to live out lessons on earth for our soul to grow, like being a child learning new things. We suffer to learn how to cope with things and to develop our soul.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel that I can't be around people who do not at least feel we live on, as I know we do.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am more psychic and can see into the future.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I feel this had to happen to me in order to help others know that we live on after death. I was told this planet will not live long, and people need to know we will all live on.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was years later that I talked about it. Just last year I wrote the book.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was able to describe people I had never seen before, not even from a photo. I was told things about the world which have so far come true.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know this was real and not a dream, because it has changed my life for the better.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I know what happened to me is real, and I am very lucky, I feel, to have had this happen.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charmaine_m_ndes.html