{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charlotte_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Charlotte A NDE 5049","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charlotte A NDE 5049  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charlotte A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2613 Charlotte A NDE 5049  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a double mastectomy and tug-flap reconstruction. I lost a great deal of blood and they did not have enough to transfuse. My blood pressure dropped and I flat lined for a bit.

I was initially delirious and frightened by darkness and a sense of a void. However, shortly after it all began, I felt encompassed by light (I didn't see it, I felt it) and an unearthly awareness from someone/thing imparted the knowledge that I was going to be fine. It wasn't about life or death just that everything was going to be fine. I felt connected to a larger energy than I have known in my lucid life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know. I was on heavy narcotics but I felt very conscious and alert.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I sensed light by feel, not vision. I sensed words by emotion not voice.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It seemed like audible sounds were clouded as though I was outside the area of sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I didn't enter into, it sort of encompassed me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Meet or see? No. Have an awareness of presence, yes. Security and love for me was instilled upon me.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I felt darkness and light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     maybe...i had a sense of being elsewhere in the light

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extremely peaceful and content.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Religious, no. Spirituality, yes. I am seeking.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'None, but spiritually seeking'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Religious, no. Spirituality, yes. I am seeking.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have had an anxiety disorder in the past and it has all but cleared up since this experience. During the experience, I gain an awareness of grounding in myself and connectedness to a larger energy and a sense of peace and my place within peace.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more confident and grounded with myself in relationship thus, I question them less.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I seem more connected and aware and I can read people much better; I have much stronger intuition about people's motivations that are usually later proven to be correct.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sense of peace.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About a year after the experience my wife and me started talking about it. It was really difficult and scary for her to potentially lose me. Now we are talking about it much more often.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Just that people claim to have had them.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Unquestionably real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Unquestionably real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charlotte_a_nde.html