{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charlie_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Charlie D NDE 2506","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charlie D NDE 2506  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charlie D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						789  Charlie D NDE  2506  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I went to the doctor on a Monday evening in July 1975 I was sent to the hospital and the next day I had emergency surgery for a ruptured appendix and possible peritonitis. I remember nothing until sometime Saturday afternoon. I (thought) that I had awakened because I saw the old man in the next bed watching a baseball game I still remember the play that was made and the room was bright and in vivid color. I sat up in bed when I saw three people standing at the foot of my bed. One person was my (maternal) grandmother, with whom I was very close and who died in 1965.  One person was my cousin's grandmother (I was fond of her) who had died in the early 1970's.  The other person was a woman I knew to be my aunt who was my mother's sister and who died in early childhood, circa 1919, and BEFORE my mother was born in 1929.

My grandmother was standing, dressed in a white gown, and bathed in, sort of back-lit, by a bright light, as were the other two. My grandmother had lost a leg to diabetes yet she now had both legs. She told me I was going to be all right and that there was a plan for me. I heard the nurse walking down the corridor and 'knew' that she was coming to my room - heighten sensory feelings. My grandmother told me to lie down and again stated that I would be all right.

I turned to the left as the three women 'faded from sight', looked back at my pillow and 'saw' myself laying there with my eyes closed. I heard my grandmother say, 'Go to sleep now,' and I felt myself 'falling' into my body while I 'heard' what sounded like a metal trash can being struck by a 'million volts of electricity' and I 'felt' the atoms of my body 'buzzing and vibrating'.

My eyes then popped open and I saw the nurse enter my room with a syringe but I told her to get out and looked for my grandmother but no one was there.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1975  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Surgery-related       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I walked around for two weeks with a ruptured appendix.  Then underwent emergency surgery.  The doctor said my condition was serious and peritonitis had set in.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Heightened sensory and visual awareness.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the end.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Heightened sensory and visual awareness.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heightened sensory and sound awareness.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Deceased grandmother, aunt and other.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   My grandmother was bathed in, sort of back-lit, by a bright light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Awe, peace, noted unusual items (grandmother having both legs in spite having lost one) yet it did not seem unusual.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I saw a woman I knew to be my aunt who was my mother's sister and who died in early childhood BEFORE my mother was born.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Both prior to this event and after I seem sometimes to sense danger or get the feeling of ESP. Also in 1970 while in the US Army I 'heard' my grandmother warn me to leave an area where I was standing. After I left a helicopter crashed right where I was standing.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My grandmother.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within one or two days. Disbelief.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Absolutely real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Totally real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charlie_d_nde.html