{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charlie_d_nde_4510.html","mytitle":"Charlie D NDE 4510","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charlie D NDE 4510  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charlie D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2269 Charlie D NDE 4510  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After the motor vehicle accident, I was brought to the hospital via ambulance and have no recall of that. Once I was in the intensive care unit, I went into cardiac arrest. 

I seemed to drift away and then suddenly, I accelerated not with my body but with my spirit or essence. I went up through the ceiling, into a path/tunnel that led to an all-knowing, all-loving, comforting, and peaceful light.  This light was a familiar, yet embracing light. The tunnel/path had silhouettes of beings on the other side of some undefined boundary I could hear sounds but not intelligible. This place was free of pain and I felt I was one with all. I had arrived to a place without pain. My vision was 360 degrees it was profoundly beautiful. 

I remember stopping I don't remember how or why. I did have a past life review. Then I found my spirit floating at the ceiling of the intensive care unit looking for something. I saw a patient with a very high fever another with all kinds of head bandages. Then I saw all this activity around a bed and came over it.  It was ME. At that very second, I burst into my body I was back to the awful pain. I realized I had been given a choice, life or death.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/27/1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  It was an auto accident. My car was hit by a drunk driver. I was the only survivor. The person who was drunk died a few days later (which I knew but didn't know how) My girl friend was also killed.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) MVA I sustained 13 broken bones 300 stiches and went through 20 unites of blood.  I was driving my girlfriend to Kennedy Airport in New York when we were struck head on without any warning. Marilyn was killed on impact. The drunk driver died a few days later. I was thrown thirty feet from the car in which we were driving. I wanted to get up and get back to the car which was physically impossible due to the injuries I sustained.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Consciousness and alertness came quickly into focus.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Consciousness and alertness came quickly into focus.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist never saw a window or a door I don't know why that comes to mind.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was vision I had 360 degree vision it was a wonderland.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When I first left my body The sound was distant or muffled. When I returned it became clearer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Through the ceiling and it felt like I was a rocket blasting toward the beautiful loving light, a channel to the light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was very bright yet you could look at it and it was part of you.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was traveling through it seemed like outer space to the light.It was beyound words and full comprehension

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute love, warmth of the light and yet being part of the light all at once. Joy at being, knowing you have all of life's truth within.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It helped me to live my life better to understand physical and spiritual beauty.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I feel more intuitive with people, animals and everyday life choices.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I felt I was in a tunnel /path and other things where outside this boundary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Baptized Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Traditional religion is gone for me. I believe we are the sum total of God collectively and singularly, from every molecule to every grain of sand.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Traditional religion is gone for me. I believe we are the sum total of God collectively and singularly, from every molecule to every grain of sand.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That the sum total of our existence, our purpose is unconditional and pure LOVE to every aspect of life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have become at better person, who understands pain, love and joy. That honesty and integrity are all part of loving yourself and your fellow man.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel some times I have ESP. There is something else that other people who are good friends say I project such positive energy that they need a 'Charlie fix'.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        After all the pain and suffering I would suffer it all again for that moment in time. It profoundly changed my being.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The very first time was to a doctor friend that I met while recovering from this accident I was in the Hospital for seventy days. The doctor was from India and he would come and visit after his shift. I told him about the OBE and I explained to him how wonderful it was.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I live today a much better person who knows who he is and fiber of my being.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm sixty-two years old with endless energy, due to knowing the true purpose of life. It is a never-ending reality which I'll carry ever forward. This experience has never let me down knowing about all the love we have to share.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I've come across a book that might be of interest 'DMT the Spirit Molecule' by Rick Strassman M.D.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       As a result and benefit of this experience I have no fear of death and in a hospital environment I'm able to use this experience for patient benefit.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charlie_d_nde_4510.html