{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charles_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Charles T NDE 4793","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charles T NDE 4793  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charles T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2428 Charles T NDE 4793  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After dinner on a Sunday evening, I went upstairs to change clothes and my wife was with me. When we entered the bathroom my wife noticed me turning white and then completely blue as I fell to the floor. I was not breathing, had no pulse and my heart was not beating. A friend of my son came and gave me CPR until the ambulance arrived. According to the ambulance report, it took the paramedics six minutes to arrive after the 911 phone call and another four minutes to start reviving me. It took them another ten minutes before they could get a weak pulse and shallow breathing by shocking me with a defibrillator three times. On the way to the hospital, my heart quit beating another two times and they had to shock me twice again. I did not know what had happened to me in the physical realm but I remember all the experience in the spirit world.

At first, I felt like I was floating in dark space. I realized soon after I was dead. I remember my mind asking 'Man, I'm dead, why am I dead and what happened to me?' Right after these questions came to my mind, the next event happened. I realized I was no longer in my physical body. Some force like a vacuum cleaner, only hundreds of times greater, was sucking every pore from my body. The next thing I realized was me being in complete darkness. It was like being in a refrigerator at midnight with the door closed on a moonless and starless night. I couldn't see my hand when I put it to my face.

I sensed evil around me and even though I thought I could move about, I froze because of fear. I thought I was alone until I saw three demon like figures standing by my feet and talking in three different languages. I was laying on a cold slab in a dark chamber of what I found out later to be Hell. While the demons were talking and looking down at me, there was a tiny light coming from behind them and I could see their silhouettes. They were about three to four feet high with skinny bodies, arms, and legs. The light behind them was getting bigger and closer so I quit looking at the demons and concentrated on the light. Because of an earlier experience in my life, I knew the light to be Jesus Christ. He engulfed me in His light and took my spirit and soul out of Hell. He replaced them in my physical body in order to live again.

When I awoke in the emergency room, my wife told me what happened in the physical realm and I told her what happened in the spirit realm. While I was in the hospital, no one could get a response to their questions so they assumed brain damage. After three hours of lying there and only repeating 'I died, I went to Hell and it was horrible' while tears were streaming down my face, I finally awoke. Since that time, I have been clinically dead another two times from cardiac arrests and suffered two additional heart attacks. Also since that time, I have been attacked and harassed by demons to this very day. I wrote a book about all my true encounters with death, hell, demons, angels, visions and God-sent dreams. The book title is 'The Key Holder of Death and Hell'. It was published November 2009.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 30, 1996'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Cardiac arrest, clinically dead for twenty minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When in the afterlife.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When in the afterlife.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Was floating in space and time seemed to stand still.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw and heard demons talking as I lay on a cold slab feeling naked.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light surrounded me as my soul was carried out of hell and returned to my physical body.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I experienced Hell

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I experienced all my senses such as touch, coldness, hearing, sight, fear, memory of my Earthly life and the mistakes I had made, which was regret. Images of my life flashed through my mind like a movie. Questions passed through my mind so fast as if a hundred questions would enter my mind and I could answer them all at one time.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Events from my life on Earth went through my mind like a movie.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I never tried to leave the chamber in which I was being held against my will. I was scared to try and move although I felt like I could.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   born again Christian- non denomination

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   born again Christian-non denomination

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I learned how to appreciate people more than ever and to show love to all because you don't appreciate your life until you lose it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I had no special gifts but demons attacked and harassed me. This still exists today.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I was a born again Christian, believing in Jesus as my Lord and savior, and was confused when I ended up in Hell instead of heaven. I think the reason God let me experience death without Him was to tell the world that Hell does exist and to spread that fact to the lost and backsliding Christians.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was asked by Churches to give my testimony starting about two weeks after the event. I spoke in front of seven church congregations in 1996. After many other spiritual encounters I wrote my book.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I heard through people that NDE existed but I was not curious about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After what I saw, heard and experienced, I studied scriptures in the Bible that related to my experience and the scriptures duplicated my encounter.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     God sent a messenger to me in 1996 to convince me to write a book, but I was in business for myself and could not spare the time. I also did not know anything about writing at that time. Only after I retired and other spiritual encounters had crossed my path over the years did I learn how to write and express my encounters with death, hell, demons, angels, visions and God-sent dreams.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Is there anything else you would like to add concerning the experience? You can list my website concerning my book. The website is www.thekeyholderofdeathandhell.com. I would like to save more souls from hell.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charles_t_nde.html