{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charles_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Charles S NDE 22034","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charles S NDE 22034  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charles S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1906 Charles S NDE 22034  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					First: I was five years old, sitting atop an electric pole looking down at mother huddled over me and yelling for me to wake up.

Second: I was shaving in the bathroom and I thought that I could be running late for an appointment. I suddenly found myself in the bedroom hovering over the bed, looking at the clock and thinking. When I was like this, I could see perfectly without my glasses. I had plenty of time and went back to shave. I looked in the mirror and knew that I had just had an out of body experience. No question about it. I wish I could do it again. But I can’t. Not now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1929 & 1955

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No       1 fell off porch.  2 happy getting  ready  to  go out

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The experience was cerebral. I did not see my body outside of my body. I could see other things but not myself outside of my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       On one hand, I was apparently out. On the other, I was wide awake and sharp as a tack.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just my mother.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     One: my front yard. Two: my bed and clock.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It wasn't different.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Totally normal and totally natural.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I returned to please my mother.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

What is your religion now?       Liberal   everlasting born again pagan or heathen in a pinch  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowledge that it was possible.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I can't tell.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       My feeling is that the essence that exists out of the body during these episodes is not nothing. If it is something, when will we be able to measure it? I would like to see a study where people dying are observed with some super high-tech electromagnetic wave recorder to determine if the brain waves might leave and could be followed to see what happens to them. To me NOTHING can achieve an out of body experience. It has to be something, and if it is something, it should be capable of being measured!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charles_s_nde.html