{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charles_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Charles N NDE 5223","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charles N NDE 5223  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charles N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2731 Charles N NDE 5223  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My Visit to Heaven

I had a back surgery in which the anesthesiologist gave me too much anesthesia and I died on the operating table. 

When this happened, I was sent to a place where I found myself inside a large building like the Parthenon, with those big columns. To the right, I saw a crimson statue of some kind dragon or beast, like a Chinese lion. As I looked at the columns, I saw from between them that it was night. Coming from a doorway, which led in the direction of the right hand corner of the building, I saw a bright light. So I walked toward the light and, as I did, I saw a hallway, which turned to the right. Its walls were made of gray-veined granite, the kind of stone often used to build mausoleums. 

As I started down the hall, I remembered my daughter, and I thought I couldn't leave because I had to take care of her. A voice in my head told me she would be all right. As I continued down the hallway, I saw the light getting brighter. I started looking for the source of the light, because I couldn't see any windows or fluorescent lights in the hall. To my surprise, I saw that the light was radiating right through the walls! At the end of this hall was a brighter light coming from what seemed like another hallway, again to the right. As soon as I got down there, eager to look to the right and see what was around that corner, I suddenly awoke in the recovery room. They told me I had died. I responded, 'I know.'

I am not afraid of death now, because I have seen the light, and I am proud to say that I have the knowledge that I will never feel that wonderful joy and peace again until I am there, totally, after my life on Earth is over. But now I know for sure what is awaiting me. God Bless You, Charles.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2001 i think

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related.    Other was in surgery to reinstall a faulty neurostimulator and received to much anesthesia respiration stopped and cardio

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Almost from the very start, when I saw myself in a fetal position in the midst of a maze. That was right before I found myself in the dark Roman structure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Yes, I saw some things which let me know that I wasn't alive, or that I was dying.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was a hallway.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     in the story

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First, anxiousness about being separated from my daughter, and then peace, and then disappointment, because I didn't get to see what was around the corner in the next hallway.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     In the sense that I am pretty sure where we go after death.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I didn't make it to the last turn.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   bapticostal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My daughter will be taken care of if anything happens to me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it immediately.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard stories.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Right away I saw the experience as 'definitely real.' I knew it was real. Seeing is believing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Now I still see the experience as 'definitely real.'

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charles_n_nde.html