{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charles_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Charles M Probable NDE 7026","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charles M Probable NDE 7026  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charles M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3540 Charles M Probable NDE 7026  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In 1960, I was 6 years old and drowning.  I saw the events of my life passing rapidly. I had the impression of going through a tunnel and then I saw a light. 

In the morning of November 14, 2013, I was at my mother's house. 

I have to specify that on November 13th, around 6:00 pm, I left my mother who was at the end of her life in a hospital. After telling her that I would be back next morning, I asked my brother to call me if her state got worse.  

Between 6:00-6:45 am, I was lying awake in my mother's house.  I started to feel a beneficial presence approaching rapidly.  I sensed great serenity and joy, with a touch of solemn-ness. 

At that moment, I perceived that this as a very singular experience, without making any link with my mother. A few minutes after this experience, I got a phone call from my brother at the hospital.  He told me that mother had died. My brother fell asleep in the chair at the side of my mother's bed.  He woke up at the moment she exhaled her last breath.  He couldn't inform me about my mother's state, to allow me to come and be with her. 

Strangely, on the morning of November 14th, at the hospital, I recalled my drowning at the age of 6 years.  What I experienced at that moment came back to my memory.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1960 et 2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drowning.   Other: En 1960 Lors d'une noyade - Évènement mettant la vie en danger mais sans mort clinique    En 2013 Lors du décès de ma mère    In 1960 my life was at risk. (Probable NDE)  In 2013 my life wasn't at risk at all. (ADC)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In 1960, while drowning. In 2013, at my mother's moment of death.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clear and precise.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No auditory experience

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     In 1960, I had the feeling going through a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   In 1960, I believe. In 2013, the sensation of luminosity during the approach of the presence.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In 1960, a sensation of panic and astonishment. In 2013, a feeling of great serenity and joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     In 2013 the reminiscence of the event I experienced in 1960.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   J'étais de religion chrétienne catholique lors de de l'évènement de 1960.  Lors de de l'évènement de 2013 je ne pratiquais plus ma religion depuis de nombreuses années et j'étais assez septique, désillusionné concernant une vie après la mort. En toute honnêteté, j'étais pragmatique et d'esprit scientifique ayant de sérieux doutes à l'égard d'une vie après la mort.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm convinced of a life after death.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Suite à l'évènement de novembre 2013 je suis persuadé qu'il y a une vie après la mort.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Lors de de l'évènement de 2013 je ne pratiquais plus ma religion depuis de nombreuses années et j'étais assez septique, désillusionné concernant une après-vie. En toute honnêteté, j'étais pragmatique et d'esprit scientifique ayant de sérieux doutes à l'égard d'une vie après la mort.  Pour faire suite à cette expérience, hors de tout sentiment religieux, j'ai la certitude d'un ailleurs après la mort, d'une conscience plus aigüe de l'importance d'une vie d'amour, de compréhension et de compassion.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have the certainty of a beyond after death, a sharper awareness of the importance of a life of love, of understanding and compassion.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Je suis persuadé qu'il y a un niveau de conscience qui me transcende.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     J'ai maintenant la conviction que l'amour est ce qui donne un sens à notre existence.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain     Suite à l'expérience du mois de novembre 2013, j'ai le sentiment qu'il y a un ailleurs après la mort et que là où est ma mère elle est heureuse.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Être sensible et bienveillant à l'égard d'autrui.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     L'amour est l'essence de la vie.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm more thoughtful towards others and feel more compassion. The more resentments that I felt and sustained, during many years, towards people that hurt me, have practically disappeared.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    On the evening of November 14th, my aunt and my brother didn't react specifically about the event I experienced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   No knowledge at all in 1960, when I was 6 years old.  In 2013, yes.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The strange thing is that following the experience of last 14th November, the buried memory of the NDE at the age of 6 years resurfaced.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charles_m_probable_nde.html