{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charles_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Charles M NDE 2233","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charles M NDE 2233  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charles M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						624  Charles M NDE  2233  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was at the gym, working out in preparation for work.  This is a normal routine for me. I remember having a massive constant pain on the left side of my head.  I was contemplating stopping my workout as the pain was driving me to tears. I remember talking to the friends; I was working out with, telling them that I could no longer work out with them because of the excruciating pain. I then remember lying down on the mat to rest. Apparently, I collapsed and hit my mouth on a work out machine prior to hitting the floor and so one of my friends phoned 911 for emergency assistance.

I remember telling the paramedics about my pain.  It was still present and devastating, and spreading down from my head to my back. The paramedics though that I may have hurt myself working out to which I constantly reminded them that this was not true and that I was not exaggerating the extent of my pain. I also told them that I knew what they were talking about due to me being a police officer and that I understood people exaggerating about their pain.  

As the ambulance took off speedily down the street, I remember telling the paramedic to have the driver turn off the siren because of my headache. I kept my eyes closed because I knew that I was dying due to the excruciating pain I was having. The paramedic kept asking me to open my eyes because he wanted to observe my pupils. I refused to open my eyes due to having seen many people die on my job and how people look down over them into their face when they have departed. I stated to the paramedic that I was not ‘going out like that’ meaning people looking at you in horror, as you lay dead. 

I remember really praying to God that I was ready to die but I didn't want to die because I wanted to continue here on earth with my wife of seven years. I did not want her to go through the agony of losing her husband as she had already lost her father who had been buried just days before this incident. I remember telling the Lord that I needed to stay here so I could preach the gospel fulfilling his last commandment located in Matthew 28.

I spoke only seven more words to God in my prayer, which was ‘into thy hands I commit my spirit’, then I observed myself coming out of my body and I was floating up near the ceiling of the ambulance watching the paramedic franticly trying to resuscitate me. I heard the paramedic shout to his partner that he was losing me and I remember floating out of the ceiling. When I reached the top of the ceiling (on the outside) I observed two angels who were very frightening to look at, very strong, and about 9 or 10 feet tall. We kept floating upward right into space and I was amazed but not scared.

I remember telling the angels not to drop me because of my fear of heights. The angels did not drop me even though I was trying to pull away from them. Once we arrived in heaven, I saw Jesus Christ who I expect was Jesus who is God now in our spiritual realm of things. I remember the angels placing me down as I was looking around and remembering how the bible described the streets of heaven being paved with pure gold, but I could not see due to a vast mist that overshadowed the ground (or surface) of heaven. 

I remember seeing God (if it is safe to say) come out of a room that was located to the left corner of the room that the angels had safely put me in. I observed him as he held on to the doorknob of this particular room as he came out backwards. I noticed his countenance, he appeared to have on a long robe that you could clearly look through, the gold belt he had on, and looking at his face scared the living crap out of me as he had the face of a lion. 

I stood looking and was amazed at what I was observing. I then saw the angels flying back to me (I only noticed them out of the corner of my eyes as I was afraid to look at them head on) At this time I noticed that God didn't say anything to me, but looked at me and spoke to me by mental telepathy or something like it. I felt that he was only telling me not to be afraid, and then I felt okay. I was looking around to see if I was able to see anyone else but I didn’t see anyone. I remember feeling very sorry for God because I felt that he was lonely due to me not seeing anybody else there besides the holy angels.

I looked at him and observed him looking back at me. I was thinking at the time that kneeling down before him was the right thing to do but I was afraid to do so because I did not see a place for me to kneel down due to the great mist that was present. As well, having a fear of heights, I thought that if I did it would result in me falling through the heaven and back to earth. God only looked at me as I was standing what appeared to be about 15 or 20 yards away from him. I was frightened due to him having the face of a lion.  I also remember him holding his arm up toward me gesturing me back to earth and to my body. 

When I got to my body, I motioned for the paramedic to stop doing what he was doing to me (placing the electrodes on my chest and shocking me to get a heartbeat). I stated loudly to him that he would not believe what had just happened to me.  He interrupted me saying, 'You scared the shit out of me!' He stated that I had coded and that they had arranged for a helicopter to transport me to a hospital that specializes in brain injuries. It was a long rehabilitation for me because of my illness. I now suffer from having mild seizures. I didn’t have to go through this alone as I had my aunt to help share my burdens with prayer and supplications. I thank God for her.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'JUNE 05,2003'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         'HAD THIS ILLNESS WHILE WORKING OUT IAT THE GOLD'S GYM IN ELLENWOOD, GEORGIA.'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) I HAD A TOTAL OF 4 BRAIN ANUERYSMS.ASSOCIATED WITH A STROKE.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I crossed over into eternity.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   You cannot touch anything or pick up anything.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Due to having the aneurysms, my brain was injured affecting other organs along with my eyesight.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could not hear anything or feel anything but the angels holding me on either side of my body.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     Not other than the angels.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light that was interjecting from the Lord’s body when I was in heaven.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     ONCE YOU DIE ,THERE ARE NO LIMITS AS TO TIME AND SPACE.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A sense of calmness along with no pain whatsoever.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I learnt that tomorrow is not promised to anybody, and that you have to be ready or you will spend eternity in hell if you are not right with God one way or the other.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I still hold on to my faith that has risen to new heights since this has happened.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I still hold on to my faith that has risen to new heights since this has happened.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I could reflect on my knowledge of biblical things.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I found that people don’t want to hear about experiences like this one because it seems too frightening to them or they don’t want to come to terms with this type of thing.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes. I now know, without a shadow of doubt, where I am going when it’s all over the next time.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I try to tell everyone that I meet. This experience is not easy to hold onto without telling someone else.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew at the time of death you would cross over into eternity and that it was no such thing as a second chance. I still don’t know why the Lord sent me back here. Other people have suggested that it probably was not my time to go. In my theology, why did this happen in the first place?  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was a real occurrence that was corroborated by medical officials namely the ambulance unit plus the helicopter unit who had my vital signs in front of them.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Please make up your mind who you will serve, either God or mammon. You cannot serve two masters. You cannot hang onto God and to the things of this world. This type of thing doesn’t happen every day so just believe in the name of Jesus the Christ and walking in his ‘presence’ will save you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charles_m_nde.html