{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charles_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Charles L NDE 365","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charles L NDE 365  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charles L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1357 Charles L NDE 365  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at the Eighth Army field hospital being treated for malaria in Nha-Trang, South Vietnam. It was our last day of incubation (thirty days) and we were to go back to our units - C Battery Twelfth Marines. We were out in the town when I heard a tremendous roar; I thought to myself that it was in-coming artillery.  But before I could do anything, there was a huge explosion and then flames.  I was on fire and knocked to the ground by Vietnamese civilians that were in this building.

At this point, I saw little windows pass in front of me.  It was as if I was inside a tiffany lampshade and each little window had an era of my life when I was growing up, it was really weird. Next thing I remember I was being picked up and taken to the hospital there I passed out from the pain. When I woke up, unknown how long I was out, a priest was standing over me giving me last rites!!!! I spoke and told him I am not ready to go yet.

About three days before this incident I had a dream, that a Viet Cong with a flame thrower was chasing me trying to torch me, and then I was burned in the crash, thirty percent burns.

I also had another experience in 1994 when I had a minor heart attack, they gave me medication that lowered my blood pressure too much, I remember coming to and hearing the doctor saying my pulse, '30-34-35-40-44' and so on. Everything was white but no people were around, then I heard him say I was coming back now, he never explained but I think they also lost me from the TPA injection - brought my pressure too low.

Am I being saved for something BIG? Or do I just have a strong will to survive?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8/06/65

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes       injuries received when a B-57 canberra bomber crashed, i was burned.  Suffering from burns.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was consciousness but alert? I do not really know I remember my skin hanging off my arms and the air force guy picking me up in his step van - there was an awful lot of pain.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Physical pain.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It happened so fast, I was nineteen at the time, images were of me younger.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is hard for people to believe, like they don't really believe it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Never entered my mind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Haven't told many people, they could not understand.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It made me believe that what you dream of or certain feelings that come to you could happen.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charles_l_nde.html