{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charles_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Charles H NDE 3445\/4085","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charles H NDE 3445/4085  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charles H NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1473 Charles H NDE 3445/4084  					  				  			      			  			  				  Experience Description 4084  					</p>  					It was July 20th 1987, first day on the job, it went good all day as we did concert stages, set up, tear down, load up, and move on. It was a hot day. A stage set up for the concert, it went well with Jenny Fricke and Emmie Lou Harris singing for the fraternal order of police fundraiser. The day was over at 8:00 pm. My helper and I tore down the stage and loaded it on the truck. We finished around 11:30 pm that night. The truck was loaded, I was the passenger, and all the lights were out on the field. We had to back up and use the truck lights to scan the area to make sure we got everything. As we were backing up the truck, it stalled. The driver said, 'Man! Chuck crawled under the truck and hit the starter with a hammer.' The truck was a cab over, so you could not raise the hood and be in it at the same time. I did what the driver suggested. I was laying right behind the passenger front tire. As I struck the starter, the first two times nothing happened.

Then on the third hit, the truck starter turned over the truck jumped backwards up onto my left side pinning me to the ground. All of a sudden, I was short on breath, bleeding from my eyes and mouth. I was gagging on blood. The driver comes back and sees that I am hurt. He runs. I heard a loud banging noise. I looked over my head and saw someone maybe thirty to fifty yards away beating a trashcan against a dumpster. I don't know how I got it out, but I yelled, 'Help me please!' A man ran over (I later found out to be a cop). He called to the station for an ambulance. I was behind a police station in a ball field. The officer was in tears saying, 'Hold on fella. Help is coming.' I was in and out of consciousness.

As I heard the sirens, I was gone. I felt my last gasp, and then all the pain was gone. As I was looking down, I heard the man say to the paramedics, 'He's gone.' They went to work on me, chest compressions, breathing into my mouth, no pulse. I was there above them watching. I heard a voice in the light. It said to me, 'It's time.' I said, 'No! Please my babies. I need to raise my babies!' All I could think of was my three babies ages four, three, and two years old at home. The light said, 'If you go back, you won't like it.' I said, 'I have to. Please. My babies need me!' I was watching my body there. All this was happening so fast.

I heard the guy say, 'Up a hundred.' The other turned the knob on the machine. I said, 'Please, my babies!' The light replied, 'So be it!' Boom! That fast, I was screaming in pain back in my body there on the ground. They were telling me, 'Okay, okay, listen. We got a life flight coming. We have to take you out of the field. It can't land here, okay?' They loaded me onto a board and into the ambulance and took me out of the field. Once on the helicopter, they gave me something to ease the pain. It took eleven minutes to fly to Alleghany hospital in Pittsburg. They told me that I would never have made the twenty-five minutes by ambulance. Once we were there, they took me straight into surgery. I awoke nine days later to find out my intestines were torn into, my left lung was collapsed, my stomach lining was torn in many places and I had lost my left kidney.

That's been twenty-two years ago, and let me say the light was right. I don't like it. I got divorced in 2003 when I caught my ex cheating. I have lower back pain all the time. I have had two heart attacks in three years and five stents put in my heart. I also had an angioplasty last month. So when the light speaks, I know from now on to listen because in my heart what I saw then and what I have been through no one but my God was there in that light - I saw others motion for me to come into the light. I have seen before here that had passed family as well as friends.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'july,20th,1987'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'ran over by 5 ton truck, total death occurred.'  I was ran over by a five ton truck and crushed under the front tire.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When watching the thing going on at the light, and looking down at my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     As if time was fast, so this all could take place.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was more clear, crisp, more real than real I guess is a way to state it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clearer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Leading to the light tubular area.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The figure in the light that I say was God.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The voice came from the light it had a form as though it were what we see as God's form.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the light,i was at all there

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       As I looked at what was to be my old body, it was as if it lived no more - but it was me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     That if I returned I would not like it.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     They're still happening a hundred percent so far accurate, some I don't want to happen, but don't know how to stop them.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More crisp in my belief.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More crisp in my belief.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knowledge of things going on now in the news and other events yet to come.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Divorced and I keep people more distant. I used to hang to for fear of them being hurt.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was hard to tell anyone for years later for fear they would laugh.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The war issues, north Korea issues.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Like I stated all this has been so different and sometimes I feel I am suffering for not going, sometimes this can be scary.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Still feel it today as if it was yesterday, or yet, today.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As before, it's happening daily in front of me, on TV in the newspapers.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just scary sometime, don't know if I want to lose the insight of what I have now though.    


				  					Experience Description 3445  					</p>  					I left my body shortly after it happened; I hung above for a brief while watching them work on me, not feeling any fear or sadness, just watching. Then I could see a light, in the light I traveled towards a figure. I never got a clear look at the figure, but I heard a voice it said, 'Are you ready? If you come forward, you can't go back,' although it happened so fast, I know I was in no rush to answer. I looked back and could still see myself lying there, it said to me, 'If you go back you won't like what is going to happen, but I need you there. What I have planned for you has not begun yet.'

As if it read my mind, boom, I was back in my body, in pain hurting, gasping for air, paramedics all around me, working to stabilize my body. Then life-flight to Pittsburg, Allegany General, I remember going into surgery. I awoke eight days later, came home two more days later, and then my life started changing. So weird from this point, please understand, this is so different from who I was before this. I got a very large settlement from the accident. I helped people in every way I could, my family, friends, strangers, you name it, lace up for kids, and I just never stopped giving.

Then my family fell apart. This is where I figure the, 'You won't like what happens,' started. First, I caught my wife having an affair, okay, marriage over, divorce. I'm okay with that. Then all hell breaks loose. My luck has never been this bad in my life. But here's the kicker: I'm so happy, if I meet someone and they're going to kill themselves, with so little effort from me they're no longer feeling that way. If they're going to lose their car I seem to have the answer to fix it, I can't explain this. I only know I feel that I now am serving my purpose. 

I have had women in my life and man they were eaten up with problems. Then when it's over between us, I look back and all the problems they had, I fixed and then was gone. It's like I meet these people or am sent to them in some way to fix what I can then it's time for me to move on to where I am needed next. Here's a kicker also: sometimes I know months in advance where I will be in a month or two, not who I will be with but, the town or the looks of the person I will be with. Weird huh

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  8-24-87

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentSurgery-related  'FIRST DAY ON JOB,TRUCK STALLED OUT,FELLOW WORKER TRYED TO START TRUCK WHILE I WAS LYING BEHIND FRONT TIRE,TRUCK JUMPED BACKWARDS UP ON TOP MY STOMACH...'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) RAN OVER BY 5 TON TRUCK....  Well, I was bleeding from all parts of the body - eyes, nose, mouth, ears, I lost my left kidney as a result, I had my left lung collapsed, lines from my intestines severed, stomach lining torn.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Pretty much all the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Pretty much all the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was all like a dream.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All of this, this is what I mean by crisp.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was different; I want to phrase it as knowing what you were hearing was certain even if you did not see movement producing it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a total tube of light, I saw no floor or walls or ceiling, only light totally around me and I was moving through it as though it was a tube or tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a form, that appeared to be of a male figure.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     WHERE I WAS FIT THIS,THIS WAS A DIMENSION OF BEAUTIFUL LIGHT...

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Totally relaxed, unafraid, so, so comfortable.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My life was around me it was in the light, like smoke, I could see it but was not drawn to it as I was the figure.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was told I would not like what was about to happen.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Much stronger.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I HAVE A GREATER BELIEF NOW THEN EVER BEFORE.....

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Much stronger.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Divorce.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Still to this day it is, because when you start to touch upon the subject others stop paying attention, as if they are afraid to go there.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Ability to help others, as if giving a gift.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Scared - my ex-wife.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     All of it was and it is my life now.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Please find out all you can about this, I know there are others who have been given gifts they are afraid to use, as I was.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charles_h_nde.html