{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charles_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Charles G NDE 7493","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charles G NDE 7493  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charles G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3826 Charles G NDE 7493  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was December 31, 1983 on New Year’s Eve. I was with two of my best friends celebrating at one of their homes to ring in the New Year. We were down in the basement, complete with full bar and pool table. To our delight, the bar was fully stocked with a variety of liquor to satisfy a couple of curious young adults out to have a fun-filled evening.  My friend's parents were out of the house, so we were free to indulge to our heart’s content. This was my first experimentation with alcohol and in no time at all, I was completely ‘wasted’ as they say. As it was time to call it a night, one friend had left a bit earlier on foot and ‘sober’ as far as I was concerned. My remaining friend declared that I was much too drunk to leave on my own and declared that he was the more sober of the two of us. So, it was decided that he would drive me home. I was in no shape to argue whether he was or wasn't fit to drive.  Off we went! 

As we headed down the street our vehicle had struck a parked car and I was thrown slightly forward, not wearing a seat belt. I simply uttered, ‘Hey, watch where you’re driving.’ I didn't live that far from my friend's house, so I figured he would get me home, both safe and sound, in no time. The car proceeded to hit any car that was parked in close proximity and swerving around the block. We were approaching a stop sign but he never found the brakes. The car struck the stop sign with great force. My friend's foot seemed to be glued to the accelerator and the car kept racing up and down the pole of the sign. I was being tossed around the front seat of the car like a rag-doll. 

It felt like I was caught up in some kind of vortex just ‘spinning.’  Next thing I knew, my mind was ‘floating’ in space.  I was above a car wreck looking down at a policewoman trying to communicate with me. I said aloud to myself, ‘What kind of dream is this’? ‘This can't be happening. I'm on some weird trip.’ I was amazed at how patient and caring the officer was to the drunken passenger in the car. ‘Boy, she is really being nice to him’, I thought. 

Next thing I knew, I was surrounded in darkness, perhaps in a tunnel.  I don't really know. There was a very loud disturbing, buzzing sound, like a train or something that I couldn't really make it out to be. I attempted to cover my ears but I wasn't really aware of my body or anything of substance. I started walking through this tunnel but I was not alone. Someone was walking with me and took my hand.  I guess I still have a body of some sorts.   I looked up to see the visage of whom I was walking with. ‘Wow, oh my God, wow, what am I looking at?’ It was a rather tall being of some sort. A fluorescent light bulb best describes the countenance of what I was gazing upon. He had the deepest set of sea-blue eyes that I have ever seen and was dressed in a white robe with a blue sash running across the body. This magnificent being appeared to be male with a long braided ponytail, tied with a blue ribbon bow at its end. I felt shame while once again viewing the car accident scene where I was repeatedly telling the officer that I wasn't drunk!  I held my head down and was having a telepathic conversation with the being. I was drunk and I felt great remorse. The interesting thing is that I was the judge and jury here. All I felt from this ‘angel’ was complete love and an indescribable bliss. 

As we continued to walk through the tunnel, my sense of awareness was like never before. I felt some sort of imprint in the palm of this being. I turned the hand over and saw a hole. I felt overwhelming compassion and love to the point that I felt as if I was going to combust. The being said, ‘This is what they did to me.’ I was like, ‘Why, oh why? How could this happen to such as you?’   I looked up to see the face of him once again. Much to my surprise, I was no longer looking at the beautiful celestial being that was walking with me hand in hand. His face now was more olive in complexion, with a very dark tan. His eyes were a deep dark brown, but there was a mesmerizing sparkle in his eyes that blazed of fire. He said to me that there were evil people in the world. I stood behind him and his robe dropped midway to his back where I saw more scars. 

All of a sudden, the scenery changed and we were in a beautiful vibrant garden of multicolored flowers. He smiled and laughed, as I was like a child rolling in the grass for the first time. Then it was back to darkness again. He stood there and raised his hands. Bright, blinding light was filling the tunnel. I looked towards the light and saw another being on a chariot riding up in the clouds.  

Next thing I knew, I was in the back seat of a car in front of my home. I got out and attempted to walk up the steps but fell into a snowdrift. Eventually, I came to and made it into my house. My bedroom was upstairs. I fell going up the stairs but felt no pain. I fell on top of my bed and was out like a light. The next day my friend walked over to see me. He said that his car wasn't drive-able. He said that he had been in the hospital with a concussion. I told him that, ‘I know; I saw the ambulance take you there.’ I said, ‘I had the weirdest dream where a nice policewoman was helping me.’ My friend looked at me strangely and said, ‘That was no dream! That was officer B who happens to be friends with my parents. She drove you home, not me.’ 

I was dumbfounded. I asked my friend if anything strange had happened to him and he said, ‘No, why?’ I told him that I saw everything that had happened. I was a witness to the accident. I didn't feel a thing but I saw it from a few feet above the ground in great detail. I wasn't taken to the hospital but I saw him being taken there. I went on to give more details and he could only say, ‘How could you have known that?’

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/31/83

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Car accident, multiple collisions, possible head trauma

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The facts have been checked out. I heard the ambulance, street noises, and hospital staff attending to my friend, although I was never taken to hospital. I received healing from the ‘light’ and hand of Christ. I clearly left my body and existed outside it.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was very in tuned with my surroundings. I could communicate telepathically. Also I was clairsentient.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Walking through the tunnel

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Incredibly fast

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was ten-fold in comparison to everyday.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    ‘Bionic’ hearing ability

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my grandmother from a distance.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   You can’t describe the incredible beams of light and energy.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Compassion, Love, Joy, Peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     God definitely exists.  I came to know Jesus Christ. I believe in angels. I believe there is a continuation of life and our personalities are intact. There is no judgment from God. God’s love is eternal. Our lessons in life are temporal.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   Spiritualism

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I thought I would be judged for my drunken behavior or "sin". I was my own judge. I had to forgive "self". Only love and acceptance is what I found on the otherside.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in the laws of attraction and karma. There is no death!

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I actually saw them. The beings are not of flesh and bones like mankind/humans. They illuminate light and energy. I saw Jesus and an Angel or Ascended Master.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I saw Jesus and an Angel or Ascended Master

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was aware that there were many different beings with purposes in the universe but I was not allowed to communicate or receive messages from them.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     To have compassion and to love.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt that a spiritual warfare was to take place.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Since my NDE, I have been able to astral travel, visitations from deceased loved ones. visit other dimensions and beings.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     life will be filled with many challenges. People will hurt you because they dont experience love.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     love cant be measured but it is without conditions.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life. I am much kinder to myself and towards others.     Large changes in my life. I am much kinder to myself and towards others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am much kinder to myself and towards others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No words can do justice to describe what I saw, heard, and felt.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can have an OBE that is not a NDE.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Walking with my angel. Touching Jesus and observing his sense of humor. The love that I felt. The joy in knowing that I will one-day return to the other side, where there is love in abundance. No more fears or worries, peace for eternity.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've told a few. Some religious sects find it to be of the devil. Others were inspired and hopeful.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that I wasn't dreaming and that something uniquely special had happened to me. I was given a special gift to always treasure and look to, in times of sorrow.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know that life here on earth is temporary. An incredible world, that is our true home, awaits and it is nothing but love there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I found myself homesick for the other side and became suicidal. I had another OBE and was told that I had more to accomplish and that I had more to live for and not to give up and live life to the very end.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I thought I would be judged for my drunken behavior or ‘sin’. I was my own judge. I had to forgive ‘self’. Only love and acceptance is what I found on the other side.  I was aware that there were many different beings with purposes in the universe but I was not allowed to communicate or receive messages from them.  I felt that a spiritual warfare was to take place. Since my NDE, I have been able to astral travel, visitations from deceased loved ones. Visit other dimensions and beings.  Life will be filled with many challenges. People will hurt you because they don’t experience love.  Love can’t be measured but it is without conditions.  It was like watching a projection movie and I have a copy of the film to play and re-play. I wanted to stay there forever and not comeback.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charles_g_nde.html