{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charlene_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Charlene P NDE 3434","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charlene P NDE 3434  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charlene P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1416 Charlene P NDE 3434  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Right before the experience, I was rushed to the intensive care unit. I had a collapsed lung, and was severely septic and dehydrated; this was six days after the original surgery. I was in the intensive care unit, and I could feel myself slipping from consciousness. I recall there were at least six people standing around me. The next thing I recall is that I was above myself watching them work on me. I recall feeling so at peace.

My direction was quickly drawn away from what they were doing to my body, to a longing feeling and a light. It was so overwhelming and I felt this love that I remembered but never felt here. I was drawn toward it, feeling so much love and acceptance. It was bright, but it did not hurt. I felt I was actually part of it. I knew whatever I wanted to know, although I cannot remember it now. I seen others there that I knew and knew me, but I do not know how I knew them or they knew me. I was told by telepathy that I am done here if I want to be done here or I could return. It seemed like I was there for days and days, like in some sort of 'holding room'. The feeling I got was that they were waiting for my decision. When I told them my decision, it seemed to take days and days again. Something that kept coming to mind was something of a 're-write', I am not sure what that is. As soon as I said I wanted to return to be here for the ascension (this is one thing that I didn't forget - out of everything - it was this), all the beings present seemed to be so exuberant. I was told that at first return, I would struggle and it would be difficult, but as I progressed, it would become easier. I wasn't sure what was meant by that, but I am beginning to see the picture now. I was told many things of which only a few I still recall but cannot share. On my return, I felt lost and alone and unloved.

That day I awoke from my coma, on life support with my family in tears of joy around me. I also saw what appeared to be the people from the 'holding room' and what looked like angelic beings (the very tall longhaired people that I could not tell if they were male or female). I sometimes feel that glimpse of eternal love and light when I am depressed with life. I regretted coming back for a while (about two years) and constantly felt that I was going to die again. I don't fear death; I actually look forward to it again. I am glad that I am never alone, although at times I feel that way. I know they are there watching me and cheering me on. I take great comfort in knowing that. In my life now, I feel so different than I did before. I feel like an alien here, and the mentality of most people hurts me. I feel this twinge on the inside; I just wish others knew what it feels like to not belong to this world but to be living in it. It is hard to explain in words, I guess you just have to have been through it to know.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'July 1, 2002'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessSurgery-related  I had one before on a near-drowning at age 10.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had surgery for an acute appendicitis, after surgery I went into septic shock and a lung collapsed. I went into a coma and was on life support for a few weeks. I was pronounced clinically dead more than twice during the three week coma. I was given a five percent chance of survival.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the 'Holding Room', I felt I was my most alert, I had a serious soul decision to make, and I had to be.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Felt past, present, and future were all one.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed more vivid and I could see in all directions at once if I wanted to. Everything was clear and I didn't need my glasses to have it so.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing with sound. It, to me, was all a telepathic sort of conveyance of thought.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I just felt after I felt a longing feeling or a calling of sorts, I was just in the light - no tunnel or enclosure. Even in the 'holding room' it wasn't an actual room but a place - no walls or anything like that.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were others that appeared human, and others that were human like, and still others that were light beings. The ones I felt were angelic were the tall ones with longhair; I could not tell if they were male or female, maybe neither. The light beings were brilliant rainbows, I felt very joyful in their presence, and then there were the human ones, but were very bright like the light itself.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright, soft, pleasant - not uncomfortable or anything. Not hot or cold. No physical feelings associated with it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I seen a lot.  But, the most I remember is being "held", guess they didn't want me to see too much... might have changed my final decision.  It was for the greater good.  I know.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Acceptance, Knowing, Unknowing, Oneness, Belonging, Joy, I think at a few points I felt every emotion known to man.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I will not discuss in detail my life review. But, I will say that I have a forgiving feeling of myself and my decisions. I have a forgiving feeling towards anyone in my life that I had previously held contempt for. I do not anger easily now, like in the past. I understand life lessons I have had, and why others treated me the way they did. I understand my decisions I made and how it was needed to affect others, we are in this together. Your enemy is your friend.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I will not comment on future events other than to say that they were right, it was very difficult on my return and it is getting easier.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I was in the 'holding room' - that would be a boundary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I was a practicing Catholic before the event.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't practice one particular religion. I believe they all have a place for different spiritual paths. I choose to be non-religious, but I step in spiritual light.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'I have no religious preference, I am spiritually centered.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't practice one particular religion. I believe they all have a place for different spiritual paths. I choose to be non-religious, but I step in spiritual light.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I cannot comment on what I know. I don't know why, I just know I can't and I won't.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have more patience and understanding. I don't view the 'bad' things as bad, and the 'good' things as good. They just are because they need to be. I have had marital issues, because I have changed and find importance in other things than my spouse. It isn't bad; it is just different. It is no one's fault we are not connecting on a spiritual level, which has now become of great importance to me, he has given me space to be me, which is helping tremendously.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I cannot explain feelings of such strong emotional worth in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I had a NDE when I was ten. So, I have had psychic breakthroughs ever since. I am more highly focused as an empath, or as I like to call it clairsentient.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I felt so loved and accepted. And, I was also surprised at the exuberance they showed me on my decision to return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I was able to talk, they had to remove the ventilator and I had to learn to reuse my tongue to speak. I was diagnosed with an ABI (acquired brain injury) from lack of oxygen (hypoxia). The reactions I got was - okay it is all the drugs taking effect on you. It seems that once I have come to grips with the way I have changed, it appears that more want to adopt my philosophies on life - those of peace, love, and acceptance.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I still feel them with me, I know it was real. I sometimes go there in my sleep. I need to feel their support and love, because I need that to make it through these dark days on earth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same reason as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The doctors said I would never be the same again. Well, not spiritually, I am not, but physically I have overcome many obstacles. I went back to school and I have a 4.0 average after three semesters at college. I went back to become a registered nurse, I have this overwhelming need to heal people, spiritually, physically, etc., etc. I can lay my hands on people to heal them. It happens more often than not, sometimes people need to be ill (that is hard to explain, but we all die from something) - we weren't meant to live forever in the physical.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not at this time.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charlene_p_nde.html