{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1charlene_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Charlene K NDE 983","mylang":"de"}
          	        Charlene K NDE 983  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Charlene K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						427  Charlene K NDE  983  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My older sister and I, she was five at the time, were playing in the barn with our pet goat, when we spotted the old fridge, that my uncle had asked my dad if he could store it there. So being kids, we climbed in, and the little goat, kept shutting the door on us. My sister said we could keep opening the door if we kick it hard with our feet, but the last time we tried the door would not come open.  So we started to cry, and it seemed so long that we had been there. My sister and I got real quiet.  It seemed like I was going to sleep. I couldn't hear my sister any more.  Then as I felt like I was going to go to sleep, I saw a light, like a light from a candle. Then there was a lady there, she put her finger to her lips and said, 'Shhh child it will be alright.' She had long brown hair and soft eyes.  When I started to cry she said, 'No, you must be still, your mommy is coming.'  Just about that time the door opened, I knew it was opened because I could feel a cool wind on my face. Then that is all I could remember until the next day, when I woke to see my dad sitting on the side of the bed, he was crying.


Years later, my mom told me she had been at the sink giving my younger sister a bath, when she realized she couldn't hear Joyce and me.  So she laid the baby down to go find us. She thought we had went to the old tree house to play, but as she passed the barn she said her heart jumped and she heard a women say, 'Hurry.'  Mom said, 'OH GOD No!'  She ran back to the barn and jerked open the old fridge door, there we were. Then she put both of us in cold water.  When she seen that we were breathing okay, she put us to bed, and watched over us till my dad came home. He made sure the fridge was gone that night. She said we were both wet from sweat and that we were hardly breathing, and we were so dark in color.


I still think of that lady.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    July, 1957

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     locked in old fridge, with my sister, could not breath   locked in an old fridge in the barnLocked in a fridge and couldn't breathe.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I could still feel my sister beside me but I could hear her.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt like I was just going to sleep.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just 'shhh', and her saying to stop crying and that my mommy was coming.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The lady that was with us.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   A soft light, like one from a candle.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Being locked in there, not being able to breath and the joy of that door opening.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My sister never really wants to talk about it, and when I tell other people, some cry others just say how sad or how terrible.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Someone is always with us.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1charlene_k_nde.html