{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chari_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Chari H NDE 3819","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chari H NDE 3819  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chari H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1794 Chari H NDE 3819  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I awoke, I found myself in a dark area where I could see other beings walking around. They were either walking towards a bright orange burning light at the end of a long tunnel or they were wandering about. The light seemed dark to me, as did the other beings so I didn't want to be around them or the light.

About then, a light from above expanded above me. It filled the sky with a mass of bright colors. I felt a tugging sensation in my chest as the light started bringing me towards it. I felt Great Love coming from within the light. As I grew closer towards the light, I could see two figures coming towards me. I recognized them as my Great Grandfather who had passed away a few years earlier and my little brother who died at age two. My Great Grandfather was standing there holding my little brother's hand. They were very happy to see me, but I wasn't happy to see them. That's when I realized that I was dead. I became very upset. He could read my thoughts and his thoughts entered my thoughts. We communicated back and forth telepathically. As soon as I had a thought, he had an answer for me.

I wanted to live so I began to beg Jesus and God for my life back, if they were listening to me, but I wasn't sure if they would grant me life. I also knew that I was close to Heaven. I really didn't want to be there. I wanted my life back on earth. My Great Grandfather became very upset and told me what my future would be like if I returned. It wasn't pretty. He told me about my life and he said that the earth was going to move towards a mass extermination of life. He told me that if I went back, I would face that fate because of my decisions. He said my whole family was going to face it and there was nothing I could do to save them. But my urgency to return to them to save them and to give them this message was very strong. I kept on begging to live regardless of what he was telling me. That's when I happened to look down at the earth.

I saw my body lying in the creek. I saw my friend's lifeless body a few feet above me. I then saw the car in the trees. I saw people around me and then I saw a couple of ambulances and fire trucks. I could tell that the people were discussing something about me. They were standing above my body.

I then looked at my Great Grandfather again and told him that I was going back. He became extremely upset and said, 'The next time you come out of the earth, it won't be as easy. Your life won't get any better if you go back. In fact, it's going to get much, much worse. You're going to make very bad decisions and you're going to suffer great pain from those decisions. Don't go back. Please come with us now. Please.' Even after he told me that, my will to live was stronger. The pulling sensation then left me and I freely fell or soared back to the earth and towards my body.

Upon entering my body, I felt a cold blast of a substance that felt like a spongy soft substance. It felt really strange but I opened my eyes immediately and found myself back in my body. Two paramedics were on each side of me. One yelled out, 'We got her!' I immediately looked up to my right and saw my friend's lifeless body lying there. I screamed out for her, but I knew she was gone. I tried to stand up to get to her, but I realized that I now couldn't feel my legs. The paramedics flipped out and laid me back down saying, 'Don't move like that again honey. You have to be very still and let us take care of you. Your body is in very bad shape and we don't want to lose you again.' I remember thinking that I just couldn't believe everything was just as I had seen it from above. I knew that I had absolutely died and came back. When I realized that my friend was really dead, I began to regret coming back. I then looked up at the car and saw my boyfriend's face looking back at me. His face was pale and his eyes were wide and streaked with tears. He looked like he was in shock and had been crying. Just then, I lost my vision. I spent the next six weeks in the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'September 13, 1980'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was involved in a one car accident where the vehicle I was riding in went airborne. I fell out as the car as it landed in the top of a thicket of trees. I fell twenty some feet down into a watery creek bed. I had dreamed about wrecking in this very area when I was ten. When I knew I was going to crash in this very area, I went into shock and I passed out. The injuries I had were a head concussion with several small lacerations to my forehead, a broken pelvis, and a fractured right leg with ten fractures to the lower bones. A badly bruised left knee and left arm.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment I had my experience. I knew I was outside of the earth. I knew I was dead. I could even smell, hear, see, and feel. I sensed my surroundings immediately.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything seemed to be in a suspended type of animation or life. Life was definitely slower and absolutely not as fast paced as life on earth but circumstances around me were going at a fast pace. Mostly in regards to my transition.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see things from a much greater distance and the clarity of everything seemed more intense. Even colors were brighter.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was instantly in a tunnel, but I didn't seek the light at the end of it. That was very evil to me.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw souls wandering about and souls walking towards the light at the end of tunnel.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a light from the end of the tunnel and then a bigger light expanded over me.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw a beautiful Heaven that stretched the whole Universe outside of the Earth. I realized that the two realms were very close. Life and Death that is.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great highs and lows. All emotions were there and much more intense.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw my family when I was really little. I saw my life leading up to the accident. I learned that my life wasn't going to get any better. To explain that, I would have to go into my childhood which I won't do.  The only thing that gives me peace is knowing that there is absolutely LIFE AFTER DEATH! I don't fear death! I tell everyone not to fear death because Death is NOT the end of You!

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My life wasn't good before my experience and it did get worse as predicted by my Great Grandfather. Every emotion he stressed to me, I understood why!

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was on the outside of a boundary between Heaven and Earth. I knew if I went to Heaven, I would definitely lose my life on Earth.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Doubted Religion Period!

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I used to debate that God and Satan even existed. I thought it was all a big lie. Then I died. I woke up real fast! I knew that God and Satan were very real!

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I believe in God and Jesus Christ but I don't belong to a church or any religious group. I prefer not to push my belief on people.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I used to debate that God and Satan even existed. I thought it was all a big lie. Then I died. I woke up real fast! I knew that God and Satan were very real!

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I could definitely sense good and evil! Call it Heaven and Hell.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't like to be around people who refuse to accept that God is real and his son Jesus Christ is our Savior. I can't stand to be around people who talk about false religions or false prophecy.  I used to accept people no matter what they believed. But now whenever anyone bashes Jesus Christ, I dismiss them as being ignorant and I don't want anything to do with them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was young and didn't fully understand what was happening to me. The intensity of the message I received from my Great Grandfather about the future scared me. He warned me about returning to the earth and told me where the earth was going. He begged me to come with him and not to return. But I wanted to live. I begged Jesus for my life back. My Great Grandfather expressed to me that the next time I was to come out of the earth, it wouldn't be as easy. He also told me that my life wouldn't be that great if I returned, but my belief was that I needed to save my family from the coming events. I felt like they (my family on earth) needed to be warned about these events. I had to make sure they knew. I felt an urgency to come back to save them. I was allowed to come back. Imagine coming back and having that inside of me. How could you explain that?

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm very aware of Evil! I can telepathically communicate messages to others but I don't like to. I did this numerous times with my husband. I sent him messages and he got them. I sent a message to a vampire wannabe and he heard me. That was very scary and it taught me not to mess with people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know without a doubt that the path of Life on Earth is heading towards an end. There is going to be an end to life, as we know it in my lifetime - A not so distant future. I'm very aware of how evil the world has become. I see it and sense it everywhere. Satan and God exist!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was fourteen when it happened, but I only shared it with my Grandfather and a Hospital Psychologist. He was an evil guy and he put me on high doses of valium the whole time I was in the hospital. He was evil because he did something very bad to me - not going into that, but that's why I say that he was evil.  It took me a long time to share my Near Death after that.  I think I was seventeen the first time I actually told someone else about it. I told a real good girlfriend of mine. She actually threw up. But she knew that I was telling the truth.  I also shared it with my husband's aunt when I was twenty-eight. I changed her life completely around and she became very religious. She died a year later from Leukemia. I also shared it with my dad around the same time and a year later, he became very religious. A year after that, he died from a massive stroke.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it right after it happened. I just chose to keep it to myself. I didn't want to be labeled.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't have to explain it. I know it happened. I know life is ongoing. Life never dies!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       IT WAS REAL! I don't care what Doctors or Scientists think. Science is not PERFECT and IT'S NOT one hundred percent accurate. You can do all the tests you want on people but you won't get the same result unless that person dies! Yah, 'Flat Liners' was a good movie, but that's CRAZY!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       This was long enough.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chari_h_nde.html