{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chantal_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Chantal T NDE 4031","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chantal T NDE 4031  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chantal T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1940 Chantal T NDE 4031  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I shall try and describe the most moving experience in all my life, although words are limited or do not exist in such a case and are thus very difficult to select.

What happened on April 12, 2008, I don't know. Between 8:00 pm and midnight, I don't remember anything. I just 'woke up' around midnight, my son stood in front of me, he told me that I fell in the stairs, this scared him a lot. I kept repeating to him that I did not fall because I had no memory of it. It seems that I blacked out in the stairs. My son helped me to go to bed, my ear bled but I did not pay attention to it, I fell asleep.

I am going to share my experience, but on some points it differs from the accounts I happened to read before, like those reported by doctors such as Dr Moody.

It was nighttime, I still slept, while sleeping I opened my eyes. My first thought was, 'What's going on?'

Indeed, I was surprised! There was this strange 'whirlpool' facing me, I saw it spinning, but it produced no wind, no noise. It was greater than the walls of my - rather large - bedroom, where I was lying, alone. A weird whirlpool, in all NDE accounts I had heard about a tunnel, I thought it was just a way to shift dimension, to penetrate in what no one really knows yet, the death tunnel, but all are to know it someday. This is the fate of all humans, of all living beings on Earth.

However, what I felt was different from all I thought I understood until then, it was actual reality, well, the one I am living in now was fading out. Everything disappeared, engulfed in this weird whirlpool, which was not doing anything else than making this reality disappear and replacing it by another one. Yet, I did not see anything amidst this dark whirlpool, just part of my bedroom walls showed. This did take place in the bedroom; it did not come from the outside, nothing scary, no negative sensation, on the contrary!

It was the first phase, the most important one, others describe it as a tunnel, but it isn't what I saw or what I felt. I rather felt that this reality was going or fading away to be replaced by another one that I KNEW WELL (?) but which I did not see yet.

This is the most incredible experience, although there were no angels for me, any dead acquaintance to welcome me with a great smile, or see my life review.  There was only the end of something and the beginning of something else.  I knew this was much more beautiful than anything I had ever experienced on earth.  I did not perfectly recall, although now I forgot all I am writing about.

A voice began to talk to me very clearly in my head. It was my voice but it was not me, not on this consciousness plane anyway, an enigma! Maybe as I write this, I am giving arguments to those who don't believe it, but I don't care at all, they'll also know the truth someday, just like the rest of us.

This voice told me: 'Time has come to go.'

Never was the word death communicated, but I knew this was what she was talking about.

During my NDE, my view field was not where it was supposed to be, it was much lower, shifted about one meter away from my position in my bed, moreover I fell asleep on my belly and I know I was still in this position when I 'woke up', so I should not have been able to see behind me. Yet, I saw my cat at the foot of my bed; strangely, she looked at the center of the room and was not scared at all. Placed as I was, I should not have seen anything else than the wardrobe doors in front of my face. I did not feel any pain, on the contrary.

The voice talked to me again.

No judgment, no blame, soothing sweetness, extraordinary tenderness, nothing else. I had the choice to 'go' or to stay, as incredible as it seems, all depended upon my choice, she guided and helped me, that's all! I knew this too, as if I were on another plane of consciousness.

'You did not complete what you had to do yet (this was no blame).'

I knew it. I just answered, 'I did not know it would be so hard.'

Then the voice told me, 'Think to A. (my husband) and to the children.'

I wanted to go to the voice.  It was too hard for me and life was far from being the paradise I had wished.  There were too few joys for so much disappointment.  Despite all the love I felt for my husband and my children, I did not want to go back.  I really longed to join this 'stranger' who had made herself known to me, I wanted to enter this whirlpool, I know where it was to lead me.

Even if I forgot it all again, I knew everything then. I recalled I knew all about the life that expected me even before I was born, I must even say that when she talked about my mission, I knew I had myself decided about my life and I knew the most minute details of it. The voice knew my worries for Earth, men, their madness, their foolishness too, not seeing further than the end of their nose, despite all alert signs that Earth is sending now.

The voice said, 'You shall be helped.'

This comforted me, but it wasn't enough.

She said, 'Truth shall spread, men shall wake up.'

No, I still did not want.

She insisted, 'Planet Earth shall be saved.'

Then I just foolishly began to say the 'Our Father', our father for all and not just Jesus' one, which remains an enigma for me, mainly since I read some best sellers.

I never said yes or no and yet - I am still here!

I felt this incredible, marvelous, inner and outer love, which knew almost all those who experienced this, a love that almost any human cannot experience under normal circumstances!

Then everything stopped.  I had dread, vomiting, awful headaches, unable to stand upright for longer than two minutes, ambulances, emergency room, etc.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  nuit du 12 au 13 avril 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' fracture du crane avec hémoragie cérébrale  Broken skull, brain bleeding, brain concussion.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   All the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew that I should have died, that the 'tunnel' or whirlpool was a passage or more precisely disappearance of this reality. I 'knew' the other reality, the actual one and this made me very happy.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I saw something that looked like a tunnel, some sort of giant whirlpool, dark inside, it seemed to me that my bedroom walls were fading away.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was as if I knew everything, my life before I was born and that I had chosen everything that occurred to me.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have been told about planet Earth's future, but it might take time, anyway this is what decided me to stay, indeed I would have been happy to go.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Je crois qu'il y a beaucoup de choses à comprendre et qui ne sont malheureusement pas étudiées sérieusement. J'ai une vision de dieu personnelle mais qui ne correspond pas vraiment à ce qui est enseigné dans les religions

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was requested to stay but I did not want to, then I have been told (I confess I am worried for planet Earth) that people are going to wake up, that knowledge would grow and that planet Earth would be saved.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I heard my own voice talking to me, but I knew it was not me, this remains an enigma for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared very soon; I don't know whether they believed me but I don't care and I carry on sharing.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Through readings, but my experience did not really look like what I had read.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was lucid; it was both this reality and another one.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I often think about it and it was really marvelous, it removed my fear from death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I believe that there are several universes, one next to the other, and death is just passing from one universe to the other.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I believe I am not the only one who experienced this incredible form of love, but it seemed to come from nowhere.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chantal_t_nde.html