{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chantal_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Chantal L NDE 6428","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chantal L NDE 6428  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chantal L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3155 Chantal L NDE 6428  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On May 15 1991, I felt extreme pain in my abdomen.  Friends took me to the emergency.  The doctor there examined me briefly. He said they would keep me under observation for the night.  He gave me no medication or anything.  He did not even take my blood pressure. The nurse wheeled me into my room where I was alone.  She put the buzzer next to my pillow saying to press it if I needed anything.  I was in a great deal of pain. I felt like I was burning up with a fever or something.  Breathing was increasingly difficult. I reached a point where I became aware that death was near. So, trying to muster all my strength, I was able to press the button but no one came.  

All of a sudden, I felt as if a mountain had collapsed on me. I could no longer move.  I had the sensation of sinking into the mattress. I watched as my lungs deflated. I could not take a breath.  I realized then that I was dying.  I watched as I exhaled my last breath: amazingly, I was not afraid. Then I felt a vibration in my body.  That is when I started feeling that my consciousness was leaving my feet, then my legs and then my trunk.  I wondered what would happen when it got to my head.  My consciousness left my body by the crown of my head. I found myself floating, like in a cloud.  There were no buildings, no structures, just light and love. I was so wonderfully well!  All of my pain and worries just melted away. I was bathed in love. 

All of a sudden, I noticed movement to my left.  It was a light coming towards me. As I looked at it, I noticed that this light was a being, a Being of Light!  As this Being of Light was approaching me, I started experiencing all kinds of images in my mind.  At first, I thought he/she was communicating with me telepathically but then I realized, all these images were memories, my memories.  I was remembering who I really am.  (It was like an amnesiac who regains his/her memory).  I had total recall of who I really was.  I was this old, old being, who had always existed.  I was wise and loving. I remember knowing everything.  Not so much from an intellectual point of view.  I knew what it was like to be a flower, to be an animal, to be an insect.  All the knowledge of the universe was inside my being. I no longer felt as a separate individual.  I felt as if I was part of a collective consciousness.  I sense billions and billions of beings and we were all One.  The feeling of oneness on the other side is amazing! I remember distinctively how we created the solar system.  

I was part of this collective consciousness that had ‘willed’ it into being. I remembered we had done so for the purpose of experiencing mortality.  It was so important to my soul to come to earth and experience mortality.  I then remembered asking to be born.  The moment this memory came to mind, I also remembered having agreed to accomplish a mission.  I came to earth to accomplish a mission.  All of a sudden, I realized that I had not accomplished this mission.  My joy and serenity turned into anguish: I had failed to accomplish this mission.  I never felt so sad. Sad is not the word, I felt anguish, I felt like a failure.  Nothing else I had accomplished while in this life mattered to me, I was a failure. 

The Being of Light, sensing my anguish, asked me, 'Would you like to stay or would you like to go back?’  I immediately replied (with thought, as our communication was by thought).  ’I must go back; I have not accomplished my mission’.  In that moment, I sensed I was going backward into a tunnel and I found myself back in my body. 

The first thing I remember is hearing the words, ‘she is coming back, she is coming back’ uttered by a nurse.  I opened my eyes and could see three nurses and the doctor that I had seen at the emergency. I was hooked to machines.  The doctor came to me, put his hand on my forehead and said, ’Don't worry; we are not going to lose you again.  You are a very sick girl but we will not lose you again.  We will transfer you to a different hospital in another city, and you will remain in intensive care until we find out what is going on’.  ’I won't die, don't worry’ I said. They put me in an ambulance and sent me to the other hospital.  The poor paramedic, in the ambulance, was afraid I would die on her.  She kept checking my vitals.  I assured her that I was not going to die.  It is during the ambulance trip that I realized that I could no longer remember my mission.  I had forgotten!  I came back from a heavenly state to accomplish this mission and I forgot what it is shortly after re-entering my body!  This was a life-transforming event and I thought it was over but I was wrong.  It seems that once the door between both worlds is open, it never closes again.  

I started experiencing all kinds of paranormal activities after this.  It started with my sense of sight: it would change and I could see the matrix of all life.  Then it moved to my sense of hearing: I started hearing a voice.  I was instructed to build a Temple and I was given the vision on how to build it.  In this Temple, I get visions and I am developing very unusual abilities.   I won't go any further here. Suffice to say that my life has been transformed by the NDE experience and by the abilities I have developed as a result of it.

Additional Questions by Dr. Long:

Greetings!

Thanks for sharing your remarkable NDE with www.nderf.org!  There is much about your experience that is astounding, but one thing that I noted was your very clear memory of participating in creating the solar system. Any further details you could share about that would be greatly appreciated! I was just curious how you created it? There are apparently innumerable solar systems in the universe. Were they all created? When was the solar system creation started- after the big bang/formation of the universe? Was there something special that you needed to create about the solar system for it to allow life? Sorry to ask so many questions- don’t feel the need to answer any or all of them if you don’t want to. If we hear from anyone that would like to contact you per your request in your experience, we would be happy to forward their message to you (we don’t give out anyone’s email address to anyone without their advance permission). Thanks again for sharing!

Best regards,

-Jeffrey

Chantal's Answers: Thank you so much for your e-mail.  My apologies for not replying sooner.  The ‘other side’ (for a lack of a better word) is nothing like I expected.  Even though I had always believed in an afterlife, I had not imagined it this way.   The feeling of oneness is outstanding!  I was totally surprised when I ceased to be Chantal and became the one I really am.  I remembered everything about the life of Chantal, but that was like a role I had played in a play.  I was this very old soul who had always existed, older than time itself.  The other surprising thing was the feeling of being part of a ‘collective consciousness’.    

I sensed that everything alive and that had ever lived was part of this consciousness.  It retained the experiences of each being in its collective memory.  This is why I knew everything; the knowledge of this collective became mine.  It is a different kind of knowledge though.  It is not intellectual but experiential.  Furthermore, it was not limited just to human experiences; I ‘knew’ what it felt like to be a flower and to be a stone.  I realized that life and consciousness are synonymous and that inanimate objects also have consciousness.  They are made of atoms and particles just like humans are.  The memory of participating in the creation of the solar system was definitely the most unexpected!  It sounds like a sacrilege just to mention it.  And yet, the collective consciousness that I was part of willed it into being.  

I am sorry I cannot tell you exactly how we did it.  I remember that it was our collective will and focus that brought it into being.  Matter simply formed at our command (one minute it was energy and the next it was matter).  It formed in the shape that we willed it to be.  I remember how important equilibrium was.  Every particle had to be in perfect balance and harmony with the rest.  All of the planets had to be in equilibrium with the sun and each other.  There was great joy among us, for this creation had a purpose of the highest importance.  It would allow us to experience mortality.  I cannot tell you if every solar system in the universe was created the same way.  I cannot comment about the big bang theory.  All I know is that this solar system was created by a collective consciousness and this for a purpose of great importance.  Each being of this collective consciousness asked to come to this earth to experience life knowing that each experience would benefit the collective.  We each agreed to accomplish a certain mission.  

I often wondered, after my NDE, what percentages of people do accomplish their mission.  Are those who have not yet accomplished it, always given the choice to come back?  I experienced such anguish when I realized I had failed to accomplish my mission.  I did not hesitate one second to come back when given the choice to do so.  I knew I was going back to a sick body and an unhappy life and yet, that did not matter to my soul, I had to come back to accomplish my mission.  

I forgot what my mission is upon re-entering my body.  It is like a veil of forgetfulness that closes again.  It drove me crazy.  How could I forget my mission when I remembered so clearly other aspects of my NDE such as participating in the creation of the solar system?  I sought the help of a hypnotherapist to help me remember.  He believed in NDE and had attempted to regress other NDErs without any success.  He told me he doubted it would work.  He asked me this question: ‘Have you ever considered that you are not supposed to remember?’   I must say that that thought had never crossed my mind.   It made sense.  There had to be a reason for me to forget.  Instead of acquiring an intellectual knowing of my mission maybe, I was to attempt to gain an experiential knowing:  to feel it in my guts.  Money being very tight then I decided not to undergo hypnosis. I could talk for hours about the journey I have been on since my NDE, about the paranormal things that started occurring afterwards but this will suffice.  I am sorry I cannot tell you more about the creation of the solar system. Maybe under hypnosis, I would remember more.  I never paid much attention to these abilities until now.   Actually, at the beginning, I tried to repress them.  But I feel very strongly now that I need to make contact with others like me.  Thank you for taking our accounts seriously and for providing us with an opportunity to share our accounts with each other and with others.   This may very well be part of your mission. 

Thank you

Chantal     

More Answers from Chantal:

Thank you so very, very much for answering my questions!  I know that you are a very busy man and you taking the time to answer my questions means a lot to me. Thank you!  If you don't mind I have just a few more questions (By the way, thank you for letting me know that you wrote a book compiling your findings.  I can hardly wait to read it) I did figure you must have had some type of experience.  Yes, you can quote anything I have said on your website.  If it can help someone else please use it.   I am so glad to know that forgetting one's mission is normal/common with NDErs.  You have no idea what this piece of info means to me!  At first, I kept thinking that if only I would try harder I would remember, then work/life got busy and I seemed to lose the connection with the other side. 

Right after my NDE I was in a state of high vibration. I felt like my feet were not touching the ground. I slowly started going back to my normal state of consciousness after about one month.  

I don't remember the specifics about the creation of the solar system, just that it was ‘created’ and willed into being by us, the collective consciousness.  My NDE occurred 21 years ago and events are not as fresh in my memory as they used to be.  One important detail I remembered this morning was that the Being of Light was showing me (on something that looks like a giant screen) its creation and as I watched, I remembered having participated in it.  Not sure why I had forgotten this important detail. It was definitely willed into being for allowing us to experience life.   Did it start as a cloud? That I cannot say for sure.  I am trying to remember.  I clearly see the Being of Light to the left of me and the screen in front a bit to the right of me with the pictures of the solar system.  As I watched, I remembered having participated in its creation.   Actually, I stopped thinking in terms of ‘I’ and started thinking in terms of ‘we,’ we the collective consciousness.  We had willed it into being. There was a plan in place.  We would take turns coming down into mortality and experience life in all of its aspects and bring this experience back to the collective.  I really got the sense that there were no good or bad experiences, just experiences.   Yet, we each agreed to accomplish a certain mission.  This mission was going to serve my soul and the collective enormously.   

When trying to explain this collective I usually use the following analogy:  Let's pretend you are the water in a glass of water.  You are contained in a glass.  Then someone pours you, the water in the glass, into the ocean.  You still exist, every particle of you still exists but now you are part of an ocean where there are billions and billions like you.  You are now ‘one’ with the ocean.  You are all One.   On the other side you are a soul, a very old one, magnificent, wise, powerful soul and you are One with a collective.  The sense of unity is amazing.  There is no sense of separation like there is on this side.   

Tell me, have others mentioned this collective consciousness to you?  We probably use different terms to explain it.   You asked about the flower and the stone.  While in that state of total recall, I could tap into, no, that is not the right term, I became ’one’ with all knowledge and all experiences contained in the memory of the collective consciousness. I became aware that it contained non-human experiences as well: such as experiences experienced by flowers and stones.  I did not spend any time investigating their consciousness; I just know that they were contained in the memory of this collective consciousness as well.  As extraordinary as my NDE was, it is really the events that took place after it that I find more significant and that have impacted my life the most.  The NDE was just the beginning.  

The first paranormal event that occurred to me happened about two weeks after the NDE.  I had been staying with friends after I got out of the hospital.  The day they brought me home, I got out of their car and looked at the big tree in front of my house.  All of a sudden, my vision changed and I could see the matrix of life. This is very hard to explain.  I am not sure what I saw was its aura as much as its soul.  It was vibrant with life.   More importantly, I saw that I was connected to this tree by a cord coming out of my solar plexus, a vibrational cord.  When I looked at the grass, this cord connected me to it as well.  Then I looked at the gravel and this cord connected me to it too.  When I say connected to it, I mean vibrationally.  Everything I paid attention to, this cord would connect me to it.  I understood then that we are all connected at the energy level.  Then my vision came back to normal.  

Once home, I mentioned to a few friends about the NDE and the change in my vision.  One of the girls working here for the summer was doing her master's degree in anthropology.  She asked if she could interview me.  I agreed and told her my story of the NDE and the change in my vision.  She told me that a shaman had mentioned this vibrational cord coming out of his solar plexus linking him to all life whenever he is in a trance.  I was so happy to hear that I had not had a hallucination!  

Later I came across books written by the healer Barbara Ann Brannan.  She clearly shows the vibrational cord in her books.  She sees it too.  So yes, we are all connected at the vibrational level. It therefore makes sense to me that the experiences of all that have consciousness are contained in this collective consciousness.  I feel that I have taken enough of your time for now. Thank you so much for being willing to answer my questions.  You have no idea what this means to me!   I will end with one of my favorite quotes, one by Edgar Cayce, ‘Though you may gain the whole world, how little ye must think of thyself if ye lose the purpose for which the soul entered this particular sojourn’   

On the other side, I did not have to account for the good or bad things I had done.  I was loved and cherished no matter what.  I had to account to my own soul for the fact that I had failed to accomplish my mission, I had lost the purpose for which my soul had entered this particular sojourn.   This brought me closer to hell than anything else I had ever experienced in my life.  Words cannot express the anguish I felt for having failed to accomplish the only thing that really mattered.   I am so, so grateful for having been given another chance to accomplish it.     

Best regards,

Chantal

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'May 15, 1991'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) I must say that I am not entirely sure.  It was code blue at the hospital.  I was hooked to machines and surrounded by nurses and doctors.  I had been taken to the hospital with severe abdominal pain.  The emergency doctor examined me and decided to keep me overnight.  Within one hour in the hospital, I went into shock.  I was able to press the alarm button next to me but then I could no longer move.   Turns out a cyst (the size of a grapefruit) inside my pelvic area had ruptured.  It caused me to go into shock. The medical team was able to bring me back to life.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was One with all life and I knew everything. I was part of this immense collective consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was in a state of total recall.  I was One with all life and I knew everything.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time became irrelevant in that state.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Because I went to the other side immediately, this question does not really apply to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I did sense the tunnel when I returned to my body, not before though.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Oh yes!  A magnificent Being of Light.  He emanated not just light but love as well: an amazing amount of love.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     All of my NDE experience occurred in this other world and other state.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Before total recall I felt peaceful, serene, loved.  During total recall I felt powerful but not in a bad way. I felt that I was a creator and could create anything at will.  I felt immensely wise and good.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     In that state of total recall, I became One with all life, part of a collective consciousness and I knew everything.  It was not an intellectual knowledge, like knowledge you acquire from studying facts.  I knew because I had experienced being everything.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     Not in the sense of future events no.  When the paranormal activities started then I had strong premonitions about things that actually occurred later on.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Mormon   I used to be a practicing Mormon but I cannot say that I really believed that the Mormon church was the only true church. I did believe in God and in an afterlife.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not affiliate with any churches.  I go to my own Temple for guidance and inspiration.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   About one month after my NDE, I went back to church.  In Sunday School the priest said:  "As you all know, the Lord sends us trials to test our faith".  I had heard this statement many times over the years but this time was different.  Upon hearing these words I had such a strong reaction.  Hard to explain, my whole being reacted, I knew this statement was totally false.  I was not angry but my spirit became very sad and I could not stay in the presence of such false teachings.  "Is that what they are teaching people?" my spirit seemed to ask. Great sadness came over me.  No one who has ever been to the other side could believe such a thing.    I got up and left and never went back to that church.  I never attended any churches from that moment on.  I have developed my own spirituality based on what I learned from my NDE.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I did believe in God and in an after life.  I used to think that when I get to the other side, I will ask God or angels a lot of questions.  Little did I know that, when you get to the other side, the veil of forgetfulness is removed and you remember everything and know everything.  You don't need to ask questions.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I left my church, I developed my own spirituality. I value all life, even that of insects (I no longer kill flies and spiders, I catch them and release them outside).  Because I know that I came to earth for a purpose, I believe that others have too. I have developed more respect and love for people. I have developed an insatiable thirst for knowledge, how things work.  I am most interested in energy, quantum physics, and the zero point field.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The Being of Light allowed me to have total recall of who I really am.  In his presence, I remembered everything.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     My being always existed.  This life is a just a play I am acting in.  A small part of me has taken physical form.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The Oneness on the other side is amazing!  You become One with all life.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     This collective consciousness that I became part of, is God. Or that is the feeling I got.  It is a state of pure energy and pure love.   Everything is energy on the other side.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   In the state of total recall, I knew the purpose of my incarnation.  I knew my mission and I came back to life to accomplish it.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I came back to this physical life because I had not accomplished my mission.  I feel I have a tremendous mission to accomplish.  This is why I am developing all of these unusual abilities right now.  These are abilities I need to accomplish my mission.  T

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     During my experience I had total recall, I ceased to be Chantal and I remembered who I really am.  A very old and wise and powerful soul.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No     We ask to be born and we enter into a contract.  We come to earth with a purpose.  On the other side, it is all that matters:  did we accomplish that mission or not?  We are not judged by anyone but we feel like a failure if we realise we did not accomplish the mission we incarnated for.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     In the state of total recall, you understand everything. Everything makes sense.  Words like difficulties, challenges and hardships reflect a lack of understanding of the purpose of life.  Those in the know, do not use these words.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love and energy is what the other side is based on.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     When you know you have a purpose in being alive, you live life differently. I am amazed at the guidance that I am receiving. I feel so connected to my divinity. This may sound like blasphemy, but I feel that I have divine powers and abilities. I no longer feel like a victim.  I create my own reality and I can improve it at will.  I can even influence the reality of others.  My sense of power is mixed with a sense of humility.  I feel a sense of responsibility towards my fellowman and towards all living creatures for I have the power to influence things into being.  I feel that I will play a part in what is coming.  Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes It is all a matter of vibrations.  Right after I went through this experience, my vibration was so high, that I could not be exposed to violence or lies.  I was filled with love.  But then the vibrations slow down bit by bit and I started re-integrating into this world.  All of a sudden, I became desensitized to violence again.  I was no longer able recognize truth from falsehood. That was the sad part, losing the connection.  All I am left with are the memories.  Trying to regain that connection requires some work.  I am still not fully there yet but I am confident that it is possible to live in this world without being at its vibrational level.  Everything is vibration.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Still is difficult to express.  How do you explain Oneness to someone? How do you explain that you are really not the person you think you are, that you have a present personality and a permanent personality.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It used to intrigue me as to why I remembered so clearly having been part of the collective that created the solar system.  Why would that one memory be so strong in my mind?  When I was instructed to build a Temple and felt the energy in it, I knew.  When I go in my Temple, I command the Universe;  I say:  "Universe, hear my voice and know that I am the pysical extension of the creator who willed you into being". I say these words with total confidence because I do remember willing the solar system into being. I command the universe and things manifest.  I never use my ability to hurt anyone, just to edify, to relieve suffering and to help.  Women who were not able to conceive find themselves pregnant, people find the right job, they heal mysteriously.  I even released my sick father from this life because I felt it was his time to go. He died (in otherwise excellent health) 3 weeks after I did the manifestation.   Needless to say, I do not advertise these abilities.  I am telling you because I feel guided to do so.  Something is coming and I feel the need to connect with others like me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A-h-h-h, my life has totally changed in that respect since my NDE.  Actually, when these paranormal activities started occurring they scared me.  I felt uneasy about them so I repressed them.  They finally stopped after a while. Seven years after my NDE I started getting sick.  This unknown illness caused me to lose my job, the relationship I was in: I lost everything I had worked for in my life. I was totally depressed, in pain and on disability.  At one point, I started contemplating suicide.  I could not stand the pain anymore. The thought of committing suicide and returning to this heavenly state was very appealing to me but then I suspected I still had not accomplished my mission.  The thought of standing in front of that Being of Light and telling him I had still not accomplished my mission, the sense of anguish I knew I would feel was more than I could accept.  I went on my knees and prayed like I never prayed before.  I told God that I was willing to accept any paranormal gift he saw fit to send me.  That I would not only accept them but also develop them, all I asked was to be healed.   

  That is when I was instructed to build a Temple and was given a vision on how to build it (4 layers a canvas hanging from the ceiling in the basement).  Within days of the vision, the Temple was ready.  I entered the Temple and asked to be guided to a doctor who could diagnose me and treat me.  The next day I received an e-mail from the daughter of a friend telling me about the amazing doctor who treated her.  I went to him; he quickly diagnosed me with Lyme disease and treated me.  I totally recovered and have been symptom free for 8 years.   Then I came across a book providing information on how to manifest and the rest is history.  I go to my Temple and manifest all kinds of things.  They usually manifest within a month.  I would say that about 90% of the things I ask for do manifest.  When things don't manifest I know that what I am asking for is not meant to be.  I sometimes get visions in my Temple.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most meaningful is remembering being part of the collective that created the solar system.  We were so excited to do so! We all wanted to come to earth to experience mortality.  NO matter how difficult it would be. During my experience, I had total recall, I ceased to be Chantal and I remembered who I really am: a very old and wise and powerful soul. This collective consciousness that I became part of is God, or that is the feeling I got.  It is a state of pure energy and pure love. Everything is energy on the other side.  The Oneness on the other side is amazing!  You become One with all life. My being always existed.  This life is a just a play I am acting in.  A small part of me has taken physical form. Love and energy is what the other side is based on.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I spent one week at the hospital and did not tell anyone about the NDE. I spent one week with friends and did not tell them. I did not think they would believe me.  Once home, the paranormal activities started.  I told a few close friends.  I have told many people by now, usually people who have lost a loved one.  I very rarely speak of the abilities I have developed since then.  People would not believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of the term Near Death Experience but did not know much about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never once doubted the experience.  It felt too real to me.  And then, when the paranormal activities started I knew I had not dreamed it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Not sure why I was given the opportunity to go through this experience. I believe it is linked to my mission.  Without it, I would be like everyone else, lost in this world of illusion.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Very interesting question: once I was exhausted and I sat in my chair and totally relaxed.  All of a sudden, I was back on the other side. Long enough to know I was there.  I did not see the Being of Light then.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The experience itself was amazing but what has happened to me since has been unbelievable!  I feel very strongly that I am about to accomplish that mission. In the state of total recall, you understand everything. Everything makes sense.  Words like difficulties, challenges and hardships reflect a lack of understanding of the purpose of life.  Those in the 'know' do not use these words. We ask to be born and we enter into a contract.  We come to earth with a purpose.  On the other side, it is all that matters: did we accomplish that mission or not?  We are not judged by anyone but we feel like a failure if we realize we did not accomplish the mission for which we were incarnated.  I did believe in God and in an afterlife.  I used to think that when I get to the other side, I will ask God or angels a lot of questions. Little did I know that, when you get to the other side, the veil of forgetfulness is removed and you remember everything and know everything.  You don't need to ask questions.  

  It used to intrigue me as to why I remembered so clearly having been part of the collective that created the solar system.  Why would that one memory be so strong in my mind?  When I was instructed to build a Temple and felt the energy in it, I knew.  When I go in my Temple, I command the Universe; I say, 'Universe, hear my voice and know that I am the physical extension of the creator who willed you into being'. I say these words with total confidence because I do remember willing the solar system into being.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None that I can think of.  I purposely did not read any of the accounts on your site.  I did not want them to influence me in any way.  I will now go through them.  Thank you for giving us the opportunity to tell our life-transforming story!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chantal_l_nde.html