{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1chad_nde.html","mytitle":"Chad NDE 3566","mylang":"de"}
          	        Chad NDE 3566  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Chad NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1602 Chad NDE 3566  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Everything seemed to get real quiet and slow, kind of slow motion, almost like I had time to experience all of the feelings sounds and surroundings in less than real time. And it was almost like time was not there. Hard to explain, like one minute of time took one or two hours to take place. After the quiet, almost too quiet, so without sound like a still night - only quieter. I saw the truck in slow motion. The GMC emblem, the busted plastic grill, the chrome but rusted bumper. The windshield of the truck was flat, not like newer rounded windshields, the wipers were mounted from the top not the bottom. Details like that are endless, even now eleven years later. Next, the sound of skidding tires, breaking glass, and the loudest bang or explosion I have ever heard.

I remember calling out the side of the mangled car for help. No one came for what felt like forever. Then in the blink of an eye, the medics were there and my brother was by my side telling me that everything was going to be ok. He even was yelled at because I asked for a cigarette. He lit one and gave it to me, but I had the oxygen mask on. They didn't like that too much.

This is when things get a little weird because that really didn't happen, but I remember it happening like it was real. I blacked out. I don't remember being loaded into the ambulance. I have to go by my brother's account of what happened and when the fire department cut the car apart to get me out. The medic cut the seat belt, which I later found out was acting like a tourniquet. I started to bleed out. I had a right femur fracture; my pelvis was broken in five places. I went into shock and coded twice on the road next to the car.

The next thing I remember, I was in the ambulance. Everything was dark but I could still hear everything. Some things were distant, like the siren. Other things were very clear. Then I could see the inside of the ambulance. In like a three dimensional circle, I saw a person on the cot. I did not realize it was me at that time. I had an automatic blood pressure cuff on my right arm. It kept checking blood pressure. The man yelled, 'He's going down!' I watched the monitor read 67/35 then 54/? And the spo2 read 23%.

Then it got all warm and I realized I was dying. It was me there. All of the horrific pain was gone. I felt better than I had ever felt before like a peaceful deep sleep feels. Disconnected. I felt happy. All of the sound started to get further and further away. The next series of events happened in what felt like about two or three months, but was actually about fifteen minutes. No one came to me, or anything like that, but more like a movie of what I wanted in life. The girl I liked at the time was my wife, which came true two years later. Kind of like if I had complete control of the future, I got to build the perfect life. Then what felt like a ton of bricks fell from the highest building onto my chest like three times in a row about ten seconds apart.

Everyone tells me that I was in an eight day coma but I remember waking up and sitting up in the surgery room where they were stitching me up. I said something I don't remember what that something was, but the doctor didn't say anything. I heard a voice telling me to lie down and relax but there was no one there when I woke up eight days later. All of the warm glow feeling and painless state was gone. I felt the worst I had ever felt ever and at that time mad that I was not in that place anymore. The recovery took almost a year. I still suffer from pain. I feel like I was kept here for the reason of raising my two daughters and helping people through the fire department. This happened like eleven years ago and I can still remember every detail. You are the first person I have told this story to I hope it doesn't sound to over the top, thanks for listening.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  9/3/1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury  'mva hit in driver's door of a 1993 grand marque by a semi   at aprox 55 mph car rolled 3 times into a ditch'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Car wreck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the ambulance watching the monitor.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the ambulance watching the monitor.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     As explained in above story.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    As described in the story above.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Far of dying, then warmth and welcoming.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw my future or what I hoped it would be.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   no real religious back ground

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   no real religious back ground

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have not talked to any one about this in eleven years, not even my wife. The fear of people thinking I'm crazy makes it hard to talk about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Some strange feelings of intuition about things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        As explained in above story.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     As explained in above story.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Not sure.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1chad_nde.html