{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cg_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"CG Possible NDE 2949","mylang":"de"}
          	        CG Possible NDE 2949  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					CG Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1091  CG Possible NDE  2949  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  My husband and I returned from shopping at the food store. All I remember is that we were about to arrive home when a black car hit the side (my side) or our car and spun it around. After this, I clearly remember that I found myself in a place with trees, but I couldn't see the place well except the part closest to me. I began feeling an indescribable peace, but more than that, in that moment I knew nothing of the accident. I didn't even remember my family or anything. I was alone in that place with that peace. I began to see an intense light in front of me, perhaps it was the sun, except it was really intense. I heard the voices of children playing all around me. They were really happy. At that moment I opened my eyes, I was conscious, and saw everything very dark and blurry. I couldn't see people clearly, I only felt that they took me out of the car and laid me down on a stretcher and put me in an ambulance. That was when I began feeling very afraid and scared. Then I realized that 'something was wrong.' I was afraid of dying, but at that time inside the ambulance, I was still unable to see people clearly, everything was dark. Afterwards I don't remember anything. They say I temporarily lost my memory, that I didn't recognize my family or where I was. The loss of memory lasted about five hours.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	March 6, 2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Other No habían personas calificadas aun para determinar muerte clinica. Mas sin embargo ya no respiraba.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   When they were putting me into the ambulance I was alert, I knew something was wrong and that's when I felt a lot of fear.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When they were putting me into the ambulance I was alert, I knew something was wrong and that's when I felt a lot of fear.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I had no sensation nor consciousness of space or time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I opened my eyes I only saw that they took me out of the car. I don't remember any pain or anything. I know that they took me out of the car because my husband told me later on. I only remember that everything was dark, blurry, I didn't know what had happened. Furthermore, I didn't have any awareness of what had happened. I only saw silhouettes. At that point I clearly remember, very clearly as if someone really woke me up, that they were putting me into the ambulance and I had the thought, 'something's wrong.' I watched them close the ambulance door and everything once again went dark, I couldn't see anything, I didn't even know who was with me in the ambulance. I only kept repeating to them not to let me die. A little later my husband told me that he and the paramedic went with me in the ambulance.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sincerely, I don't remember hearing anything. Only when I had the experience of feeling peace did I hear the children laughing, as if they were playing. Afterwards, in the ambulance I only heard them tell me when we were about to arrive. Later, in the hospital, I heard lots of voices at the same time but they didn't make sense.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Like the light of the sun but of greater intensity. I only saw trees around me, nothing more; I only saw the tree tops and an intense light over everything, very brilliant, as if the sun was at maximum brilliance.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Much peace, enormous peace. Everything calm around me.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Creo en Dios, sin denominación'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe much more in God and I know He has everything under His control.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Creo en Dios, sin denominación'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe much more in God and I know He has everything under His control.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only peace and love.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to enjoy my life to the max. I try to be with the people I love more of the time and I try to love them more intensely. One never knows how much time remains.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Well, the sensation of peace, I felt very loved because I was at such peace. Afterwards I found out after my accident that God was with me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Well, during my hospitalization I told my family about it, perhaps three days afterwards, I don't remember exactly. They just listened to me and they told me it was the peace of God, something I also believe.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     During my stay in the hospital and after my husband told me what happened, I know the experience took place. I couldn't breathe, a police officer came up to ask if we were okay, my husband asked him for an ambulance since I couldn't breathe. Afterwards, my husband mentioned that he heard a sigh from me, very strong and that I then began breathing once again but it was inconsistent. At that point the ambulance arrived since the hospital was less than a kilometer away.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it happened, from what I remember and from what people told me, I know that the experience took place. I no longer feel the peace that I felt and I had never felt it before. But I know it happened. I remember it clearly.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I only know that God really exists, that peace can only be given by Him.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Everything was excellent. Each time I went to another question I had confidence to tell of my experience. Thank you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cg_possible_nde.html