{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1celeste_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Celeste Y NDE 2621","mylang":"de"}
          	        Celeste Y NDE 2621  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Celeste Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						854  Celeste Y NDE  2621  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  As I said, I was driving when someone suddenly turned left in front of me and I knew I could not stop my car. I saw that I was going to hit the other car and knew there was going to be a bad accident. Suddenly, I was removed from my body.  I found myself standing on the street corner holding my deceased grandmother's hand and watching myself in the car as the accident happened. I felt no fear or pain, but I was aware that I was in the car that had just crashed. Suddenly my grandmother disappeared and I was put back into my body. It was after I was placed back in my body that I felt the actual pain.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 March 18, 1991  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was driving. When another car suddenly turned left in front of me. I was traveling at forty mph and knew I would not be able to stop my car and would be involved in an accident.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was aware of what was happening to me, but felt no fear or pain. I was completely aware of everything about my surroundings.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was standing with my grandmother and watching myself having the accident.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was able to view things with a surprising clarity. Everything seemed clearer and more visible.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not remember actually hearing any sounds.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my deceased grandmother. She was standing with me on the street corner and holding my hand. She did not say anything, just gave me an overwhelming feeling of peace and comfort. I knew I was safe with her.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A great sense of calm and comfort in being with my grandmother.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I was left with the ability to tell if someone was going to die. It was extremely powerful when I worked in two hotels near a medical center. We frequently had guests who were ill, or had family members that were ill, and I always knew who would live and who would die. I was right one hundred percent of the time. I have since blocked this ability to some extent just because it is sometimes too painful to know the truth.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Roman Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I do not remember at that time, but was returned with a special knowledge and purpose.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more aware of the need to help people and try to share experiences with people to try to make them aware that there is something beyond this world.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As I explained above, I was left with a gift of knowing who would live and who would die if someone was ill.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Finally meeting my grandmother. Being given the gifts I received and being able to use them to help people. Most of all, to know that I was sent back because I had a purpose in life. I know now that my purpose is to help people, something I try to do daily when I answer 911 calls from people needing help.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. They were shocked. There were people that did not believe in an afterlife and do now because of the experience I shared with them.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1celeste_y_nde.html