{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cedric_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Cedric G NDE 3926","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cedric G NDE 3926  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cedric G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1869 Cedric G NDE 3926  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Since my memory being what it is (bad) I am going to tell you what I recall from my own vantage point and also what the others have told me (mother, father, brother, doctors).

The first thing I remember is being strapped down to a hospital bed, my wrists and legs shackled. I fight with all my strength to detach myself but without success.

Then I remember there's a pitcher of water on a little table at the level of my knees. I am dying of thirst but I can't reach the water since I'm still tied down. To my left is the 'chief' but I don't dare ask him for a drink (I don't know why).

Then I remember my father and brother sitting before me, I don't know if I'm still tied down, in short I remember feeling only that I have insulted the nurses in front of my father which I never would have normally done. My brother is making me do some simple mathematical calculations but I am having trouble figuring them out.

I have enormous blue bruises on my wrists and ankles, and where they have put the intravenous needle on my arm is a gigantic blue and yellow bruise at least 20 cm around.

Later they explain (I don't know whom) that I was systematically tearing out the IVs (even though if I had been myself I can assure you that I would never had even thought of doing such a thing).

Slowly but surely I come back to myself, they explained that I've had a cardiac arrest while I was sitting comfortably at my parent's house, the firemen came to take me to the hospital. The doctors induced me into a coma, and then they told my mother that I had an eighty percent chance of not coming back from it. There was no more brain activity; my heart was beating courtesy of a machine. The day they were going to take me off life support was the day I magically woke up. :D

It wasn't until a few days later that I regained consciousness, and I was tied to the bed because apparently I was very violent with the medical personnel while unconscious. (My brother explained that I was telling him they were 'torturing' me and that certainly seems to be a legitimate defense).

Later they announced that I would be transferred to another hospital to take tests.

I had a painful period while I was constantly attached to a machine that took my cardiac readings; I had no freedom of movement. Every morning around 5:00 am, a nurse came to take a liter of blood (at least it seemed that way). Then the 'test' day arrived. At 10:00 am they brought me into a room equipped with a monitor, I was naked under my blue transparent hospital gown, therefore not very comfortable. And one of the two doctors present began to explain what they were going to do to me. I can assure you they told me nothing up to that point, it was the last minute; they were going to insert a tube into my artery (femoral I think something like that). In sum, they made an incision in my groin, inserted the tube and then snaked it up to my heart (I felt the probe travelling through the interior of my body). Once the probe was in place it was going to increase my heart rate to three hundred beats per minute to see if my heart would remain stable at that rate. (Total stress for me.) When my heart rate reach two hundred and eighty beats per minute the doctor turned to me and asked if I was okay. I remember it was precisely at that moment that I felt that I was going to faint. I therefore responded, 'Not really,' and 'let go'.

That's when I climbed slowly towards the ceiling, my vision was tunnel vision, pretty clear in the center and blurry on the sides, I climb for a few seconds, I don't hear anything, I don't feel anything, I understand that I am going up and then am violently pulled back down. That's the only thing I feel for real, the ceiling gets farther away and the descent to the bottom is at an unnatural speed. Once I'm out of that room I regain consciousness, a nurse realizes that my entire body is trembling. The first thing I tell myself is to above all else, not forget what I just experienced. The next day I wake up, I see a red mark on my torso as though someone had place a hot iron there, I realize that they shocked me with that instrument you see in the movies, a defibrillator or something like that, and that's what probably provoked the brutal return to my body.

Then they implanted a cardiac defibrillator, which I have today.

I told this story to a cardiologist who explained that is probably what happened and I never asked again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Mai 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Heart attack    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the experience I seemed to be perfectly lucid and conscious. I can say the experience lasted no longer than five or six seconds. I didn't have any thoughts, no feelings, no exaltation, fear, surprise, not the least little feeling of peace or wellbeing, lol, nothing except the return to the body which I did feel.  P.S.: your question five I can't respond to it, I was perfectly conscious and lucid but not feeling anything and that's not what I would call 'normal'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Tunnel vision, and sharp in the center, fuzzy on the sides.  My memory isn't clear on what I saw but afterwards the lights that I observed were probably the fluorescent lights on the ceiling during this experience I didn't say to myself 'hey I'm going to the ceiling' or 'let me try to look to my left'.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   My vision was tunnel-like but the lights I saw must certainly have been the ceiling lights.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolutely none.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I didn't lose the notion of time, I saw that the experience lasted a few seconds, the violent return into my body corresponding to the moment they shocked me back to life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Two years later I told my mother, then my brother, then my father, then my best friend.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I think in the movies.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The first thing I told myself after the experience was to absolutely not forget it because it was so real especially the violent return to my body and I was afraid that the details of it would be erased right away (I know that my recall has always been mediocre).

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as question above, even if I can't describe exactly what I saw, the return to my body, the swiftness with which it happened, I can never forget.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would really like to relive it to see whether I could go through the ceiling.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cedric_g_nde.html