{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cecily_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Cecily W Probable NDE 9549","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cecily W Probable NDE 9549  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cecily W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5143 Cecily W Probable NDE 9549  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    This experience is one of the main reasons I got sober. It’s also the reason why I know there’s something else out there. Is it God? I don’t know, but I think it’s just our soul energy.  
  
  In 2020, I was living with my fiancé, Jeremy , and both of us were still in active addiction. Although we didn’t really know our neighbor, he knew we did drugs just as we knew he sold them. He pulled up in front of our house one day and asked if we wanted to buy some drugs.  We went to over to his house. What appeared to be a Roxy (oxycodone and something else), was really fentanyl before it became a problem here.
  
  As soon as took it, I knew something wasn’t right. I’ve never done fentanyl in my life up to that point. Last thing I remember, is Jeremy telling me we’re gonna be OK. He was trying to calm me down because I was crying and telling him that something wasn't right.    I was sitting on the edge of the bed with my feet on the floor. He was standing in front of me  between my legs and  hugging me. That’s the last thing both of us remember.

  Next thing I knew, it was just darkness. I had no conscious thought in my mind at all. It’s like I wasn’t there, where my mind wasn’t even forming thoughts. It was like I was in darkness, but I didn’t know I was in darkness.

  I heard a familiar voice saying, 'Sis you got to wake up. Can you hear me? Come towards my voice, Sis…'   I  couldn’t comprehend what I was hearing. Then I knew I was in a tunnel, although I could not see the tunnel.  I wasn’t in my body, nor could I  see my body while I was walking. I couldn’t help but follow the sound of the voice.

  After I got closer to this voice, I recognized it. It was my brother, who was found dead on Mother’s Day, 2010.  I never saw him, I just heard him and felt him.  The entire time,  I was getting closer to his voice as he  continued  pleading for  me to wake up. He also kept saying. 'What about Mom?  You can’t do this to Mom! You have to think about mom and dad. You can’t leave mom and dad.'  I then felt like I was nearing the end of the sensation of being in a tunnel.
  
The whole experience lasted a few seconds, but at the same time it felt like an eternity. I didn’t know that I wasn’t awake.

    All of a sudden, I sat straight up in bed.  I didn’t know where I was, what was going on, or even who I was. I was so confused. I laid back down again and it immediately hit me.  I remembered snorting the pill and being scared. Then I thought, 'Where is Jeremy?' I sat right back up and  started yelling for him. There was no answer.  

  I crawled to the back door, had problems breathing, and was so tired. I realized that the door was hitting his foot as he was snoring. I went to shake him and he didn’t move. I was screaming his name and slapped him a little. Somehow, I got him out of the closet and into the middle of the room. I saw blood on his mouth, he had blood in his mouth too. I tried to perform CPR but it wasn’t working. I stuck my fingers into the back of his mouth, and there was a bloody clot in his throat that I got out. I started doing CPR again.  I glanced around the room real fast and didn’t see our phone.  I ran to the neighbors house and they called 911 for me. 

  I started doing CPR again and he still wasn’t breathing. A policeman ran in and told me that I did a good job. I heard other first responders running in and yelling to 'hit him with narcan' and 'he's code blue.' When we got to the hospital, I fell asleep. When I woke up,the doctor told me I shouldn’t have been alive and there was no way to explain how I even woke up. The doctor told me I had enough fentanyl in my system to kill three grown men. They said the fact that I woke up and even was able to move was one of the most amazing things they’ve seen. They released me later that morning to be with Jeremy.  He did survive but over time the only residual symptoms is that now he jumps and twitches in his sleep a lot. 

  I believe my brother gave me the strength I needed and I know for a fact it wasn’t a dream. My brother really woke me up. I know in my heart that I wasn’t alive. The way I was gasping when I woke up, made me wonder if I was breathing at all.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 01/02/2020  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.    Drug or medication overdose.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I was an active addiction in 2020 and somebody sold us a pill that was pure fentanyl.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I don’t know if I was more conscious and alert in my experience, but I do know that It was the clearest my mind has ever been of worries and all the outside influence in the world. There was no stress ;there was no nothing. I just felt an overwhelming sense of love and comfort. Hearing my brother's voice  was such a surreal experience.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Literally RIGHT BEFORE I sat straight up in bed gasping for air (awoken)  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn’t have a vision of anything it was more like instead of seeing,  I was feeling and hearing what was happening around me.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was the clearest as ever been  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

  Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I wasn’t seeing i. I could just feel that my brother’s voice was leading me down this tunnel. I could feel the presence of a tunnel with  no light. When I got to the end,  I could just feel it. Everything happened in like a millisecond.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My big brother's voice.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness, love, curious, familiarity, peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know.   I was raised Baptist. 

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain       

  What is your religion now?       Do not know.   I believe there’s something more out there, I just don’t know what. I believe in science, but I also believe that there’s no way this can all be accidental.   

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:     

  Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes.   I still feel that I can’t express it in words. I can't get the feeling and the experience out in a way that  I feel peoplecan  truly understand  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

  Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain.   I  heard my mom's friend talk about her having one. She had a head injury and aslmost died. Prior to my experience, I didn’t believe her and  thought she was crazy.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No                  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cecily_w_probable_nde.html