{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cecilia_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Cecilia H NDE 2499","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cecilia H NDE 2499  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cecilia H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						782  Cecilia H NDE  2499  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Death caused by hypobulimic shock. The Light attracts me as a magnet. It is so marvelous that I follow it but then retreat from it because I am listening to the crying of the people who were surrounding me. It is like if I turned to the right hand side i.e. I do not go up or down. It is strange. The feelings that surround me are as strong as ever. And that Light is white and catches me. I do not see nor hear anything else. I do not feel my body, or my head, nothing physical, only mental. It is all so beautiful that I do not want to leave the light. You know, even today I think about my experience and wonder why I did not follow the Light. When I followed the Light, I suddenly came back and opened my eyes.  It was so difficult to breathe the same air again which I see is dark; I look at the rest of people who are crying and I think I'll be fine and at the same time I feel sorrow for staying but then I realize that my baby needs me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	09/21/1996   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    ChildbirthAllergic reaction       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Death caused by hypobulimic shock.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Never lost consciousness. Everything was clear for me except that I did not know that I was supposed to be dead. I only learned about it when the doctor said I was dead. I heard everything.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt everything you mention and saw that light that is engraved in my mind.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I went to the right hand side towards the light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       All of them. Exactly all of the ones I described and something more which is not from this world.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Definitely. But right after this experience, I did not have it clear. I did things that I now understand that I did wrong firstly because it did not signify anything; it was only an experience. Outwardly, I felt it but it did not pour from my heart. Many strange things started to happen after some time. [Translator note: This piece of text was somewhat difficult to translate from Spanish since it was not very clear. I tried to convey what I thought the experiencer wanted to say.]  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Only the Light that was there. It suddenly appeared. Time was infinite. I cannot explain it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     More real than myself. It lives within me and is stronger every day. Why? I do not even kill an ant. It is like if everything is connected even with animal and plants. It is difficult to live with all this because it is beautiful and horrible at the same time because I can feel greater love.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Before I used to look for men's God. Today I look for the unique and true God that comprehends everything that surrounds us.  I only want to say that today the mystery of life is to know how to die. I would like to advise people that in order for us to live in harmony and peace, we should go to bed every night tranquil and knowing you may die but also knowing that you did not leave for tomorrow what could be done today. Also, we live to be able to forgive and defeat grudges and let love win.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       For example, NDE's are sometimes not very clear and more time should be allowed to let them clarify and define and be able to say something more concrete.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cecilia_h_nde.html