{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cc_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"CC Possible NDE 6886","mylang":"de"}
          	        CC Possible NDE 6886  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					CC Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3446 CC Possible NDE 6886  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Then the first thing I saw was a vision of myself dead on my bed and the landlord coming in the door with his daughter. He vomited and she screamed when they saw me dead on my bed alone in the basement suite.  Then I went through eye for eye and tooth for tooth punishment with each vision of my past. There were four visions.  I felt a pain in my arm and saw a vision of me inflicting pain on my sister’s arm when she refused to give me back my diary she took from my bedroom. I was a teenager when that occurred. 

Then I went into a tunnel and someone invisible held my hand. I lay on my back floating in the tunnel through different dimensions.  I looked down in the dimension and saw black souls grinding and gnashing teeth fighting among themselves. They were in a small area near a hole where fires were so I assume they threw the people into the fire and they could only stand there in that small area.  It was a grayish lit area.  Then went to the next dimension and it was a reddish lit area.  Then we went to the next dimension.  It was an area where they put thoughts of earth into my mind, trying to distract me from going further to the next dimension.  I believe that is where people become a spirit stuck on earth if they want to go back.

The next dimension was total darkness and I call that the waiting room. It is where you ask God for mercy and knock on heaven’s door. I was sobbing for Jesus and sobbing for God to help me.  Then all of a sudden, I was in a bright golden light shining all around me and could see nothing but the golden light.  Then the light parted and I saw clouds and people standing on the clouds. I thought that was the gates of heaven and that the people on the clouds were those who were assigned to welcome souls who made it through the tunnel.  Then I was standing on a cloud and the cloud moved down to where a cloud with many people I didn't recognize were standing and a man with golden hair held out his hands. He magnetically pulled me to his cloud and then when our fingers touched I immediately was back in my body. Not fully back in my body, but back in my home.  It took me days to be totally back in my body and I was feeling highly spiritual and not grounded.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I felt like I was dying. I lay on my bed hoping the feeling would go away but I became paralyzed on my bed and my spirit and soul began leaving my body starting at my feet. I felt like a empty shell laying on my bed and then I felt like if I took a breath it would be my last breath. Then I felt a pain in my heart and a snap sound and I left my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  In one of the dimensions I saw a cruise ship sailing on the ocean. That was something I never got to do on earth. The beautiful ocean and cruise ship distracted me and the hand that was holding onto my hand was slipping away when I was thinking of earth. I apologized for being distracted by that vision of the cruise ship and said I realize I cannot go on a cruise ship because I had died. The hand of the invisible being then held my hand again during the remainder of the travels in the tunnel. I had called out to Jesus to help me find my way to heaven’s door.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was back in my home immediately after being in heaven’s gate.  I became extremely spiritual and felt like my feet were not touching the ground when I returned to my home.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert the entire time but was filled with joy when I was in gates of heaven. The love was felt very deeply and I had my highest level of consciousness when I was surrounded by the golden light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The world appeared different after the experience. I was feeling highly spiritual and not grounded. I felt like I was walking on air when I returned to my home.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There were no sounds during the experience.  I looked at the clock when I was paralyzed on my bed and it was 9:30a.m. It took twenty four hours to return to my home.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was not in a tunnel when I received eye for eye and tooth for tooth punishment when seeing my past mistakes in visions of my past.  After that I was in a tunnel but almost left the tunnel when I was distracted by the vision of earth and a cruise ship on the ocean.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were many people on the cloud that the blonde male was standing on.  There were other people on other clouds but only a few on each cloud. I didn't recognize any of them except that the blonde male is identical to the photo of Jesus that the seventh day Adventist painted a portrait of.  But I don't think it was Jesus that magnetically pulled my cloud to his cloud.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A beautiful gold light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I did not enter the place named hell and did not enter the next dimension. I only floated above those places.  I entered a place I call the waiting room and entered a place I call heaven’s gate.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt joy when surrounded by the golden light. I felt extreme love in my heart.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I discovered that there are other dimensions and a tunnel that leads to the door of heaven. Mistakes I made in my past that I had not known I needed to ask forgiveness for I received an eye for a eye and tooth for tooth punishment for.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     A scene of me being found dead in my home by my landlord and his daughter.  He opened the door, vomited, and his daughter screamed and ran away up the stairs after she saw me dead on my bed.  That would have been what would have happened if I had not returned to my home.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Heaven’s gate was the most beautiful place I have ever been to. I felt so much joy and so much love. I wanted to stay there but had to return to life to be with my children. I was given a second chance at life.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Had been united church of canada during childhood till teenager. then when I was a adult I became holy anglican and before that as a adult I attended a variety of christian churches like presbyterian and alliance church.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I study the Holy Bible often and I watch shows on religion. I am still trying to find the right church.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Anglican

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     After the experience I then believed totally in Jesus and believed in heaven and realized there is a hell that people are sent to and realized how people who dwell on earth while in the tunnel become ghosts and go to earth as ghosts if they forget to seek the kingdom of God and forget to seek God and forget to ask Jesus to show them the way to the door of heaven to knock on the door of heaven to ask for mercy for the mistakes made that they were punished for.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a strong belief in obeying the Ten Commandments and obeying the laws of God ever since the experience.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There were no voices, but I encountered a man that looked human and was dressed in clothing like a human and had gold hair. He was standing on a cloud with many people I did not recognize. The other clouds I saw did not have as many people on them.  In heaven’s gate there are greeters for every soul.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   I saw a eye floating in mid-air that was a large eye of a tibetan so it could have been a eye of the buddha.  there was another eye that was smaller that is identical to the eye that is on the united states currency in a pyramid that I saw after I saw the

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     When standing on a cloud surrounded by a golden light (which oould be the light of Jesus) I was filled with love and joy in my heart beaming from the golden light.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had realized that I had to make better choices and not make mistakes. I had to not cause anyone emotional pain or physical pain.  I was a good person during my life, but I made a few mistakes that I had not thought of asking to be forgiven for doing.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I realized that Jesus is real and God is in heaven and that it is probably a angel that takes you through the tunnel and holds your hand the entire time you are in the tunnel.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I know there is a place called hell and I know there is a place where they throw people into a hole where there is fire.  I know there is a place in another dimension where some people go to.  I know there is a place I call heavens gate where people greet

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     The people on the clouds looked exactly like human beings and dressed like human beings but they all had a slight light around their bodies.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Certain things that people aren't aware of that they are not forgiven for receive punishment (eye for eye tooth for tooth punishment)  I felt the same pain in my arm that my sister felt in her arm.  I was trying to get her to give me back my diary and mad

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love filled my heart and my body when i was surrounded by the gold light and so much joy in my heart like I never felt ever in my life.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I began studying the Holy Bible more often and studied different religions.  A place where people who have the Egyptian religion go to is a reddish light. It has a pillar and is in the bottomless pit.  The religion of the sphinx is not a religion that God approves of is what I found out. They are sent to a different dimension.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am more religious, changed my life, and have different friendships I tried to find new friendships that believe in the afterlife and that believe in Jesus and in God.  I learned a great deal about the spiritual worlds and learned a great deal about the spiritual dark.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was such an awesome experience in the gates of heaven. It is difficult to put into words how much love there was there and how much joy I felt in my heart there.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember before and during and after accurately.  But the month after I do not recall accurately my experiences because I was not quite in my body till a month after the near death experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I got the gift of discernment of spirits, became telepathic, and began doing remote viewing I had out of body experiences where I did soul travel to a castle in Scotland and to a mansion in Europe and to a log cabin. I have not had those experiences for over two years now that I am myself again.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being pulled out of darkness into the light and feeling so much joy and love that I wanted to stay there. But I also wanted to be back on earth with my children.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I waited for a year before I could talk of the experience because of all the changes that had occurred.  My life changed after the experience and I had the gift of discernment and could remote view. Invisible spirits attacked me a few times.  I was told that when you go into other dimensions beings from those dimensions come to visit you and sometimes attack you physically.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believed I was given a second chance at my life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I felt like I was dying before the experience and did die.  My heart stopped beating and I was in other worlds. I had left my body.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I started having out of body experiences after the near death experience. I had help from angels who saved me from drowning in the river and helped me be protected from having a car accident. I believe that I have a guardian angel helping me stay alive.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I didn't know much about the spiritual dark before the near death experience. I didn't do out of body experiences or astral travel before the near death experience. I got the gift of discernment of spirits after the near death experience and learned a great deal from that gift.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cc_possible_nde.html