{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1catura_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Catura J Probable NDE 8116","mylang":"de"}
          	        Catura J Probable NDE 8116  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Catura J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4232 Catura J Probable NDE 8116  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was late that night when my friend called her mom to come pick us up from the movie theater. I remember waving goodbye to my friends as we were pulling away.  My friend's mom told me to put on my seat belt.  Prior to that night, I had hardly worn my seatbelt. That is the last thing I remember before my accident occurred. I only know now about my accident from what I heard from my parents about what happened when they arrived at the scene. It was about a block away from my house.  I was riding in the back seat when my friend's mom made an illegal U-turn at a four way stop.  The car that hit us had run a red light and was going about 60 miles an hour. His car hit the backside of the car where I was sitting. I do not remember the wreck whatsoever. 
 
 I do remember being in a beautiful and comforting place. But I didn't know how I got there. There was a nice pool there where I was looking at myself in physical form, but I was separate from my body. I saw myself when I was about 8 years old and having fun jumping into the pool. After this, it wasn't as if I was talking.  It was more telepathic when my soul (or whatever I was in that moment) asked, 'Where am I?' I knew someone was beside me, although I couldn't see him or her physically.  They responded, 'You're in heaven now, you can do whatever you want.' I remember looking at myself at the pool, and perhaps I reconnected into my body in a short moment.  But I was in the pool when all of the sudden the monkeys from the movie 'Jumanji' started attacking my legs or moving them, but I had no fear. I was at peace. It was very peaceful there.  There aren't really words to describe the feeling other than I didn't have a worry in the world. 
 
 I had another instance that happened after that and I think it happened when I was in a coma, but I can't be sure.  I was riding on a school bus that resembled the magic school bus from an old cartoon.  The first scene was a wide shot of the bus driving like an establishing shot in a movie. The view then cut to me inside the bus with Jesus.  There were many animals inside the bus with us. We were travelling to California to go fight forest fires. (I don't remember him telling me that or how I knew that's what we were doing), but I just knew. I remember seeing Jesus in the bus sitting down in a seat and I was looking at him. My parents tell me that I woke up from my coma and told them that we were on our way to California to fight forest fires, and that they kind of giggled. I fell back into a coma and three days later, California had caught on fire in all of the places in California that I told my parents, to which we were travelling. 
 
 This is my near death experience. I'm hoping I will be able to get some help working through what happened and help with maybe some clarity.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.     Direct head injury.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   When I had the experience, I had been in a car accident and was pronounced dead at the scene for around 5 to 7 minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   My consciousness just was, not worried. It was just normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It has been 11 years ago now, but I believe my highest level of alertness was when I saw myself by the pool and asked where I was.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I cannot explain this greatly, but I guess I was seeing the same way I do now. Everything was distinct in color though, and I saw myself at a younger age than I was when the accident happened.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot recall my hearing during the experience

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I don't remember this extremely well, but I do remember some kind of colored light that was beside me when I had asked the question about where I was.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It didn't seem too unearthly to be honest; there was green grass and an underground pool in which I was playing. There were pool toys around; I use to swim a lot when I was younger, so maybe it was the most comforting thing for me to see. I think I had a slushy in my hand too.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It wasn't like feeling, not as feelings are on earth. It is more of just a confidence or... no feelings at all, but peaceful. It is hard to explain. But just imagine not having any worry or stress in your mind or body. No pain, no worries. Just in the moment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   I was young at the time, so I wasn't religious I didn't ever have a lit of thought about it before my accident

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Christian would be the closest religion but I am more spiritual and just know there is a power greater that loves me and wants us to love

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was so young it is hard to say, but from the experience that happened 11 years ago, I am finally trying to unravel it.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The voice and I were speaking telepathically. I wasn't in a physical sense and neither was the voice that spoke to me. We were just there, but not physically.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I saw Jesus on the school bus that I was in when we were on our way to fight the forest fires in California.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I am sure that they have, I am sure I wouldn't be the same person without that experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Sometimes I feel disconnected from the experience. When it happened, I was 13 and when I woke up from my coma, I was injured very badly. I broke all of the bones on the right side of my body; my right eye had exploded from the impact of the car. I have short and long-term memory loss, but what I remember from my NDE is pretty clear, clearer than most memories are. But, after my accident, I never really dealt with what I saw.  I was in a lot of pain and so many things were going through my head about what had happened and what my life was going to be like.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am more intuitive.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared what happened, to my parents. I think we were all uncertain still at the time of what it could have been. Rather like, 'it couldn't have been that'.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I detached from the experience I think. My life after the accident was a mess; I fell into addictions to eating disorders and alcohol. I am just now starting to try and understand what happened during my near death experience. I have always been able to talk about it, but lately I am becoming more curious about it. I think it is because I am getting closer to God and connected to him.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know that it was real, it still seems almost unreal, even though I know what happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1catura_j_probable_nde.html