{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cathy_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Cathy M NDE 2850","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cathy M NDE 2850  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cathy M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						978  Cathy M NDE  2850  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  May 1984.

The doctors where working on me. They were removing my kidney to take to my sister in the adjacent surgery room. All I can remember is that I was floating over my body. Not really paying attention to the fact that the doctors where having problems with my punctured lung. All I saw was the light that was holding me over my body. It was peaceful and wonderful! It was comfortable climate wise and I was just looking down. Waiting for something, I did not know what. I felt the warmth of the love and the peace of just floating without a care. Suddenly, I heard the cry of my baby girl. I had just had my daughter Elizabeth on January 16. The doctors where waiting for me to recuperate from the birth and to re-do all the necessary tests for the transplant. I had gotten pregnant and did know and find out until we were ready to have the transplant. My sister and I were admitted in the hospital and waiting for the final blood work. This would tell the doctors that everything was okay and that they could perform the transplant. I remember the doctor coming into my room with a very worried look on his face. He told me that my blood test did not match/was not compatible with those of my sister. I told the doctor that there was a mistake. He told me that they could not re-do the test in time for us to have the transplant and that the surgery had to be post-pone until the test matched and where okay. He told me that if they went ahead the transplant might not work and my sister's body would reject the kidney. I knew that they were wrong.

As the days went by, I started to have nausea in the mornings. I found out that I was pregnant. The transplant had to be postponed until after the birth of my baby. I know why the transplant was postponed. I know why I got pregnant. It was because the transplant would not work with the team that they put together the first time. When I was hovering over my body, all of this came to light. I also knew that I wanted to die because my husband was not supportive of my decision to give my sister the kidney. God in his all mighty power showed me that I could go to heaven and leave everything behind. I would not have to deal with my husband and the pain of his neglect. Then my baby cried and she brought me back to life. The moment that I heard her cry, I knew that I had to take care of her. It was as if someone had snapped their fingers and I woke up from the anesthetic. I was asking questions about complications during the surgery. I was told of my lung having been pierced and the fact that the doctors could not wake me. I knew right there and then, what had happened. I knew that I was trying to escape from the pain of my husband's neglect. I knew that God sent my daughter to us so that the transplant would be successful and so that I could find a new life with more knowledge and a better awareness of what is important to me, my children. My life changed dramatically after that. My belief in the higher energy grew; my intuition became more in tuned. I am now a practicing Psychic. What I learned on that experience is the love and compassion that we need to survive and help others survive. Yes, our energy and our thoughts are what create who we are. We become what we believe and think. Our body, spirit, mind and soul are affected by our thoughts and belief.

If I close my eyes, I can go back to that time and place and I can feel the wonderful feeling of being free. It is an incredible feeling when we know that we were given a new opportunity to live our life in a better way. I know that it is because of that experience that I am now able to feel and see things that others may not. That is why I am now able to help under the practice of being a psychic and a more loving individual. It was as if I had all of a sudden gone to schools that gave me, the knowledge to help people with the many various problems that they face. I sometimes amaze myself of what I know without having gone to school.

I thank God for his blessing every day.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'May, 1980'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-related     My lung was punctured.  The Drs. had a rough time getting me to respond.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Going through a Kidney Transplant with my sister.  I was the donor.  She the recipient.  My punctured lung.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was a focused alertness on what was going on with the doctors working on my body and at the same time hearing, feeling the light the warmth, the love that I was experiencing while I watched above my body all that was going on. Not really caring and still knowing that I had a decision to make. I could leave because I was feeling hurt and neglected, that is until I heard my baby cry. I snapped. The light went away, I was no longer above my body and I woke up. It all happened so rapidly. I did not know what transpired until I was told of what had happened and how the doctors where having a hard time getting me back.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Up until the moment that I heard my baby cry.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I had no notion of how much time I spent out of my body. It just seemed that I was hovering over my body for quite some time but not really...  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    While I was hovering over my body and the doctors I did not hear them, I was observing but not really hearing what they were saying. I was more aware of the feelings that I was going through out of my body.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was around me and it seemed to be holding me over my body and it was warm and loving.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, warmth, love, until I heard my baby cry. Then it was a worried feeling. I went back to my body.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     The experience of my husband not wanting to be supportive of my decision to donate my kidney to my sister. Yes, I felt the pain and the sadness. I knew that I wanted to die. So I was hovering over my body but not really concentrating on that still knowing that I wanted to die and make the pain go away. Until I heard my baby cry...  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic by birth.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more open to just doing the right thing and all religions are based on one. Love and doing the right thing.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more open to just doing the right thing and all religions are based on one. Love and doing the right thing.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I really did not know at the time. It all just seemed to be very normal and I was not afraid at all, that is until I heard my baby cry. I felt the worry and concern. I knew that I had to get back to her and I did.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I care more about people. I feel their problems and pains even from far away. I can predict events and tell them about past events in their life. I am guided and given information that I really do not know. I just listen and do as I am told. No questions asked. It is a great feeling a wonderful feeling that is warm and very, very loving.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   It was not difficult explaining the event and how I felt when I could see myself hovering over my body with a light surrounding me. I could see my body and the doctors working on me.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A sense of knowing. I had to go see my sister right away. I was able to walk to see her the next day with the help of my sister. I walked, the nurses were not aware that I had gone. I knew that they would not let me up from the bed. I had to see my sister's kidney working and I did. I knew that it would. My sister and I had been guided to meditate, pray and speak to our bodies prior to the surgery. We both have healed and she is as healthy as I am. Her kidney is working just fine. We told it to and it is doing so.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        First the sadness and the hurt of knowing that I wanted to die and leave all the pain behind because my husband was not understanding and caring. Then the knowing and the worry when I heard my baby cry. She brought me back to life. I believe that she came to me as an Angel sent by God so that she could bring me back to life. I know that he planned it all. I know that the new found intuition and life time experiences that I now have where all learned when I left my body. I am here to help and make a difference in people's lives.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right after the surgery. I told my mom and sister. Occasionally, I will share with individuals that I feel comfortable sharing with. They are amazed and I find that when I share it is because they need help and guidance with personal problems. It helps them to know and it changes their way of looking at life and their problems.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I became more in-tune with life and the people around me. It is as if I had been sleeping all the years prior to the experience. I became alive and aware of every day and everything around me. I found more joy in the things that I did and as time has progressed, I find that I am still finding more about the gifts that have been given to me on that day of the transplant. I know that I changed and I am a better person because of that experience. I do not fear death and I am at peace with God, people and the universe.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Currently, just now as I am writing what I experienced the loving light the feelings that I felt then, I am feeling now. I know that now when someone approaches me with a problem, I will be guided as to how to help them and make their life a better and happier life.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The experience changed my life for the better. I am blessed to have been given the opportunity to fulfill my destiny of helping people wherever I go. Bringing love and peace to their spirit, heart and soul.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You have done a fantastic job of asking questions and giving instructions. Thank you, for allowing me to re-live my experienced and now with your questions it was a most, most wonderful and detailed re-living of it.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cathy_m_nde.html