{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cathy_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Cathy H NDE 252","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cathy H NDE 252  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cathy H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1396 Cathy H NDE 252  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I'm not totally sure about this. After the surgery, I was very ill. I was very out of it for a week. I had the feeling that I had died. I had this vivid recollection more like an experience. The doctor never said anything to me about losing me at the time. Two years later a nurse that was in surgery with me told my mother that they had lost me for a couple of minutes and that she was very lucky to still have me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 25 1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I'm not totally sure about this. After the surgery, I was very ill. I was very out of it for a week. I had the feeling that I had died. I had this vivid recollection more like an experience. The doctor never said anything to me about losing me at the time  Undergoing surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very alert and excited and happy.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I remember coming out of darkness into the light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw Jesus holding my five year old son who had died two years earlier in an accident. They were both dressed in white. They were standing or floating in this bright light. I couldn't see much of anything else I was to focused on seeing my son. Jesus was holding him. Jesus put him down and he came to me. I was so happy to see him. We embraced and I told him that I could see that he was in good hands and that he was very happy and full of love and peace, but I had to go back to earth and help his sister, who was nine, to get through the trial of this life. I told him I loved him. He understood what I was saying and then I went back. I remember wanting so desperately to stay there with him, but I just couldn't. I felt very torn and sad to leave at that moment. I'm sitting here with tears in my eyes. I'd go back there in a minute if I could. It was such a wonderful experience. It's been such a blessing in my life.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was bright and full of peace and love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and happiness and a sadness to leave and come back to earth.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I have a knowledge that Jesus is real and heaven is a real place. I know that the most important things in life are family and spending time with them, and that we can trust in the Lord. We need to help other people when we can. The most important thing is to do the best job you can in everything and to love everyone and everything in this world no matter how bad your situation is in life. When you keep your focus on getting to heaven to be with the Lord, it becomes much more easy to do the right things. It suddenly doesn't matter what or how other people or life has treated you. It becomes very easy to forgive and turn the other cheek. It becomes very easy to except adversity. I know that everything that happens is for the good even if it doesn't seem like it at the time. Life is a learning experience. At times, we're the student. At times, we're the teacher. When we've learned what we need or have served our purpose in this life we go back to God.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I had to decide to go back to my body.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I attended the united church of Christ. I had a strong belief in God. I

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   I belong to the Mormon Church. Now I don't just believe in God and Jesus Christ and heaven, I know it's there! There's a big difference. I don't fear death and have much more faith in the Lord to work in my life.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I just want to be the best person I can be, so that I can get back to heaven.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The fact that it was a real experience and not at all like a dream.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I do feel like my son communicates with me on occasion.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cathy_h_nde.html