{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1catherine_s_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Catherine S NDE-like 9396","mylang":"de"}
          	        Catherine S NDE-like 9396  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Catherine S NDE-like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-like;OBE  						5037 Catherine S NDE-like 9396  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    At age 14, I was experiencing extreme emotional trauma. I had just started attending junior high, my father had just died of a sudden cardiac arrest and my parents had sold the house I was born into and my family had to move out of that house at the end of the month my father had died.  I was asleep when this dream occurred. I am sharing it because in some ways it is similar to an experience I read about in the list of experiences. I was asleep. I found myself in this most beautiful landscape. There was a river on my left. I was on a path beside the river and to my right was a thick forest. The scene on the other side of the river was identical. The colors were all shades and tints of a beautiful blue. I was walking along side a being in a hooded cloak. I couldn’t see their face but we were walking arm in arm. There was an overwhelming feeling of pure love and peacefulness. We did not speak using voice but telepathically. I don’t remember hearing any words but the sense I got was that everything would be alright. That I would never be alone. The sense of pure love and peacefulness has sustained me through the years as I remember that dream.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 1967  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Significant emotional trauma  Other Good health, emotional trauma  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I was asleep  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was asleep during the entire event  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt No passage of time  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The environment seemed to breathe blue  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything was shades of a beautiful blue. The environment seemed to breathe blue  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     A landscape all in blue. A river with paths on either side of the river and dense forest on the sides of the path farthest from the river. All blue  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy. Pure joy. Love and peace. Also a sense that my body was just a vessel for my spiritual self which was having this experience  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Not practicing  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Select   Not practising  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had never considered or heard anything up to that point that would have prepared me for that experience  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A figure taller than me standing on my left on the path between me and the river. This figure was in a dark blue robe with a hood that hid any facial features  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     As I previously stated An understanding that what I was experiencing was reality and what I ‘lived’ was just physical and limited in scope  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That physical life is not reality but a limited experience  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     An understanding that what I was experiencing was reality and what I ‘lived’ was just physical and limited in scope  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     That it exists only in the physical life which is limited in scope compared to reality  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     That it is reality and all encompassing  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?            At the time I was able to manage the significant emotional turmoil better  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is hard to explain the feeling of pure love and peace. It has to be felt to be believed. No words can give it justice.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  It seems to be a memory in an entirely different context. I remember the feelings of love peace and joy keenly  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is very difficult, regardless of how articulate a person is, to accurately describe and convey this purely emotional experience            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1catherine_s_ndelike.html