{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1catherine_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Catherine G NDE 2047","mylang":"de"}
          	        Catherine G NDE 2047  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Catherine G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						505  Catherine G NDE  2047  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I had an abortion from someone who was supposed to be a 'nurse'. In fact, two other women had died because of her supposed abortions. I felt terribly, terribly ill. I was in a tremendous amount of pain. Pain everywhere in my body. My partner carried me to the car, and I lay down in the back seat. He started for the hospital. There was a thunderstorm, we stopped at a railroad crossing and it was then:

I felt myself lifting out of my body. I did not see my body below anything or me. The pain subsided and at the same time, I KNEW I was dying. I felt my being, my SELF, being absorbed into what I was later to describe as the arms of God. I experienced the most powerful, profound love and peace. Every hurt, pain, regret, all the negative things of my life were erased, wiped away. They no longer mattered. The only thing I felt was this unbelievable peace and love. The love was so vast, so much greater than anything I had ever experienced here on earth. I have never feared death since. I felt I had been given the greatest gift I could ever receive. The doctors said later that I was so far out there, they didn't think they had a prayer of bringing me back.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 1968  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Illegal abortion resulting in systemic infection...one name for it is old fashioned child-bed fever  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Illegal abortion resulting in severe systemic infection.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There isn't a way to explain it, as there is no feeling like it here on earth. It was crystal clear. It was like going Home at last, at last. A feeling of belonging, of meaning, of completeness.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I was being absorbed into this great realm of love and peace and union.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Can't remember that, but definitely a nothingness as far as time, space just seemed forever and ever.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Other worldly love and peace.   A feeling of final rest and completeness.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total relief and joy and union with the Divine.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Grew up Episcopalian, converted to Catholicism at 19 yrs., followed guru in India for several years, tried Methodist, and Catholic again, looked into Buddhism, finally detached from organized religion.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I think that every path to God is valid, no matter what it may be called. I think the love that God has for every single one of us is beyond description it is so great, so vast and so profound.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I think that every path to God is valid, no matter what it may be called. I think the love that God has for every single one of us is beyond description it is so great, so vast and so profound.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just that we are not judged.  There was no horrible punishment - just LOVE.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I still have a lot of emotional garbage. Still working on these things.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Even more sensitive to stimuli - sounds, stories, heat, cold. I do feel I have a gift of working with people who are dying. Have done volunteer work with a hospice.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I had always been terrified of death, of oblivion. I no longer fear death.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was working at the Edgar Cayce Foundation at the time, and I shared it with a lot of people. It invoked a sense in wonderment in all of us.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read about it but others' experiences seemed far more complicated and different from mine. I did not go through a tunnel, or watch my body below, or see a light or meet any beings.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so clearly in my consciousness. There was no way I could forget it, not ever.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I have never feared death since. I may not like some of the ways we arrive at actual death, but I will never be afraid of death itself.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1catherine_g_nde.html