{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1catalina_nde.html","mytitle":"Catalina NDE 7545","mylang":"de"}
          	        Catalina NDE 7545  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Catalina NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3869 Catalina NDE 7545  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am actually a volunteer and I work in a laboratory performing bio-medical analysis. I am happy just being able to learn there. 

On the January 6, I saw a colleague was having a problem opening an autoclave, so I asked her if she needed help. Both of us tried to open up that mechanism.  I was electrocuted when a big vibrational field exploded and hit me in the face. I fell down and struck my head.  

I don't know how much time I was unconscious. I woke up in the same room able to see my body. I was able to receive information without actually thinking, speaking, or hearing. It was all white and bright. I figured I was dead because my body was on the floor. I didn't see blood or anything. I knew I was dead.  I felt so sorry; it was the saddest moment. I was crying because I didn't know why I died.  It was the very first time I felt the compassion, but it was for me.  I was always a good, caring and kind person. But I've never been my own friend. So, I was feeling like I needed to hug and tell myself, 'It's going to be okay.' Right when I was crying and asking if I am dying, I received information. I don't know why it happened but I know that some aspects of my life flashed, just like on a screen.  Then, I remembered that I am a mother. I saw my son's face and I understood that God will let me live again. I felt like I had to choose. It felt like God was on my right side and a little behind me. It wasn't something that I had to see, but it was that peace that I felt when he is there.  I knew things I never knew, and did everything accordingly. God gave me the feeling that I shouldn't be kind just to say how kind I am, but be unconditionally kind with everyone, including myself at every time and in any circumstances. 

I woke up for real after that, and was able to go get help on my own two feet.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6th January 2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   An autoclave exploded in my face because of the pressure. It caused electrocution and head injury.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I didn't care there. It's not like I didn't, I just realized that I was not the body or the mind because I was unconscious. So I knew that I was something else. When I felt God's presence, I knew I was not lost and I had a task or something to do. I didn't know how I was doing on ‘completing the task.’  I felt things on a higher level.  The information I got came into me just like that: instantly.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was all difficult to comprehend for me. It was too much. But I know that my feelings were alive and were the deepest. I never felt such sadness and pity. I don't know if there’s a highest level. I don't know all the levels.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lost all meaning. I mean my life flashed before my eyes really quickly, but figuring things out and the communicating with God was all peaceful and slow.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I woke up I observed myself walking to the doctor's room. If when I was unconscious I saw everything bright and white, now the vision changed to gray, I guess. I saw matter. I saw the walls and the hallway in the 3 dimensional feeling. Before, I could have seen behind me. I could have anything I wanted or become anything I wanted.  Wherever my attention went, I went.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Right when I got hit, I heard normally.  When I was unconscious, it was all silent. So I don't know if I would've heard better.  It's been 24 days since the experience and I am afraid of spontaneous, unexpected sounds. I like silence.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was the kind of white that makes you close your eyes: really bright!

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt pity, sadness, regret, sorry, happiness, kindness, love, and compassion

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I understand people: The good/bad dilemma. I can see myself in others, doing the same things they do, wishing they'd be more kind. I understand the soul. I found out that my soul is so fragile, like a snowflake. I got the feeling that I really am a drop in the ocean; Even if the soul is so fragile, the body is almost nothing.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My past flashed before me, out of my control.  I saw a ‘video’ of myself, really fast. I can't remember anything of it. Just at the end of my video I saw my kid. I actually have a kid. It was him, not any other child.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   At first I was sad. Then I was okay with it. I felt that presence and it was the best thing. But when I saw my life I felt sorry and sad. Seeing my son made me regret that I could die. It was like my dad allowing me another half hour outside playing. I felt that I could use some more time. I am sure I could've died. He is just so amazing and loving that he let me ‘play’ some more.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was raised as an Orthodox Christian. But i was trying to figure things out. I had so many questions and it was the time i needed to be answered.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     See above

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   It's hard to say. I believe in God. That's all i know and feel now.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     i was a little surprised. it was the first time i felt i could be something other than my body.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I admire kind people. I love every single person on Earth. I do not agree with some of our actions, but I love them. We are not our actions. We are the observation of our feelings when we do something. Now I like quiet people. Those who talk all the time give me headaches. I believe I am only responsible for myself. I learned to let go of ego and stupid emotional attachments.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt like I was a naive kid, making all these mistakes and my father came to meet me. I've had the feeling I met my (and everyone's) father. A father that's incredibly loving and forgiving. I've had the feeling that he understands me, he really knows my soul and thoughts and everything. He does not judge, he just accepts you as you are. Seeing that incredible love he has, it makes me want to act likewise.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I met God. Or someone he sent to welcome me :)

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I got the feeling that our purpose is to make God happy by making ourselves happy. Then the entire ocean is sweeter with every drop.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I understood that we are doing all wrong. I found that the purpose is happiness, kindness and love. All the good things we do should be for no reason and have no expectations. I know that we don't control ourselves. We just have to see it. And let God do his job. :) He gives us not what we wand, but what we need for our evolution.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was there. I hidnt have a body, that's all. I was experiencing things without the help of my body and brain. There is life after death. Its just very differnt.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     yeah. i learned that i should love and value my body, that every experience shows us something and that NOTHING can happen to us. And by us i mean our souls.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     i found out that there's another type of love that i never felt before. Its based on understanding an knowledge.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life. Before, I saw things differently. Now I am sure that if I give and don't have expectations, it makes me better and it makes me happy. I don't need gifts of any kind, except for hugs. I just love the giving process. I don't care about the rest of it. I leave everything in God's hands.     Moderate changes in my life. Before, I saw things differently. Now I am sure that if I give and don't have expectations, it makes me better and it makes me happy. I don't need gifts of any kind, except for hugs. I just love the giving process. I don't care about the rest of it. I leave everything in God's hands.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I care more about people and less about my connection to them. I want them happy. I love them. But I don't take them as mine.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I find it difficult to write in English. I find it hard and weird to talk in my own language. It's like my mind can't quite explain it to me. I can't explain it with my soul because the soul couldn't care less about explaining.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel a pulse right above my belly button; a warm sensation on my back, along my spine. I lose myself sometimes and then I try to figure out what should I do. It’s like I forget everything. A blank space and then I wake up and continue figuring out life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I never knew that I was capable of such strong feelings. When I ‘saw’ my body I was so sad that I felt my soul cry. That feeling is something I can't forget.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right after. I was so happy I came back that I told it to many people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Nope. But I did experience two days almost like in ‘The Final Destination’ movie. I felt like something is after me and my other three friends.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It’s been 3 weeks since it happened. My body is still recovering. It was real, that's not what I know, but what I feel. I have intuition now. I know that there are things our mind can't deal with, so I ‘know’ is more likely I ‘feel’. Reality is pretty much the same. Except that I am more alive. I can feel my soul. It's right on the surface.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   If you mean if I experienced something similar, the response is no.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It helped me to see life as an opportunity to love, observe and try to understand. I am thankful I am alive. Sure, I'd like to grow old, but if God needs me there, I'm there. I wouldn't mind. I kind of know what's there for me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Actually, no.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1catalina_nde.html