{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1catalin_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Catalin A NDE 2146","mylang":"de"}
          	        Catalin A NDE 2146  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Catalin A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						581  Catalin A NDE  2146  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  It was a clear sunny day on a late spring if I'm not mistaken and I went with my father to the backyard of a school where he used to teach sports. He had a group of eighth grade students running around him in a circle, probably for warm-up, was focused on their activity, and didn't worry about me, as I was about twenty meters away from the circle playing. I decided to go to my daddy, as I got bored of being by myself. I started towards the group searching for him (everybody seemed so tall at that time as I was only five). The older kids obstructed my sight of him for several seconds with their 'giant' bodies so that it was a little harder than I'd have expected. Nevertheless, a few moments later I managed to spot him, which made me so happy that I simply decided to run to him as fast as I could. It was a terrible mistake because in doing so a boy accidentally collided with me while attempting to enter the circle. I fell to the right hand side as the students rushed from the left and hit my head severely.

There was no pain whatsoever except for a very short moment when I had the unpleasant feeling of being forced to the ground in a somewhat brutal way. Immediately after the impact, I saw an extremely thick fog all around me.  In spite of the daylight, I could not make anything out because the fog was so thick. It only lasted for about ten seconds but I can't be sure of it and then everything changed.

This is where the unexplainable begins: Suddenly my vision was perfect; my hearing also, but to me everything seemed to be normal. I saw my dad picking me up and carrying me in his arms to hospital, which was pretty close to the school. He met a man on his way who asked what had happened, there were two schoolgirls who came with us to the hospital, and then I don't remember anything else from that moment till I woke up as it's been over twenty years since.

After actually being awake, I could see my mother along with the two girls from school staring at me and talking worryingly about my accident. It was no big deal to me at that time but as time went on I asked myself a lot of questions as I remember clear things that occurred while I was in a coma.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1984  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had a serious head injury and went into a coma.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very conscious all the way but the alertness level decreased step by step.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I think I was able to distinguish what everybody said around me.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Hard to tell, not too much emotion.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman-Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Roman-Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not really.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't realize it was unusual at that time as I was only five.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There was an unexplainable consciousness during the coma as if nothing had happened to me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1catalin_a_nde.html