{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cassandra_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Cassandra K NDE 3872","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cassandra K NDE 3872  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cassandra K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1831 Cassandra K NDE 3872  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was experimenting with heroin, which turned out to be a very dangerous decision. I had had a fight with my boyfriend at the time and wanted to be alone. We were at a friend's house, I went into a bedroom sat on a bed and shot up the heroin. I was told that I died, only after did I realize what I had experienced was a near death experience. I remember all of a sudden I was conscious and aware of myself and I was somewhere else, but it was dark and I couldn't see anything but I wasn't afraid. I was very much aware of the fact that I was not in my body anymore but I was okay, I remember thinking where am I? I was aware that I was still here, that my brain still worked even though I had no body and I was happy to know that this was possible. I knew in that moment that we will always exist, this was the predominate feeling I had, this awareness of my soul continuing without a body. I have always felt since that day that there is no need for me to fear death because I know it's not the end. I never did drugs again after that, I was lucky that my friend came into the room and found me in time. She said I was black in the face and that I was not breathing, my heart was beating so slowly that it was almost non-existent. I was brought back by paramedics and all of a sudden I could feel air in my lungs again and I was back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  19/4/1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Drug overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Depth of perception was heightened I felt as though I knew the answers to Life.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was in my mortal body one minute and some time passed then all of a sudden I was somewhere, but it was dark there was no space I was a floating brain.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Clam, heightened awareness of self, peaceful, curious.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I came to be aware that I would always exist no matter what happened. I felt this, no one told me, and I just knew it because of what was happening I remember coming to this conclusion myself. I could think, I could joke around to myself but I was alone for the time I was there but I didn't feel alone?

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was pretty clueless when it came to people and situations before, I could never read people or know their motivations. Now I have an awareness of others intentions and emotions it's hard to describe but I am more in tune with others and myself.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just leaving with the knowledge that I will not die was comforting.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my boyfriend right after, he believed me, but most people I have told think that it's not true, they have no concept of what it's like so they can't relate.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I think I viewed it as reality mainly because I was on a heavy drug that was acting like a sedative. If I was conscious and in my physical body I would not have remembered everything so clearly or even experienced it because I would have been very drowsy and at best in a drug clouded state of mind which I was not while I was having the experience I was totally normal and alert.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just that death is nothing to fear.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cassandra_k_nde.html