{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1casper_nde.html","mytitle":"Casper NDE 4210","mylang":"de"}
          	        Casper NDE 4210  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Casper NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2048 Casper NDE 4210  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Almost immediately I had an allergic reaction to medicine prior to the NDE. Near-death experiences are often explained by the experts as a sensation that people on the brink of death have while leaving their bodies and observing them as though they were bystanders. Little did I know that shortly after Mich'l died, I would come close to losing my life and having the privilege of experiencing my first near-death experience.

During my NDE, I could see my body lying on a stretcher as the ambulance attendants worked feverishly to save my life. Unaware of any time or distance, my spirit floated high into the clouds - until Mich'l and I were reunited in a temple called Beautiful.

As we entered the temple, I was breathless and stood admiring the perfectly carved archways, and magnificent pillars. Since Mich'l was still unable to walk, I had to carry him through the temple gates. On the other side of the doorway, were six recliners placed in a circle. Somehow, I knew they were especially handcrafted for people who could not sit up unassisted. After placing my son into one of the chairs, I left the area. I still can't remember where I went or why, but when I returned, Mich'l had vanished.

I am not sure how much time elapsed before my attention was drawn towards a tall thin man, dressed in a dark suit, wearing black-framed glasses. He was standing alone next to the recliner where Mich'l was last seen, observing me. After asking if he had seen Mich'l, the spirit graciously explained to me that Mich'l was with God. Before departing, the spirit shared some encouraging news. Extending his hand towards me, I could see that it held a small white piece of white parchment paper, neatly folded in two. Once opened, the words, 'Acts 3, verse 1-8' were clearly visible.

After experiencing the power of standing in the white light, feelings of love and understanding flooded into my being. Any fears I developed during my lifetime were removed. Following several minutes of silence, an unknown voice inquired, 'What have you done with your life?' Sadly, I heard myself say, 'Nothing. I have wasted the entire forty-seven years.'

After choosing to return to my earthly body, I had to review all of my actions that were unkind towards others. Because of my religious upbringing, I always believed that when we die, we would be punished Unfortunately, I was just never sure about the severity of what wrong meant in heaven's terms. Contrary to my belief system, the light never judged me. I was made to judge myself. Another important part to my life's review demanded that I feel the same emotional pain others felt whenever I hurt their feeling with actions or words. By seeing other people's hearts and knowing how they were affected, it caused me to feel remorseful and ashamed. Thankfully, after the experience ended, the light granted me the understanding I needed and my soul found forgiveness. Before returning to earth, angels escorted me to a higher place and taught me additional lessons for me to share with other people. First, there is no such thing as time. It is man-made and self-imposed. Second, we are all brothers under the skin, and we all exist under the hood of one God. I was shown how people waste precious time fighting over what name to call God, when instead they should be acknowledging His existence and realizing that He wants nothing but the very best for us.

Third, we are all connected as one spirit. We think that we do not have any responsibility to a stranger because we do not recognize them, but we do. In essence, we are the same as they, inter-twined together like a complex wiring system. This is why that old familiar phrase, 'What goes around comes around,' rings true. When my NDE come to an end, I understood how what we do in this life might injure others and how we will be held accountable. Theoretically, if being cruel made another person fail to complete whatever job they were sent here to do, we will have to complete that task for them. That is why we often hear others say, 'I feel like I have lived five lifetimes.'

My fourth lesson was never to judge another harshly. In heaven, we get the privilege of seeing another person's heart as God would see it, so we can understand how someone might react differently than we would to a particular situation. In one scene, I observed someone very standoffish. After looking into their heart, I saw how they had been injured spiritually and acted harshly towards others out of fear. This knowledge made it easier to understand that not every action from another was about me or towards me. Sometimes it was just about them.

My final heavenly lesson taught me that all of our prayers are answered within seconds of being heard. Although it can seem like several months or years before they are answered, heaven does hear us immediately. Since time is manmade and self-imposed, it does not exist in spiritual realms. In the future, anytime you need a prayer expedited in man's time, remember to recite Psalms 69 and 70. They are our 911 to heaven. The angel communicating with me taught me how we are 99.99% emotion and how every decision we make is based on fear. A good example would be; if we do not work, we do not eat. Reading this, you would probably agree that it is a fact of life. It is even biblical! However, the point that I am trying to make is that we do not work because it is the right thing to do and because God's Word says that we should. Most of us work out of our own fear of being hungry, homeless, or not being able to keep up with the Jones's. Consequentially, by living day to day in fear, it provides us with different motives for working and living other than the ones God has planned for us. Although attractive at first, this type of behavior can often lead to our downfall.

Once the angel took the fear factor out of the equation, I had the honor of witnessing all of the things that God had chosen for me to enjoy in this lifetime, but that I denied myself out of stubbornness or fear. The experience helped me understand why God encourages us to place our personal feelings aside and live by trusting and believing unconditionally in Him. Before my journey ended, I knew that everything in my life happened exactly the way it was supposed to happen, when it was supposed to happen, and with whom it was supposed to happen with. Confident and armed with this new and exciting knowledge, I awoke in the ambulance, scaring the medics half to death!

In the end, my NDE and talking with the angels enabled me to be at peace knowing Mich'l was alive and well. He may have shed his physical body, but his spirit was alive living in heaven with God.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction  to medication  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Sensitive to light, noise and was very psychic. I became clairvoyant and received five gifts. Every spirit imaginable also bombarded me. It took two years for me to learn how to control my new gifts.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No time, man made Everything seemed to be happening all at once.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All of the above.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Could not stand loud noise. Normal tones are still too loud at times.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Went through the air backwards. I could see the road and the ambulance getting smaller. It was like being in an airplane as you ascend.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A white horse and beautiful fish in a pond. My son.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A temple called Beautiful in ACTS 3 verse 1-8

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Incredible peace or pleasantness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     From birth to the present (at that time). Remembered many past events.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Did readings for people and became very accurate. Great at locating dead bodies.  From personal future.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   non-denominational

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Gave up conventional religion. It is based on lies.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Gave up conventional religion. It is based on lies.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew why my son died and was okay with it. I wanted to return and even though life was horrible for me at that time, I was fine with it in heaven. No longer in conflict with nature.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am nicer, more caring and can sympathize with the human condition.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     All sensing. Clairvoyant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Saw a movie about it. You can teleport. You can't separate yourself from family members and friends. Everyone is the same.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Took me two years to figure everything out.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Very real. I was physically there and spoke to my deceased son.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Was shot last year and I immediately got that same warm, loving feeling like I was getting ready to leave here again. Then I passed out. Woke up the next day and went to the hospital.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1casper_nde.html