{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1casey_w_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Casey W Possible NDE 8228","mylang":"de"}
          	        Casey W Possible NDE 8228  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Casey W Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						4314 Casey W Possible NDE 8228  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I broke the L4&L5 vertebra while on duty with the Sheriff's Office causing me to have major back surgery. I had broken them so badly that after surgery I saw that I was cut from my naval to halfway down my left side to fix what couldn't be fixed going in through the back. 

  					    While lying there in the hospital, my brain decided to remember all my friends killed in Vietnam. After coming home, my physical and mental strength went down. In 2004 I went out to my car, put a gun to my head and cocked it. A voice, I believe God or an angel, told me to put it down because help would come. I was rated 100% disabled with PTSD by the Veterans Administration. I had been hurting more thn usual so I went  to my pain doctor. After testing my nerves from my back down, he said major surgery was needed with a 50-50 chance of helping. I opted out of surgery. Afterwards, I got to where I very seldom went anywhere and  would cancel any appointments that I had made. PTSD is a Monster. 

  					    On 12/16/2016, I decided God was tired of me hurting so much that it would be o.k. to take all my pain medications at once. I spread it out over 2 hours. I was convinced by the PTSD and the devil that God wanted me to come home this way. Even so, occasionally I would say, 'God, if this is a sin, please forgive me.' After I had taken all the pills, my brother walked in and asked me, 'What's happening?' I told him what I had done and he immediately took me to the emergency room, where I was immediately admitted. 

  					    That night something happened.  I realized that I was floating down a long white corridor like a tunnel. I was moving towards the most beautiful white light that I had ever seen. It was so beautiful that our words cannot describe it. I was experiencing complete peace and tranquility with  no fear or worry. Then I realized I had no body. In fact,  my consciousness was floating slowly towards the beautiful light and I was ready to go. When I was very close to the light, I heard a noise behind me. I didn't know what was making the noise, nor did I care until I started floating back towards it. First I went back slowly, then it got faster. 

  					    Suddenly, my eyes flew opened and a nurses face was right there yelling,'Casey, answer me!' I said, 'Hi.' The nurses were all around me with a doctor looking over their shoulders. I still don't know what all these nurses were doing, but I was back. At first I was busy trying to figure out what had happened. Then I knew that I had died and apparently was approaching Heaven. I didn't tell anyone for a long time what had happened, because I kept going over it in my mind. 
  					  				  Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/16/2016

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Suicide attempt. Drug or medication overdose.       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The only thing I heard was the noise behind me. I didn't understand until right before my eyes opened. The nurse was saying the same thing I was hearing when my eyes opened.   I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It wasn't.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized I was in the white tunnel and going towards the most beautiful white light I had ever seen.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was normal for my age, a little far-sighted, but not bad. Now that I think about it, my vision was perfect. I had no trouble looking around and everything was clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Except for the noise behind me, I didn't hear anything else.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I have no recollection of getting there because my last conscious memory was being in a hospital bed. I don't remember going to sleep. I was watching TV one minute and then was gone. I was in a white corridor, floating towards the most beautiful white light that  defies description.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The fantastically beautiful white light I was floating towards was unlike any other light I have ever seen. I was in a white corridor drifting towards it and felt no fear or trepidation. As bright as the light was, it didn't overpower the white walls of the corridor. The light was very bright, but looking at it, I realized it didn't hurt my eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     I was in a long white corridor like a tunnel. It had three walls, but I don't remember a floor. The walls were smooth and seemed to slope down gently. I don't remember feeling anything strange, like what I would expect  if I had entered into something unfamiliar, or creepy. There was absolutely no fear, anxiety, trepidation, or bodily signs of fear.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, relaxed, tranquil and no fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I had gotten extremely depressed, because I had broken my back yrs. earlier and had major back surgery. I believed God wanted me to come home. Even though I really believed God wanted this, a few times I said, ' God, if I'm committing a sin, please forgive me '.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant.   I'm a strong Baptist, strong believer in God. I had two combat tours in Vietnam. First one in the jungle for twelve months and my next tour I was a door gunner on a helicopter. There's no doubt that there were times that I would have died if God hadn't intervened.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I have read about experiences where someone was passing through a tunnel towards a white light, but nothing about whether they saw or if they knew they were still in a body. I realized I wasn't in a body, but only my conscientiousness was floating towards the light. Also I was in a rectangular box with white sides, but the light I was floating towards was the awe-inspiring white.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify.   I was getting close to the light and suddenly I heard an annoying sound behind me. I really wasn't paying attention to the noise because I was very close to the light and was wanting to go in. I heard the noise again and quit floating towards the light. Then I slowly started going backwards. I didn't care what the noise was, I didn't understand it other than a noise. Then I heard it again and went faster backwards, but couldn't see where I was going. I heard the noise start and right in the middle of the sound my eyes popped open. A nurse had been yelling at me to talk to her, so I answer her.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was on my knees in, what appeared to be a medieval battle field. Looking around all I could se were dead bodies in various stages of dismemberment. I could also smell the field. I spent two tours in Vietnam so I know what the smell of death is. This battle couldn't have been long over, because the smell of death hadn't gotten that bad yet. In fact it had probably just finished, because I saw aarmored legs walking towards me and a sword in the right hand. The cool breeze felt good on my face and I was so very tired I couldn't even raise my head high enough to see the mans face coming at me.  I know it couldn't be a dream, because I had never smelled anything before, nor felt breezes. Finally the legs stop in front of me and soon as they do I feel a hand grab my hair on back of my head. It seems I had long hair. I never heard nor saw the man behind me. Guess I was concentrating on trying to lift my head high enough to see who was in front of me.  I was so totally exhausted  and not very alert.  My head was jerked back sharply,the legs took a short step forward and a blur passed in front of my face. I felt the sword enter my chest between my breast armor and the base of my throat. Then it rapidly went deeper and I felt it hit my heart. Soon as it hit my heart, the same brilliant white light flashed and that's it. This is the first time I've told anybody about this and didn't realize I remembered so much. It was totally real and like I said I've never remembered details like I did.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life.     Other than being shown what happens after death, there have been no changes.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I really didn't know how to tell people that I wasn't aware of being in a body. In fact, I had a hard time describing the feeling to myself. I felt the same as when I had a body, but realized I had no pain, depression or any of the negatives that I had become used to. I hadn't felt this good since my younger days.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.   I still remember every aspect of the experience. Where other things fade around exact details after a time, none of this one has. The death experience I had in the field of bodies I also still remember in stark detail.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Only the peaceful end where I didn't even realize I had died, but was floating towards the light. No hysterical feelings, nor fear was felt.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mom was dying from cancer. When we were alone, I took her hand. I told her I believed God wanted me to share it with her. She died a week later, but never expressed any fear. I know she had a strong belief in God and I think my talk helped in her final days.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   What I had read.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Everything was very real to me. I had no doubt what had happened. There have been no dimming of what happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The way it ended. When I finally heard the words, I went from floating to seeing the nurse that had been yelling my name. No dream has ever ended like that.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was in combat one day where we were ambushed. The ambush was set so well there wasn't an easy way out, so we attacked the ambush straight on, twice and were repulsed. There was no help available to help us in time. We all agreed to die on our feet. When I realized I was going to die my brain totally accepted it. I became extremely calm and decided I was going to kill as many of them as I could. I hoped I could make them kill me, but if not I hoped I could shoot myself in the head and not be captured. We hit the ambush again and suddenly, we  broke through to safety.  I realized the air smelled cleaner, the colors were brighter and it felt like we had been born again. I suppose that's the closest to death I've had, without actually dying.  

  Correspondence 12/23/17 

Don’t know if I mentioned this, but while getting closer the light I decided to look down. I didn’t have my human body. There were (4)four non-glowing gold spheres that tapered down with no discernible feet. I could feel something over my ‘head’ but couldn’t see it. The most shocking thing now, to me, is that I didn’t freakout, but felt normal.

  I had no remembrances of my earth life. I didn’t remember my parents, son, no one.......  All I felt was as if everything was normal as I peacefully was getting very close to the light. I must be going somewhere most people don’t go, as I didn’t see any of my loved ones waiting on me.  Has anyone else had an experience like mine? The only person I’ve talked to about it  is my brother and he looked kinda weird at me, so that convinced me to tell anybody else about my body, only that I had a near death experience.   

Another experience: My mom was lying in a hospital bed, dying from cancer. She was trying not to show it, but knowing her I could see the concern in her   eyes. One day she and I were alone and I God told me to tell her about my experience, because hadn’t told her before.  I sat down on the edge of her bed, took her hand in mine and she looked me, her only child, with tears running down her face, breaking my heart, but I gave her the only gift a son can give his dying mother, Comfort and hope.   I said, ”Mom, that night when I was in the hospital, I didn’t tell you about what really happened. I was given some kind of med to help me sleep and I reacted to it. Mom, I died that night,” her eyes widened and tears came faster, but before she could say anything I went on, ”I believe God wanted me to be here with you and tell you that there’s nothing to worry about. You don’t even know when you’re gone, I promise that. You will be completely at peace, slowly moving towards God’s brilliant, most beautiful white you’ve never seen before. You’ll know what serenity means and feel the glory of God through the light. I firmly believe He sent me back to comfort you in your time of need. So, don't worry about anything, mother, you’re in Gods comforting hands.” The entire time I was talking,she didn’t move, nor ever take her eyes from mine and I could see the terror was gone. I had been rubbing her hand all the time and I felt the tension leave her hand. She laid back down and for the first time she wasn’t stiff, but more relaxed than she had been with a calm look on her face and a special mommy smile at me. They sent her home the next day and the day after that she died. I still remember everything about my experience with crystal clarity. I also know there’s no mention in our Holy Books about prior lives, but the one I described is also crystal clear. I can still feel that sword blade pushing into my chest and definitely when it hit my heart, and the Brillant White Light flashed when he hit my heart. Oh well, we’re promised that all will be made clear.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You have covered it as well as I believe you can. You gave ample opportunity to explain what we could and asked questions that prompted thought when needed.  Thanks        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1casey_w_possible_nde.html