{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carson_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Carson D NDE 7511","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carson D NDE 7511  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carson D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3837 Carson D NDE 7511  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a latch-key kid and also the type that hated staying home.  I had been sick in bed with pneumonia, for a week. On Friday, my parents were at work. I decided enough was enough and headed off to school.  We lived in the country and my school was about a mile away. It was a gray overcast, rainy day.  I walked to school in my windbreaker and baseball cap.  By the time I got to school, I was soaked to the bone. I slid into class and, after about an hour, I felt really bad. By lunchtime, I decided to leave school to go home.   By the time I walked in the door, I was delirious. I walked out of my clothes and fell into bed.  I remember coughing and coughing, and feeling so, so sick.  I was so cold.  

Slowly everything went dark. I heard a roar of what sounded like an engine, and then there was nothing. I remember standing up and seeing my body lying in my bed. I felt very calm.  I turned to see my grandmother standing there in her pink dress.  I knew it wasn't her as she had passed away only months before. She smiled and held out her hand.  I took her hand and the next thing I knew I was flying and moving incredibly fast!  There were these beautiful beings all around me. I began to cry.  

One of them stopped me abruptly.  They all surrounded me; they were lovely and full of love. One reached out and touched my chest.  The touch was so warm that it seemed to smile. They talked to me without moving their mouths; I actually can't remember if they had mouths. They took me by the hands and we flew to a golden city that was surreal in color.  Another Being approached me who was different and older than the rest.  We talked for what seemed like forever.  Then the Being placed its hand on my shoulder and BAM! 

I was on an escalator in some shopping mall, to which I had never been.  I was on the up-escalator.  At the top of the escalator, waiting for me, were both of my deceased grandmas dressed in their Sunday best dresses. I remember their words as if this happened yesterday.  ’Well, little man, you have quite the journey ahead, but this is not your time’. They began to tell me things that would happen in my life, like the woman I would eventually meet, fall in love with, and marry.  They showed me the death of my cousin, and told me I must return to my body. Before I left, they said I would live a long and prosperous life, and then BOOM!  

I felt pain; I heard the sound of a thousand freight trains. I opened my eyes to see our next-door neighbor who was a nurse.  She was on the floor bent over me, with eyes full of tears.   She started crying.  I was very confused and embarrassed that I was lying there in only my underwear. 'Are you okay?' I asked.  She smiled and hugged me. Her husband came rushing into the room.  He looked gray and older.  About five minutes later, a fire truck and an ambulance arrived.  My mom and dad came home a short time after that.  

I found out later that the school had called my mom and asked why I went home.  She told them that I wasn't at school and that I was home sick still. She then called home and after I didn't answer she called the neighbor to check on me. When the neighbor came over, she found me. I was not breathing and did not have a heartbeat. She screamed for her husband and then started CPR (Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation). She said she worked on me for 10 minutes and was about to stop when I awoke.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Feb 9 1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function).   I stopped breathing and my heart stopped.  The neighbor did CPR on me to revive me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     At some points in time it seemed to fly by, but I remember everything in detail as if I studied everything. When I was talking to the one Being, I swear it felt like time stopped and only the two of us were moving.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My two grandmas, both whom had passed away before this experience

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     When I was with the Beings, it was a strange, yet beautiful world. The colors were so vibrant, almost living. The landscapes were alien, yet beautiful.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt love, wonder excitement, sorrow, and peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I was told things by my grandmas, most of which have come true.  I'm still waiting on some; the death of my cousin, including when that would happen.  I was told I would meet my wife, where she was from, and a very important detail about her past.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt when I came up the escalator to meet my grandmas I could not go beyond them even if I tried.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I am more spiritual, I belive in Christ but also belive in budah, Mohamed, et

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more spiritual, I don't attend church of any sort, but I have a deep connection to God. I wasn't scared of dying.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered several beings, humanoid but not.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Yes the one being that I talked with for so long that was differnt than the rest, I felt he was Jesus, but he did not,look how we see Jesus today.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I know there is a god,

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I know for a fact life goes on beyond. I have no fear of dieing.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Though the experience was life changing, about a year later, I started having night terrors and sleeping very badly. Thirty-six years later, I am still plagued by horrible nightmares. I have been to numerous sleep clinics and sleep studies. I sleep on average 4-5 hours a night.     Though the experience was life changing, about a year later, I started having night terrors and sleeping very badly. Thirty-six years later, I am still plagued by horrible nightmares. I have been to numerous sleep clinics and sleep studies. I sleep on average 4-5 hours a night.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have left out a lot about the experience, as it's very personal and hard to describe in words. To this day, I do not have any fears of dying. I know this world is not the end.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Quite often I travel in my dreams or nightmares.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    18 years later, I shared the experience with my wife.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I struggled with it for months, I still struggle with it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     With the help of my wife and knowing her past before she told me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The beings I encountered have come back to me many times in my dreams.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I lost awareness of my body.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carson_d_nde.html