{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 6892","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n3_apr_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N3 April 1884","mylang":"de"}
No. III.]

[APRIL,

1884:

JOURNAL
OF THE

SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICATl RESEA RCR.
CONTENTS.
PAGE

Meeting of Council .. . . .. . . . . . .
Members and A880ciates Elected during
.
March, 18114 . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
General Meeting
.• .. .. .. .• ..
Notices of Work done by the Committees

8S
84
86
39

I

PAO.

Mesmerism at the Royal Institution.. . .
On the Existence of a .. Magnetic Sense·
A Foreilln View of Psychical Research ..
A Rare Type of Telepathy . . •• . . . •
Supplementary Library Catalogue .. ••

40
41
"
46
4'1"

MEETING OF COUNCIL.
A Council Meeting was held on March the 28th, the President in
the chair, when Messrs. Walter R. Browne, Alexander Calder, Walter
H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney, C. C. Massey, F. W. H. Myers, E. R.
Pease, F. Podmore, H. A. Smith, J. Herbert Stack, and Dr. Wyld
were present.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Mr. G. F. Watts, R.A., was elected an Hon. Member.
Fifteen new Members and Associates were elected, whose names
and addresses will be found on another page.
A letter was read from the Rev. J. G. Everest desiring to resign as
a member of the Society.
The Conncil received with regret information of the death of Miss
Georgiana Houghton, an Associate of the Society.
It was agreed that it wonld be more convenient for the Jw/r!/,Q,Z to
be issued for the future about the middle of the month; and that the
regular Council Meetings should be held on the first Friday in each
month.
The date of the next "Occasional Meeting" was fixed for W ednes·
day, April 30th, at 4 p.m., at Queen Anne's Mansions.
A proposition by Professor Barrett that efforts should be made to
organise active interest in the work of the Society in various important
local centres was favourably entertained, and where such could be
advantageously undertaken, the Council would be disposed to aid in
regard to travelling expenses.
. The Council approved of an arrangement, which had been come
to with Dr. Stone, for taking certain rooms at 14, Dean's Yard, additional to those at present used by the Society, for a term of three years
from Lady Day, 1884-which additional rooms it is agreed to let to
Mr. Frank Podmore.
Various other matters of routine business were attended to; and it
was settled that the Society's rooms should be closed on Good Friday
and Easter Monday.
.
Digitized by

Google

34

J owrnal of Society for P8ychical Research.

[April, 1884.

ELECTIONS DURING MARCH, 1884.

HONORARY MEMBER.
WATTS, G. F., R.A., Little Holland House, London, W.
MEMBERS.
MANDERS, H., F.R.C.S., Agincourt House, Yorktown, Farnborough
Station, Hants.
SINGLETON, MRS., 8, Prince's Gate, London, S.W.
ASSOCIATES.
BRYCE, MISS, 35, Bryanston Square, London, W.
DICKINSON, HERBERT YOUNG, 52, Eastbourne Terrace, London, W.
GOODMAN, ROGER N., B.A., B.Sc., St. John's College, Cambridge.
HANSFORD, CHARLES, 3, Alexandra Terrace, Dorchester.
HOGG, ROBERT W., B.A., St. John's College, Cambridge.
KENNY, COURTNEY S., LL.M., Downing College, Cambridge.
MATHEWS, GEORGE B., B.A., St. John's College, Cambridge.
MYLNE, JULIET, MRS., 22, Gloucester Place, Hyde Park, London, W.
PODMORE, AUSTIN, 14, Dean's Yard, Westminster, S.W.
POLLOCK, DIGHTON NICOLAS, King's College, Cambridge.
SANDARS, MISS, Lower Soughton, N orthop, Flintshire.
STOUT, GEORGE F., B.A., St. John's College, Cambridge.
WHISHAW, BERNHARD, B.A., 17, Mount Road, Liscard, Birkenhead.

April, 1884.]

Journal of Society fOT P8ychical Re8ea<rch.

35

GENERAL MEETING.
The seventh general meeting of the Society was held at the
Garden Mansion, Queen Anne's Gate, on Friday, the 28th of March.
Professor Sidgwick took the chair at 8.30 p.m.
The proceedings opened with t he Second Repurt of the Committee on
Haunted HO'USBS, read by Mr. E. R. Pease. The following is an
abstract:In the year that has elapsed since our last report we have been
mainly occupied in collecting and sifting evidence, and for the present
we are not prepared to attempt anything more than this. Our subject
is obscure and difficult, and a much larger mass of evidence is necessary
before we begin to theorise. We can, however, safely say that we are
not investigating fables, but examining facts. The evidence already
collected justifies this statement, and this only.
We have again to point out how difficult it is for us to obtain
personal observations in haunted houses. This is partly due to the
prejudices of their owners, but in a larger measure to the rarity and
irregularity of the phenomena even in houses where we have good
evidence of their occurrence. We would earnestly entreat our members
a.nd friends who are so fortunate as to inhabit haunted houses, to afford
us an opportunity of visiting them. It may be that we are not likely
to see or hear anything abnormal. But we are willing to incur much
trouble and expense for the chance.
Weare obliged, therefore, to confine ourselves in the main to the
testimony (not necessarily of small value) of those persons who are so
fortunate as to have had abnormal experiences of this class.
We have made an analysis of 65 stories printed as provisionally
complete. Of these we class 28 as A stories, because we regard the
evidence as clear and strong, and the witnesses as worthy of credence.
All these accounts have been of course received from the actual witnesses of the occurrence, who in most cases are known personally to
some of us. There are good reasons why women should be our most
frequent witnesses. But for these 28 stories we have testimony from
14 men, as well as from 26 women. Of these stories 24 record
the appearance of figures and four record noises only. The reverse
of this proportion obtains amongst the stories as a whole, but it is
obvious that figures can be easily and clearly described, whilst it is
generally impossible to prove that noises are not caused by rats,
wind, or a dozen other things. Excluding the four stories of noises
only, a.nd five other stories of an exceptional character, we have left
19 A stories, which all approximate to a certain type.
Digitized by

Google

36

JOUT'1W.l of Society for Psychical Re8ea,·ck.

[April, 1884.

Magazine ghost.stories generally present sensational features, which
are very rarely found in stories which reach us on good authority. The
normal type of phantom may be recognised by the absence, as well as
by the presence, of certain characteristics. To begin with, sensational
features are extremely rare. Then again, these appearances scarcely
ever bear any relation to a special time of the day or the year. In
none of the 19 cases above mentioned do we find any such relation.
In 8 of them we have only one recorded appearance; and in other
cases where there have been several appearances, these have been
spread over the course of many years. Another characteristic common
in the 19 selected cases is the apparently casual and objectless nature
of the apparition. A figure is seen which has no appearance of life,
and which resembles closely the image thrown by a magic lantern.
Sometimes the appearance is described as life-like: sometimes it is
recognised at once as a phantom. Sometimes it is shadowy, but more
often the dress is seen distinctly, and is described as that worn by
living persons in recent times.
The above generalisations are professedly made from 19 cases only,
but in reality they are drawn from our knowledge of the whole
mass of evidence in our possession. When stories differ widely from
the type here indicated, we usually find that the evidence for them is
weak. Weare not prepared to affirm that all exceptional stories are
unworthy of credence. But we are inclined to believe that a larger
collection of material and a more careful study of it will, before long,
enable us to lay down with greater certainty and precision the laws of
the occurrence of these phenomena.
We have not used the word "ghost" because it might be thought
to countenance the idea that these phenomena are due to the presence
of departed spirits. We must repeat that for the present we absolutely
decline to theorise.
After the conclusion of this paper the President made some
remarks on the importance of pursuing the inquiry into haunted
He said that the
houses in an experimental way, if possible.
difficulties in the way of such experiments, if they were to be conducted under satisfactory conditions, were very great.
If the
Committee were asked, "Why do you not go down to a haunted
house, and put the ghost under strict test conditions1" their answer
was, firstly, that invitations to haunted houses were very rarely
obtainable. Few owners will admit the existence of such opportunities
in connection with their property; few tenants communicate their
experiences till they are over. And they answered, secondly, that
Digitized by

Google

A.pril, 1884.]

Journal of Society for Psychical Reseal·ch.

31"

from the evidence before them, fixed times for ghostly appearances
could very rarely be determined; in most cases, if the investigation
was to be carried on with any hope of success, the house must be
continuously inhabited, and the members of the Committee were not
in a position to avail themselves of any opportunities that might be
presented for inhabiting continuously any such house. Under these
Circumstances, they would be very glad to receive communications
from any member of the Society who might be in a position to assist in
their investigation by continuously inhabiting any such house. If such
an arrangement could be made, it would be fair, of course, that the
Society should pay a share of the rent, in consideration of the opportunities of systematic investigation that would be secured to the Committee; and funds had, in fact, been placed in the hands of the Committee
for this purpose. If anyone present should find himself disposed, or
should hear of anyone disposed, to enter into an arrangement of this
kind, he hoped that a communication would be sent to the Hon. Secretary, at 14, Dean's Yard. The President concluded by expressing his
conviction that it would be irrational for anyone who, like himself, had a
thorough knowledge of their experiments in Thought-transference, and
of the whole mass of testimony they had collected in respect of the
" telepathic" experiences of others, to suspend his judgment any longer
on the general question as to the reality of such experiences; however
strongly he still felt the need of further experimental and other evidence
to convince the world. But, as regards the much more difficult question
of the alleged manifestations of intelligences other than living human
beings, the Society had been able to do much less; the difficulties
here of obtaining conclusive evidence were much greater, and, for his
own part, he was unable to come to any decision as to the causes of
the facts brought before them. He felt, therefore, the importance of
vigorously prosecuting the inquiry in any available way.
The proceedings terminated with the Third Report of the Literary
Committee, read by Mr. F. W. H. Myers. The Report comprised the
first instalment of a "Theory of Apparitions," dealing with the subject
of death wraiths. The paper began with a discussion of the various
a priori objections to the existence of veridical haUucinations,-that is,
of appearances which are haUucinations in the sense that they repre"
sent some figure which has no known objective existence, but which
are, nevertheless, veridical or truth-telling, because there is in fact
an objective event (such as the death of a friend at a distance) to
which these hallucinations correspond. The need of the census of
hallucinations which the Society has set on foot was next explained;
Digitized by

Google

38

J oumal oj Society JOT Psychical Research.

[April, 1884.

inasmuch as it is only by discovering what is the frequency of mere
morbid or deceptive hallucinations, that we can accurately decide on
the degree of improbability of the chance coincidence of one of these
morbid hallucinations with some objective event (death or accident), of
which it seems to be in some way the reflection.
It was then urged that these veridical hallucinations are (many of
them, at least) the manifestation on a large scale of the same kind of
"telepathic" impression which is exhibited on a small scale in the
Society's experiments on the transference of thoughts, images, pains,
tastes, &c.
Taking the familiar fourfold division of mental faculties into the
emotions, the will, the senses, and the intellect, the connection between
the eqJerimental and the spontaneuus cases was shown under each of
these headings, with illustrative narratives. It was seen that almost
each species of the recorded experiments in Thought-transference may
be regarded as the germinal form of psychical occurrences which arise
spontaneously on a much larger scale, and bear to the minute experiments something the same relation as tho lightning bears to the electric
sparks developed in the lecture-room.
The paper dealt throughout with impreSl!ions transferred from
living persons only (including those of persons at the moment of
death); and among such impressions, those of a visual kind-the fully
doveloped or externalised phantoms commonly called apparitions or
deatMuraiths-were expressly postponed, as forming a separate group
which requires some expansion of tho theory of telepathy. This group
will, it is hoped, be discussed in a further Report to be presented to
the next General Meeting.

Digitized by

Google

April. 1884.]

Journal Of Society for Psychical Research.

3t

NOTICES OF' WORK DONE BY THE COMMITTEES.
The Literary Committee held ten meetings in the course of March,
for discussion of the evidence of "Phantasms of the Living," many
additional narratives having been received during the month.
The Hon. Secs. also prepared a Report, which was read by Mr.
Myers at the General Meeting on March 28th, forming the third
Report of the Committee. An abstract of this paper is given in our
account of the meeting. The paper itself will appear, with considerable additions, in Part VI. of the Proceedings.

The Thought-Transference Committee has not been engaged in any
experimental work during the past month, but has been preparing for
press its last Report, which will be in the hands of our Members
almost immediately.
The Reichenbach and the Mesmeric Committees have nothing to
report. The latter Committee have made arrangements for an important series of experiments during April, and we hope they may be
successful.
The Committee on Physical Phenomena have not sent in any official
report: but we are informed that two members of the Committee have
been engaged in the investigation of a singular case at Arundel, much
resembling the Wem phenomena in Shropshire, the Report of which
was published in our last number. Major Taylor's Report of the
Arundel ease we hope will be given in the next number of the JournaL

Weare requested to state that the addreBB of Mr. F. Podmore, the
Hon. Sec. of the Mesmeric Committee; is now 14, Dean's Yard, S.W.

Digitized by

Google

JO'Urnal oj Society j()l1' P8ychical Research.

(April, 1884.

MESMERISM AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.

On the evening of Friday, March 24th, Mr. J. N. Langley, F.R.S.,
gave a lecture at the Royal Institution, London, on "The Physiological
Aspect of Mesmerism." He began by explaining that by mesmerism
he meant hYJf1Wtism; expressing a wish that the former word could be
confined to those "magical" phenomena which science has not yet
accepted, and which he himself held not to be proved. He proceeded to
aescribe the most striking feature of the hypnotic state, the paralysis of
the will-of the power which selects and controls action. This directive
power being suspended, stimulation of the sensory nerves is apt to
produce a purely reflex or mechanical movement. The mechanism of
"reflex action" was here explained by means of a diagram, and illustrated by an amusing anecdote in which the lecturer, in a fit of absence,
had turned a tap of water into his pipe. If no external stimulation be
applied, an animal, whose will has been hypnotically suspended, will be
passive for a time, sometimes even for many hours, without making
any attempt to move. This state of passivity was exhibited in the
case of a frog and of an alligator, whose natural activity was completely
suspended for a minute or so, after a short course of manipulation,
which gently repressed all attempts at movement. The lecturer
pointed out that this loss of directive and initiative power implied
that the normal activity of the cortical portion of the brain was in
some way inhibited, and that the keynote of hypnotism is to be found
in inhibition. He admitted, however, that the nervous processes involved in inhibition are as yet very little understood. It is, of course,
a similar inhibitory process which produces hypnotic loss of sensation,
the normal activity in the brain failing to be worked by stimuli applied
to the surface of the body. The lecturer concluded by admitting that
the genuine phenomena of hypnotism had been unduly neglected
during a large part of the present century; but he thought that this
neglect was susceptible of defence, on the ground that the theories
adduced to explain the alleged facts had been absurd and impossible,
and that scientific investigation might well be excused for considering
that the facts were on a par with the theories.
The lecture was a very clear and interesting account of some of the
more salient facts. of hypnotism; and the lecturer showed good sense in
recognising-as Mr. Romanes has done before him-that we are still
only on the threshold of the subject, and that the problem merely
takes another form when we ask, what is the real nature and process
of inhibition 1 But it would not have been amiss, we think, if Mr.
Langley had noticed some of the more obvious difficulties which seem
to meet us equally, whatever special form of the hypnotic theory we
adopt,-for instance, the extraordinary differences which persons
otherwise alike present in amount of capacity to produce in others
the characteristic effects.

Digitized by

Google

Ayril, 1884.]

Jou?'1lal Of SoC'iety 1m' P8ychical Re8earch.

41

ON THE EXISTENCE OF A "MAGNETIC SENSE."
The following letter, in an uncorrected form, appeared in Nature
for March 20th. The letter is here given with one or two slight
modifications which were made in the corrected proof:Sir William Thomson, in his presidential address at the Midland Institute, which is reported in Nature for March 6th (p. 438), draws attention to
the" marvellous fact" that hitherto we have no evidence to show that even
the most powerful electroIDa<rnets can produce the sli~htest effect upon a
living vegetable or animal b~y. But Sir William" thmks it possible that
an exceedingly powerful magnetic effect may produce a sensation that we
cannot compare with heat, or force, or any other sensation," and hence he
cannot admit that the investigation of this question is completed,-for
although the two eminent experimenters named by Sir W. Thomson felt
nothing when they put their heads between the poles of a powerful electromagnet, it does not follow that, therefore, every member of the human race
would feel nothing.
May I be permitted to point out that some slight evidence already exists
in the direction sought by Sir W. Thomson 1 Scattered in different publications there are Ilumerous statements made by different observers in different
countries during the present century, which, if trustworthy, iudicate that
upon certain human organisms a powerful magnet noes produce a very
distinct and often profound effect. Unfortunately, with the exception of
the careful and excellent observations made by Dr. W. H. Stone, who tried
Charcot's experiments 011 a patient of his at St. Thomas's Hospital, the
observations referred to are, for the most part, singularly wanting in precisiOli of statement and in a due recognition of the precautions needful in
order to avoid fallacious or ambiguous results from illusions of the senses.*
This being the case, an attempt is being made by the Society for Psychical
Research to ascertain-by direct and careful experiment, extl'nding over a
wide range of indivilluals-whether any trustworthy evidence really exists
on beh"alf of a distinct magnetic seuse. The sectional committee of that
society intrusted with this allli cognate work has published a preliminary
report,t which contains a fragment of evidence pointing ill the direction of
the existence of a magnetic seuse in certain individuals. Three persons have
been found by the committee, who, when their heans were placed near the
poles of a powerful electromagnet, could tell by tlleir sensatiolJs whether the
magnet was excited or not. One of these" sensitives" told the investigating
committee, accurately, 21 times running, whether the current was" on" or
"off," owing, as he alleges, to a peculiar and unpleasant sensation that he
experienced ItCrOS8 his forehead. Every precaution that suggested its.. lf was
taken to prevent the subjects gaining any information, through the ordinary
channels of sensation, of what was being done at the contact-breaker placed
in another room. But I am sUle the committee will gratefully welcome any
criticisms of their procedure or suggestions for future experiments which
Sir William Thomson may feel inclined to give. The honoraJ'y secretary of
the committee is Mr. W. H. Coffin, Cornwall Gardens, S.W.
Two or three months ago one of the gentlemen who appeal'ed to have
this magnetic sense was in Dublin, and I took the opportunity of repeating
with care in my own laboratory the experiments previously made at the
Society's rooms in London. The result satisfied me that this individual did,
in general, experience a peculiar sensation, which he describes as unpleasant,
when his head was within the field of a powerful magnet. Nevertheless, the

* [Dr. Stone's experiment will be quoted in the forthcoming number of the
.. Proceedings" of the S.P.R.]
t Proceed,i'll{/' of the Society for PsychicaZ Researc/t, Part 3. (Triibner and Co.)
Digitized by

Google

402

Journal of Society fm' Psychical Research.

[April, 181!'_

keenness of his magnetic sense, if snch it be, varied considerably on different
days, and sometimes he stated that he could detect little or no sensory effect.
Usually the effect was felt most strongly when the forehead was in the line
joining the two poles; but one day, when he was suffering from facial
neuralgia, he found that his face was the most sensitive part, and complained of a sudden increase of pain whenever the magnet WHS excited, his
face being near the poles.
The peculiar and unpleatl8nt sensation which the magnet appeared to
produce on the subject just referred to was described as slowly rising to a
maximum in 15 or 20 seconds a.fter the current had beeu sent round the
coils of the electromagnet. In like manner the etf~ct seemed to die down
slowly after the contact was broken. Unknown to the subject, the circuit
was closed and opened several times, and the magnetism correspondingly
evoked or dissipated, the result being that there seemed to be a fairly accu!'ate correspondence between the physical and the psychical effects. The
faint molecular crepitation which accompanies the IIlagnetisation of iron, and
can be heard when the ear is very near the magnet, is, however, very apt to
mislpad the imagination. To avoid this, the subject was placed at a distance
where this faint !<ound could not be heard, and he was then requested to
walk up to the electromagnet, and, judging only from his sensations, to state
if the current were "on" or "off." The experiment was made 12 times
successively, and he was correct in 10 out of the 12 trials. He had no
means of seeing or hearing the contact breaker, nor of surreptitiously
finding out when the magnet was made; of course, it is possible for a
trickster, using a concealed compass-needle, to be able to impose on a
careless experimt'nter, but care was taken, and I have not the least reason
to doubt the entire bonajides of the subject of this exreriment. Nevertheless, in view of the fact that the general experience, 0 competent observers
is entirely negative all to any special sensory effect produced by magnetism,
I do not pretend that the foregoing observations are to be regarded as
conclusive. They simply suggest the desirability of a far more extensive
series of experiments, conducted with the most stringent precautions to
avoid the creation of illusory effects.
I have tried experiments with large helices encircling the limbs and head,
and animated by powerful currents, but have not observed any peculiar >lensory effect in my own case, though I am inclined to think the headache
which I have often experienced when working for some time with a large
magnet may not be altogether an accidental coincidence. Meanwhile experiments are in progress in my laboratory to ascertain, if possible, whether
any distinctive effect is produced by a powerful magnetic field upon lower
organisms. I hardly anticipate any affirmative results, but it seemed worth
making a systematic investigation from minute 8tructures up to man. Sir
W. Thomson's address will, I hope, stimulate other workers in this field.

W. F. BARRETT.
Royal College of Science, Dublin, March 11th.

In connection with this subject, it may be of interest to
note the idiosyncrasies of some individuals, who affirm that they
Can only sleep well when their bed is in a definite direction with
regard to the magnetic meridian. Dr. W. H. Stone has mentioned *
his own inability to sleep soundly in a north and south position.
* Report. of St. Thomas' Hospital, Vol. X., 1880. The following is the passage:"One or two rather trivial facts, such as the inability of many persons of nervoUH
temperament, of whom the writer i. one. to sleep soundly in the north and south
position, a position obviously forced for a diamagnet such as the human body. and
the singular vitality of magnetic treatment from very early times down to the present.

Digitized by

Coog

April, 1884.]

Journal of Society for Psychical Research.

43

Baron Reichenbach, however, states that in the sensitive temperaments
he examined he invariably found that the most refreshing sleep was
obtained when the head was to the north and the feet to the south,
positive discomfort being experienced by several of his subjects when
the east and west position was assumed. Among other cases the
Baron mentions that of a Miss Sturmann, a patient in one of the
hospitals at Vienna, who enjoyed "a night of unusually peaceful sleep
such as she had not experienced for a long time," together with other
favourable symptoms, when her bed was moved with its head to the
north. The same patient when in this position appeared to be wonderfully sensitive to the magnet. At the whole length of the ward, a
distance of some thirty feet from her bed, the Baron states that the
removal of the keeper from a powerful magnet he had brought caused
her to become unconscious :-" She stopped speaking in the middle of
a word that was on her tongue; she had half said it, the rest died
away on her lips. I found her lying rigid with spasms and with
clenched hands, her eyes open and cast upwards, so unconscious that
I could place my fingers on her eyeballs without the lids moving."
The experiment was tried three times with exactly the same results.
Such extreme susceptibility is doubtless rare, but it ought surely
to be possible to ascertain if Baron Reichenbach was or was not mistaken in the conclusions he drew from his experiments. The effect of
the imagination is so powerful that it will be difficult, if not impossible,
to devise any experiments that will exclude its influence, and unless
this is done no conclusions can safely be drawn. We shall be glad,
nevertheless, if our readers will communicate to us any experience they
may have had which seem to bear on this question.
Many years before Reichenbach's time the sensory effect of a
magnet and the so-called magnetic light appear to have been noticed.
Mr. E. T ..Bennett has disinterred the following extract, which he has
been good enough to translate from the" Tagebuch einer Magnetischen
Behandlung," by P. G. van Ghert, Secretary of the Ducal Mineralogical Society, at Jena, in Holland, and member of several learned
societies.

*

*

"1810. October 15th.-To-day, when I arranged some exreriments with
the magnet, while the patient was in a room upstairs, and was below, so
that she could not see what I did, she immediately came down, and said that
she did not know what was the matter with her, but that it was impossible
for her to resist the influence.
I put her to sleep in the usual manner. . . . . I held the magnet a
few inches from her knee, but she immediately besought me to take it
away. I requested her to touch it with her hands. At first she would not
do this, but finally took hold of it, aud held it for a considerable time in her
hand without experiencing any inconvenience. I made passes with it from
are hardly strong enough to countervail the negative evidence here adduced. Still
the subject, not being in direct contravention of any known scientific proofs, deserves
further investigation in a fair and dispassionate spirit. It seems primd facie improbable that so important a factor in cosmogony should be otiose and inefficacious in
its highest development-human life."

Digitized by

Coog

44

J oU'1'nal of Society for Psychical Resem·ch.

[April, 1884.

the head to the knee, which produced a strong intluence. She Mid she saw a
blue glow proceed from it, which penetrated into herself. I made passes over
her hand with the north pole, which she could bear very well. I then brought
the south pole over the same spot, which did not produce any different influence
from the north pole. But at the distance of about a foot-and-a-half, she saw
a glow proceed from the part of the hand where the passes had been made to
the south pole only. When I placed the ma~net in her hand, and held a
piece of steel before it, she Msured me that It produced a much stronger
mfluence, and said :-' A stream goes from the magnet to the steel, which
looks exactly like a rainbow, except that the colours are not so bright.'''

•

•

*

*

*

From "Archiv fiir den Thierischen Magnetismus. Herausgegehen, von Dr. C. Avon Eschenmayer, Dr. D. G. Kieser, und Dr. F. N&8se." Li~pzig, 1811. Zweiter
Band. Zweites Stiick; pp. 35, 36.

A FOREIGN VIEW OF PSYUHICAL RESEARCH.
The following extract from a recent article in the well-known
Austrian paper, the" Allgemeine Zeitung," will be read with interest as
indicative of the attitude which many of the more thoughtful leaders of
public opinion are now taking towards "Psychical Research" : " It has at all times been the fault of every dominant intellectual tendency
that it denoullces not only theories, but even facta opposed to it, and designates as false and impossible whatever cannot be brought into harmony with
its own cOllceptions. That this has heen the case with religion does not
need to be pointed out. Bnt the same theoretical intolerance has been
manifested in a high degree on behalf of prevalent scientific doctrines. The
heretical assertors of fnets at variance with these preconceptious have not,
indeed, beeu burnt, but they have been too often exposed to ridicule and
contempt. We need only remind ourselves of the denial of aerolites towards
the end of the last century, when those who believed tliat bodies could fall
from the sky were looked upon as fools. It was said to be 'impossible,' to
be a 'contradiction of the laws of science,' Hnd anyone believing in Stich a
contradiction was either out of his mind, or at least could not be considered
a person of any scientific competence. And similarly of a whole 8uccession
of facts. Our orthodox culture is a great deal too ready with the phrases
'impossible' and' opposition to the law8 of nature.' When closely examined,
it usually tUI'DS out that this 'impossibility' is nothing else tha.n incomprehensibility, and the imaginary breach of the laws of nature is only ignorance
of the laws by which the fact in question is to be explained.
"Now it seems that underlying the phenomena of Spiritism, such as
clairvoyance, table-turning, spirit-rapping, and all the rest, there are real
facts which do not admit of complete explana.tion by our present knowledge.
Frauds and mistakes are mixed up with these facts; but it would not be too
difficult to distinguish the true from the false were it not for the misfortune
that orthodox science will not approach the investigation of the facts, but
contents it.self with flatly denying them. The consequence is that persons
who, either accidentally or impelled by the spirit of inquiry, have become
immovably convinced of the truth of some of these phenomena, too ea.sil,
tend to an uncritical acceptance of all or most of what is alleged on this
subject in opposition to the dominant culture.
* .". * *
"In our opinion, the Spiritist superstition will only come to an end
when exact sCIence will take the trouble to examine without prejudice the
facts which it has hitherto distinctly denied; that is to say, will approach
them with the admission that things are not necessarily untrue because
ullexplained."

Digitized by

Google

April, 1884.]

Journal of Society for Psychical Research.

45

A RARE TYPE OF TELEPATHY.
The following very intereRting narrative has recently been communicated to the Literary Committee. It is possibly no more than a
very striking case of Thought-transference in sleep-the dream of one
person exciting a corresponding dream in another. But Miss E.'s
experience seems very unlike a dream; and the incident was more
proba.bly an example of <waking telepathic transference, Miss C. S. B.
being the "agent" and Miss E. the "percipient." In the immense
number of telepathic cases which the Literary Committee have collected, only very few belong to this type, where the "agent" is asleep,
and the "percipient" awake. Similar instances would therefore be
specially welcome.
The following letter is from Miss C. S. B., 74, Lancaster Gate, W.
On June 10th, I had the following dream. Some one told me that
Miss E. was dead. I instantly, in my dream, rushed to her room,
entered it, went to her bedside and pulled the clothes from oft' her face.
She was quite cold; her eyes were wide open and staring at the ceiling.
This so frightened me that I dropped at the foot of her bed, and knew
no more until I was half out of bed in my own room and wide awake.
The time was 5 o'clock a.m. Before leaving my room I told this
dream to my sister, as it had been such an unpleasant one.-C. S. B.
Felwuary 18th, 1884.

The next account is from Miss E., 74, Lancaster Gate, W.
I awoke on the morning of June 10th, and was lying on my back
with my eyes fixed on the ceiling, when I heard the door open and
felt some one come in and bend over me, but not far enough to come
between my eyes and the ceiling; knowing it was only C. I did not.
move, but, instead of kissing me, she suddenly drew back and going
towards the foot of the bed, crouched down there. Thinking this very
strange, I closed and opened my eyes several times, to convince myself
that I was really awake, and then turned my head to see if she had left
the door open, but fonnd it still shut. Upon this a sort of horror came
over me and I dared not look towards the figure which was crouching
in the same position, gently moving the bedclothes from my feet. I
tried to call to the occupant of the next room, but my voice failed. At
this moment she touched my bare foot, a cold chill ran all over me and
I knew nothing more till I found myself out of bed looking for C., whomust, I felt, be still in the room. I never doubted that she had really
been there until I saw both doors fastened on the inside. On looking
at my watch it was a few minutes past 5.-K.E.
The following are from Miss C. S. B.'s sisters.
Before leaving our room, my sister C. told all about the dream she
had had in the early morning.-C. E. B.
The first thing in the morning, Miss E. told me all about her
unpleasant dream, before speaking to anyone else.-A. B.
In answer to inquiries, Miss C. S. B. says:This is the first experience I have ever had of the kind, and I have
not walked in my sleep more than three times in my life; the last time
Digitized by

Google

406

Journal 0/ Society /0'1' Psychical Research.

[April, 1884.

was about a year ago; on no occasion have I left the room. I do not
have startling or vivid dreams as a rule. I did not look at my watch
after waking, but the clock struck 5 o'clock.
In answer to inquiries, Mi88 E. says:Although I am &eeustomed to have very vivid dreams, I have never
had one of this kind before. When I found my friend was not in the
room, and that the doors were securely fastened on the inside, I looked
at my watch; it was a few minutes past 5.
I have never, I believe, walked in my sleep. There are two doors
to my bedroom. One was locked on the inside; the handle was broken
oft' the other on the outside. Thus it was impoBBible for anyone to
open it except from the inside.-K. E.
One of the Secretaries of the Literary Committee has carefully
examined the doors. The handle of one of them was loose at the time
of the incident, and had fallen oft' onto the floor outside when someone
left the room overnight. Miss E. heard it fall, and saw it on the floor
when she left her room in the morning. To readjust it, so as to open
the door, required great care and accuracy; and the hypothesis that
Miss C. S. B. really entered the room in a sleep-walking fit would
involve the supposition that she picked up the fallen handle, went
through this delicate proce88, subsequently, on leaving the room, shut
the door so carefully as not to disturb the handle (which, had it fallen,
would probably have startled both herself and Miss E. into complete
wakefulness), and then took it oft' and placed it on the floor again It
may be added that in her few experiences of sleep-walking, Miss C. S. B.
has never made the slightest attempt to leave her room; and that on
this night she was sleeping in the same room as a sister, who is a very
light sleeper, and who would almost certainly have been awakened by
the opening of the door.

Digitized by

Google

April, 1884.]

Journal 0/ Society /01' P8ychical Research.

47

SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
'l'IIe followin.fJ addition, kave been made during March, 1884.)
(A few of these are duplicate copies of works previously in the Library.)
[R] indicatell tkat the book is for reference only.

ACCOUNT OF A STRANGE AND DREADFUL ApPARITION AT SEA •.. Londo-n, 1627
ANGELIC REVELATIONS, concerning the Origin, Ultimation, and Destiny
of the Human Spirit, 4 voL .................•............... .. London, 1875-83*
BLAIR (Mrs.) Dreams and Dreaming. With an Introductory EBSaY by
the Rev. Samuel Blair .....................•.....•.............•.... Londo'll, N.D.
BLAVATSKY (H. P.) Isis Unveiled ........•.•.......•.......••....... NtJ1IJ York, 1877
BRITTEN (Emma Hardinge) Nineteenth Century Miracles .•.... Londoo, 1884
CARPENTER (William B., M.D., F.R.S., &c.) Mesmerism, Spiritualism,
&c., Historically and Scientifically cOllsidered .......•...... .. London, 1877
CLAIRVOYANCY, Miud Reading, Psychomanc.v and Soul·Charming:
How to become a good Clairvoyant .................... ..... Manchelter, N.D.
Cox (Edward W.) The Mechanism of Man. An Answer to the Question, What Am 11 Vol. I. ........................................ LO'IIdon, 1876
GLANVIL (Joseph) Saducismus Triumphatus, 4th edit.••.••.••.•.. London, 1726
HEATON (James) The Extraordinary Affliction and Gracious Relief of
a little Boy, supposed to be the etf'ects of Spiritual Agency,
Plymouth, 1822
[R] NARRATIVE OF ASTONISHING TRANSACTIONS at Stockwell, in Surrey,
in 1772 ................................................................. .LondO'll, 1772
RoMANES (J. G., F.R.S.) Mental Evolution in Animals ........ .. London, 1883
SERVICE OF SUFFERING (A); or, Lessons from the Biography of Mrs.
Croad. Compiled by J. G. Westlake, 2nd edit................ London, N.D.t
[&] PAMPHLETS, English, Vol. 1.Alderson (John, M.D.) An Essay on Apparitions ...................... London, 1823
Asbburner (John. M.D.) Facts in Clairvoyance... ............... ...London. 1848§
Colley (Rev. Thomas. M.A.) Later Phases of Materialisation ...... London, 1877:1:
Collyer (Robert H .• M.D.) Psychography ......................... Phi1.cuJ.elpllia. 1843
Collyer (R. H .• M.D.) Automatic Writing. The Slade Persecution. London. 187S:::
Crookes (W.• F.R.S.) Psychic Force and Modern Spiritualism .... London. 1872§
Howitt (A. W .• F.G.S.) On Some Australian Beliefs ................. London, 1ss;J1I
Isham (Sir Chas.. Bart.) The Barby Apparition ................ Northampton. 1867:1:
King (George) Experiments with Dr. Slade. (Privately printed) ............ 1876:1:
Lane (Charles) The Law and Method of Spirit·Culture ............... BoBton. 18431
M.A.(Oxon.) The Slade Case ................................................. London. 1877:1:
Ruskin (John. LL.D.) Fors Clavigera. Letter 63rd ...... ........... Londrm, 187S:::
Wilson (John, M.D.) Trials of Animal Magnetism ..................... London. 1839:1:

[R] PAMPHLETS, English, Vol. 11.Edmonds (Judge) Spiritual Tracts ................................ ...... New York. 1858t
GUPPl (Samuel) Imitations of Spiritual Phenomena ........... ...... London. 1873:1:
Hall (Spencer T.) Mesmeric Experiences ................................ .. Londrm, 18~5§
Iota, Maskelyne and Cooke: An Expose ............................. ... Londoo. 1873:1:
M.A.(Oxon.) Spiritualism at the Church Congress ..................... London. 1881:1:
Stone (G. W.) Electro-Biology .. .......................................... Liverpool. 1850§
Wallace (A. R.) The Scientific Aspect of the Supernatural ......... London, 1866:1:
Zerffi (G. G.• Ph.D.) Dreams and Ghosts ....................... ......... London. 1875:1:

[R] PAMPHLETS, English, Vol. 111.All the Year Round. (The monthly part containing Mr. Heaphy's
Narrative) ............................................... ..................... Ltmdon. 1861:1:
Dixon (J.• L. S.A.L.) Clairvoyance, Hygienic and Medical. 2nd ed. Lomian, N.D.§
* Presented by Mr. William Oxley.

t Presented by the Rev. W. Whltear.
• Presented by Mr. E. T. Bennett.
II Presented by Mrs. A. M. H. Watts.

t Presented by Mr. F. W. H. Myers.

Digitized by

Google

48

Journal of Society for Psychical Research.

[April, 1884.

BAILLARGER (M. J.) Hallucinatiolls ............................. ........... Pam, 1846
CHARPIGNON (.J.) Physiologie, Medecine et Metaphysique du Magnetillme
Pam, 1848
DUFRESNOY (M. l'Abbe Lenglet) Recuail de Dissertations; Anciennes
et Nouvelles, sur les Apparitions, les Visions et lee Songes, 2 vol.
Pam, 1752
MEMOIRES pour servir A I'Histoire et al'Etablissement du Magnetisme
Anilllal (2 vol. ill one) 2nd edit . ... ..........................~ ......... Pam, 1809
PuEL (T.) De Ja eatalepsie ............................................... ..... Pam, 1856
REVUE MAGNETIQUE, Vol. I. ........... ......................................Pam, 1884
ARCH IV FUR DEN THIERISCHEN MAGNETISMUS, 6 vol. ......•.• Leipzig, 1817-1820
HORST (Georg Conrad) Del1teroskopie, 2 vol.. ....... . }i}ankfUl·t am Main, 1830
GEISTERN UND GEISTERSEHERN (Von) .................................... Leipzig, 1780
KERNER (Justinus) Geschichten Besessener Neuerer Zeit ...... Stiittgart, 1834

[R] PAMPHLETS, Germall, Vol. 1.EnnemollE!r (Dr. Joseph) Untersuchungen iiber den Ursprung und das
Wesen der Menschlichen Seele .................... .................. Stiittga1·t, 1851
Leubuscher (Rud) Ueber die Entstehung der Sinnestii.uschung ....... Berlin, 1852
SChllbert (Dr. G. H. Von) Ul!ber Ahnen und WiBBen ............... ... Munich, 1841
Siebeck (Prof. H.) Das Traumleben dar Seele ..................... ......... Bt'I'lin, 1871
Wundt (Prof. W.) Der Spiritismus ........................................... Leipzig, 1819

[R] PAMPHLETS, German, Vol. n.-Baader (F"anz) Eine Geisterscheinung .................................. .. Miimter, 1833
Clemens (lk A.) Dlls Ferogefuhl ........................... Frankjurt am Main, 1851
Hoffmann (Dr. Heinrich) Die Physiologie der Sinnes-Hallucinationen
Frat&kfttrt am Main, 1851
Leben (Dasl und ner Tod ........................................ ............... .Leiprig, 1850
Scherer (Friedrich) Das WRlten von Wahrheit und Wahn
(1m SelbBtt1erlage de. Verj_.) N.D.
Wegners (Georg Wilhelm) Abhandlung von Gespenstem ............... Berlin. 1741
Wellmer (Meta) Geistergeschichten .................................... Nordhauam, 1815

Digitized by

Google

