{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carolle_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Carolle S NDE 1019","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carolle S NDE 1019  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carolle S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						449  Carolle S NDE  1019  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was with my aunt in the Pacific Ocean.  I was on an inner tube and she was pushing me out until the water came to her neck.  When she went to turn around and head back to shore, a wave picked up the tube and dumped me to the bottom.  She kept reaching for me but couldn't find me.  I just sat on the bottom and my short life started going before my eyes.  Birthday parties, Christmas - mostly good memories, I don't remember any bad memories at that time.  My aunt finally found me and when she touched me, the memories stopped.  She pulled me up by my hair and she was crying.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1947

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Threat from drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see myself from above and a little behind.  So I was looking at the crown of my head and watching my hair float around.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very alert and conscious the whole time.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I remember a roaring sound, but at the time I thought it was the ocean.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The tunnel came before me when the memories were coming to an end.  At that time, my aunt reached me and I didn't enter the tunnel, but I saw it.  By the way, the memories were in chronological sequence, so I knew when they were going to stop because they were getting closer to that day.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was in the tunnel and was very bright, warm and inviting.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   At the time I was only six and had never experienced or heard of anything like this happening.  Everyone around me was upset and frightened and I didn't tell anyone at the time what had happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carolle_s_nde.html