{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1caroline_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Caroline S NDE 31279","mylang":"de"}
          	        Caroline S NDE 31279  		  		  		  		  		      ---	    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Caroline S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1104  Caroline S NDE  31279  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

During the ceasarian, I dreamt that my father was just up ahead of me on a slight incline.  He was exactly as I remembered him. I was trying to walk towards him but he turned around and waved me away and he said, 'no go back go back it's not time yet.' I can remember feeling slightly disappointed but the next thing I knew I was woken up by my husband to tell me that the baby was all right. The next day a doctor came to see me and said that during the operation I had hemorrhaged very badly and that they had nearly lost me. My husband confirmed this when he came to visit he said he was told to prepare for the worst. This happened on 22 June 1982.

My second experience concerns the friend of my son. She was diagnosed with bone cancer and, despite extensive treatment; she died, on Monday 13 June 1994. I dreamt that I was shopping at our local shops when I saw Lisa running towards me. I can remember feeling delighted because her cancer was in her leg and her last few days she had used a wheelchair. As she was coming towards me she was saying, 'look I'm alright now,' and she was smiling and I felt so happy for her. The next day I returned from work at around four p.m. and I met my son who told me that Lisa had died that morning. 

My third experience occurred when my mother was dying. She had had a stroke and on Tuesday had fallen into a coma. All my family were at the hospital but I had just had a nervous breakdown and found it very hard to accept that my mother was going to die, I refused to attend the hospital somehow thinking that it would all go away and she would get better. At about 11pm my husband and I had gone to bed and I was having trouble settling as I lay there in the dark I felt a sense of urgency and I also felt someone blowing gently on my face. I suddenly felt that I had to go the hospital to say goodbye. I got my husband up, we drove to the hospital, and although I found it very hard, I said my farewells to her. This happened on 11 November 1997

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    June 22 1982, June 13 1994, November 11  			      1997

NDE Elements:

		          How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?     Moderately severe sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    My dad was just as I remember. He was wearing his dressing gown and slippers, his hair was grey and combed, and he still had his mustache.

Lisa looked the same but obviously she looked healthy and she had her hair just as she always had shoulder length and blonde

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    With my father and Lisa they both spoke to me with my mother it was just gentle air on my face

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   literally a light at the end of a tunnel

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      My father was determined that I would not reach him.

When I dreamt of Lisa she was ecstatic

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   roman catholic

What is your religion now?      Uncertain

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   There must be an afterlife or something and that we do have guardian angels

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       When I saw my father the worst part was not being able to reach him but the best was knowing that he knew it was not my time.

The best part of seeing Lisa was seeing her so happy the worst part was knowing that she had died.

The worst part with my mother was having to say goodbye but the best was knowing she was safe with my father

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some are very skeptical but a lot of others are fascinated

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It was too much of a coincidence not to be real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I can only hope that it means there is an afterlife my fear of death is overwhelming sometimes but I know that if my father or mother or both come for me at the end my fear will disappear

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      The questionnaire is good

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1caroline_s_nde.html