{"name":"Astronomy And Elementary Philosophy 2069","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1819__worsdale___astronomy_and_elementary_philosophy.pdf","mytitle":"Astronomy And Elementary Philosophy","mylang":"de"}
ASTRONOMIY,
Elementary Philosophy;
containing the
NATIVITY OF HER ROYAL HIGHNESS
THE LATE AMIABLE
19rintegg Charlotte 21ugušta,
CALCULATED FROM IMPROVED ASTRONOMICAL TABLES,
Comprising every Arc of Direction in the ZODIAC and MUND0,
According to the ORIGINAL PRINCIPLES of the learned
@Lautifug 13tolemy. .
INCLUDING
OBSERVATIONS ON THE MUNDANE INFLUENCE
of the
Great ECLIPSE of the SUN,
On the 7th of SEPTEMBER, 1820.
With Remarks on the FoRMIDABLE MUNDANE EFFECTs of the
GRAND CONJ UNCTION
SATURN AND JUPITER,
On the 19th of JUNE, 1821,
£n the 4First Constellation of the 4ficrp &Irigon,
*
To which is added,
AN ACCOUNT OF THE COMET,
Which appeared in the Summer of 1819, with its subsequent Indications.
BY JOHN: YORSDALE, SERI:
STUDENT IN THE CELESTIAL SCIENCE,
-
*
Late of Domington Northorpe, near Boston, but now of the City of Lincoln, 1. -
* *
-: *
3LGBTNHBOB'N :
PUBLISHED AND SOLD BY MR. JoHN DENLEY, 13, CATHERINE STREET, STRAND ;
AND OTHER BOOKSELLERS. -
4 and/ Ži.
/.
***
|
-
Z_
zo oft
*
4.
%
e?"
-
%. /9
e
/…//
Z,TD
f
**%
2
.
Ż**
:
.
...AZ/
:
:
.
*/4
%.‘of
%
.
".
.
*")
*
%
77
Ż
[.
i.7.
7.
TTTT
|
7.
//
%
Ż
Willii
7.
%
%
%
%
%
st Deč4.
'dzaw. We
-
-
JOHN WORSDAL
ź 222
Żez
ENIOR
S
Żo
-
|
|
-
[N
4.
]
2/
* A (a
•
Ż
*---
- #x, "… ii "… . - -
f is,' ' ' ' **.
- " * * ~. 1: *
r -
| ".
|
*** * * * * * -
| RITA, "N
'''"TM
C# #. * M
An immediate Prosecution will be commenced against
those Persons, who shall at any time transcribe, or pirate,
any'part of this Original Publication.
ENTERED AT STATIONERS HALL.
\
A.
TO THE
STUDENTS
IN
&etteflylfatal #3trology?,
THE great and all-wise Cararo", who is blessed
for evermore, and who is in his works incom
prehensible, has placed all the Celestial Bodies as
secondary causes, to fulfil, execute, and make mani
fest his Divine Will, in due time, to mortal men.
The heavens and the earth display the language of
his unspeakable love to rebellious man, whom he
has placed at the head of the creation; for it is
evident, that what the Almighty ordained in his
own eternal mind, from the beginning of the world
even to its dissolution, will most assuredly come to
pass, in due time, according to his unchangeable
decree and unerring appointment. The divine
love, power, and greatness of the Omnipotent Cre
ator, far exceed the limits of human comprehension,
for all things are made and created for the use and
B
6 TO THE STUDENTS
benefit of man, who bears the image of the Deity.
And therefore, though we are unable to see HIM
In his Glory, by reason of our present state of mor
tality, yet those who are conversant with Him in His
works of AwFUL GRANDEUR, are induced to believe,
that the wisdom and knowledge with which he has
endued mankind, evidently shew that we are, and
were created, for a state of Perfection AFTER
DEATH, INFINITELY suPERIOR To ALL EARTHLY FELI
CITY. -
No man in existence, except the deist, or the
hardened infidel, can rationally deny these asser
tions, except he utterly rejects the divine harmony
and concordance of those sacred writings which
contain the pure and established word of the Al
mighty Jehovah. Yet, I know there are many
persons who reject such assertions, and impiously
condemn the power and efficacy of the Celestial
Bodies: they frequently place the free will of man
in direct opposition to the irresistible decree of the
great Creator : but, as an eminent writer observes,
let the unbelievers say what they please, most are,
in their hearts, convinced of an impending fate—a
something that controls our actions—let us strive as
we may ; and, therefore, if all men could arrive at
affluence by their earnest endeavors, more would
probably attain to it than what at present are seen
to do so.
6&
And this should teach us,
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Rough-hew them how we will.”
IN GENETHILIACA L ASTROLOGY. 7
In my preceding publications, I presume, suffi
cient has been advanced to prove that “Heaven is
as a book of God before us set, wherein to read
his wonderous works;” therefore, from reason
combined with experience, we may infer, that the
Celestial Bodies, in their heavenly states, are the
immediate agents, or second causes of the Almighty,
by which all sublunary events are brought to pass,
and his secret and unchangeable designs made
manifest to mankind. For I conceive it would be
deemed unnecessary to advance arguments in sup
port of those truths that are obvious and incontro
vertible, and which daily operate on our reason
and understanding. But though facts of every
denomination cannot be denied, even by those who
are critically envious, yet the major part of the
community require even miraculous examples to
prove the utility of Occult Speculation, in defiance
of the most clear and authentic information. In
my former publications on this Science, I have used
efforts to prove the truth and verity of Astral Power,
by recent Calculations, founded on Astronomical
Principles; and I beg leave to appeal to the com
munity, whether my predictions, published in 1796
and 1798, concerning the affairs of Europe, have
not been literally fulfilled. In the year 1805 I cal
culated the Nativity of Napoleon Buonaparte,
then emperor of France; the reader will find in
that quarto publication, that I predicted the time of
the downfal of that personage, nine years before it
came to pass, including the termination of the war
in which we were then engaged, and which ended
8 TO THE STUDENTS
as I had publicly foretold. But these things, Icon
ceive, are of small importance, though they may in
some measure operate to convince the unbeliever of
the truth and verity of Sydereal Power. I shall
therefore lay before the public such operations and
examples on this Science, in my future intended
publications, which cannot be rationally contro
verted or opposed by all the combined efforts of
human understanding. And though there are many
who deny the power of the Celestial Bodies, and
require even miracles to be executed and displayed,
in order to induce them to believe the secret efficacy
of His wonDERoUs works; forgetting at the same
time, that “THE WoRks of THE MosT HIGH ARE
ALL MIRACLEs.” But, alas! the time is fast ap
proaching, when the hasty summons of death will
cause them to believe that the irresistible power of
the celestial hosts will not cease to perform the
divine decree which was appointed from all eter
nity. t
I presume it would be needless to dwell any
longer on the preceding subjects, for though they
appear obvious to all, whose ideas are formed for
occult knowledge, yet I am well convinced that
many will endeavour to oppose every species of
reasoning that can possibly be brought in defence of
this divine Science; therefore nothing but examples,
substantiated by facts, can in anywise operate to
convince such characters of the truth of Sydereal
influence, and of the irresistible power and efficacy
of the heavenly bodies, which act and operate as
secondary causes in producing prosperity and ad
IN GENETHLIACAL ASTROLOGY. 9
m
versity, sickness and health, life and death, to the
inhabitants of this terrestrial globe, according to the
eternal, immutable, and unchangeable decree of
the Almighty.
Strive as we may, we never can destroy
Ignoble efforts, which this Art annoy;
Because mankind do seldom, from their youth,
Regard sound reason, and adhere to TRUTH,
But though some men are obstinate and blind,
Yet that is not the case with all mankind:
A few there are, who, in a lonely cell,
In silence rest, where peace and wisdom dwell;
Regardless of those riches, which decay
And quickly vanish, fade, and die away.
All worldly honors, which some mortals crave,
Must soon be laid within the silent grave.
In the Calculation of the following Nativities,
I have given the performance of my indefatigable
labours and experience in the Genethliacal part of
Astrology, and particularly that of Directional
Motion, by a method agreeable to the genuine doc
trine of the venerable Ptolemy, which I hope will
prove beneficial to those who shall arise after me,
in the pursuit of a knowledge of this sacred Science.
For I candidly confess, I have perused the writings
of ancient and modern authors, who have written
on the doctrine of Nativities, and have found the
major part of them very defective in the proper
explanation of Directional Motion; their precepts
and rules are not only intricate and abstruse, but
they are also void of all legal demonstration. It
therefore becomes obvious, that a multiplicity of
10 TO THE STUDENTS
perplexities have been the main cause of plunging
many industrious students into a labyrinth of error
and confusion, while others have laid aside the study
as vain and delusive. But I humbly conceive this
publication will be deemed a sufficient specimen of
what I intend to perform in my future Operations:
the Rules and Examples which I shall give, may be
readily demonstrated, and are so simple and easy
that no scientific individual can misconstrue them.
The plainness of this small publication will, I pre
same, convince the Practitioner that a GENERAL
WORK of this nature is much wanted. But not
withstanding my preceding assertions, I hope the
young Students will not suppose that I am void of
imperfections; certainly not; because I well know,
from “God’s Most Holy WoRD,” as well as reason
and experience, that so long as I remain in this
state of mortality, I shall (like the rest of the human
race) be continually subject to errors, of various
denominations; therefore, as I am not infallible,
the attentive reader will, I presume, candidly con
template, that as my feeble and impotent compre
hension is finite and obscure, so shall I ever con
tinue in a state of imperfection, during my abode
in the land of the living. -
In the Calculation of the Geniture of this ami
able Princess, you will find the PtoloMEAN METHOD
of directing the Significators to their Promittors,
both in the Zodiac and in Mundo, as well as to the
Rapt Parallels in the World by the motion of the
Primum Mobile. I have also given the only true
and natural method of directing the Angles to va
*
IN GENETHLIACA L ASTROLOGY. 11
weam- E
rious aspects in the Mundane Circle, according to
the rules of the IMMORTAL PtoleMY ; which may be
at any time demonstrated by the use of the CELES
TIAL SPHEROID, or the best Astronomical Ta
bles. I have given the Operations in full, in order
that the attentive Practitioners may receive ample
Instructions from the result of my Astronomical
Calculations: and though there are many persons
in this age, who pretend to calculate Nativities, .
and perform many things which are utterly impos
sible, which may in some measure defame the repu
tation of this sacred learning, yet I humbly con
ceive any discerning person may readily detect the
ignorance and absurdity of such impostures.
The method of giving a list of Directions in
any Nativity, even if correctly calculated and per
formed, is, according to my opinion, of little impor
tance to young Practitioners; they certainly wish
to be informed how to calculate them with accu
racy, and also to know the genuine nature of each
Direction, when wrought according to Astronomical
Principles; but all that have hitherto been per
formed by ancient and modern Authors, do not in
anywise tend to illustrate that important part of
Sydereal enquiry. I will therefore ask, Why is the
true method of calculating Directions made so mys
terious and intricate by all Authors? and why has
it been so long interred in the silent shades of
obscurity? when it may be exhibited in such terms
which cannot be misunderstood by any who wish to
take a little trouble in the investigation of this sub
lime study. Indeed, I am convinced it will be
12 TO THE STUDENT'S
*
-
|- *
acknowledged by every candid and impartial per
son, that this small publication, combined with my
intended Introduction to the Genethliacal Depart
ment of this Science, will be found of the greatest
utility in exhibiting that part of Directional Motion
perfectly plain and familiar to every Student in the
Celestial Science.
From my own experience in this sublime study,
about forty years ago, I candidly acknowledge I
was placed in error and confusion concerning the
method of calculating Directions of various deno
minations: at that period I adhered to the writ
ings of those who thought themselves wiser than
PTOLEMY, but was soon convinced of the impro
priety thereof, as well as the insufficiency of their
pretended discoveries. I am likewise concerned to
say, from the highest degree of authenticity, that
many respectable authors, both ancient and modern,
have done very little in promoting a true and natu
ral knowledge of this heavenly Science;—they
have, in a great measure, placed it in the dungeon
of oblivion, through the intricacy and absurdity
of their Operations; and have also augmented it
with useless matter, to the utter confusion and
dismay of the young Practitioner.
I am convinced there are many ingenious per
sons who wish to become acquainted with the pro
found rudiments of this sacRED LEARNING, but are
deprived of those advantages requisite for obtaining
legal information, as there are no books at present
published on this Science, that are properly adapted
to convey sufficient instructions to those who are
IN GENETHLIACAL ASTROLOGY. F 13
*
-
attached to this sublime Study; and being convinced
that several persons in humble circumstances, resid
ing in various parts of this kingdom, have not the
means to enable them to obtain sufficient inform
ation in the Genethliacal part of this Science.
Therefore all such persons, who have a natural
inclination to be instructed in Directional Motion,
&c., may apply personally to me, at my abode in
the city of Lincoln, and I will teach them the
Genuine Rudiments of the Science, on reasonable
terms.
.."
I now conclude for the present, hoping success
will attend the indefatigable labors of all the
GENUINE STUDENTs in this department of the CELEs
TIAL SCIENCE, for which both KINGs and PRINCEs,
in preceding ages, had the highest veneration.
JOHN WORSDALE, Senior.
LINCOLN, June 12th, 1819.
14 - ASTRONOMY,
239° 16' -
* -
* s: *.
s' 's
'**'S
*S*.
o' Princess
* CHARLoTTE AUGUSTA, £
se *: Q . . ~:- Lion’e - “2.
%. - 2 it "." January 6th, 1796, S! #'t. " má
$ * *. 20h. 44m. P. M. a»
&
--~~~~~. -
Head. * Latitude 51° 32'.
*:::ss. -
5
*
*
& * ''
! '' • * -
so is
- Diurnal Nocturnal
Lat. Declin. A. R. *m'." "#" #
147s. 1951 N. c6 Alt 2.18°30' 62 5s 10°29
2, 0.41 S. 17 48 S. 314 53 66 10|11 2 || 13 50 1858 |
3 113 N. 13 12 S. 216 24 72 50|12 8 |107 10 |17 52
Q - - - 22 23 S. 288 17. 5845 947 121 15 [20 13
Q 1 33 S. 1958 S. 309 58 62.47 10 28 [117 13 |1931 |
# 1 35 S. 24 31 S. 282 36 54 51 9 8 |125 9 20 52
} 3 2 N. 1934 S. 254 5' 6319||10 33 (116 41 |19 27
~
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY, 15
THE WHOLE CALCULATION
ASTRONOMICALLY DISPLAYED.
-*990& Goss
The Sun’s Polar Elevation is thus obtained.
As the duplicate diurnal horary times of the Sun ... is 34
Are to the difference between the poles of the Ascendant
and twelfth • * .. } 10 *
So is the Sun's distance from the twelfth • - . . 9 53
To the proportional part • * • - . . .5 25
Which add to the pole of the twelfth house . . 40 48
*
And the Sun's circle of position will be 46 13
The Moon's Pole of Position is calculated
as follows: -
Q *
As the double diurnal horary times of the Moon ... 21 6
Are to the polar elevation of the eleventh house . . .23 27
So is the Moon's distance from the Medium Celi ... 14 49
To her pole of position * * ... 16 28
Ascendant to the trine of Mars in mundo, *
To the right ascension of Mars * @ ... 216 24
Add one third part of his semidiurnal arc .. . . 24 16
- 240 40
Subtract the right ascension ofthe midheaven . . 209 16
And the Arc of Direction will be I 24
•- .
*
16 ASTRONOMY,
[E- |- -
m
Sun to the sesquiquadrate of Saturn in the zodiac.
\.
Oblique ascension of the sesquiquadrate of Saturn, under # als
the Sun's circle of position, is * - 36
From which subtract the oblique ascension of the Sun 313 35
- And the Arc of Direction is ... 5 l
Midheaven to the seatile of Mercury in mundo.w
The distance of Mercury from the midheaven is . . 43 20
Subtract two-thirds of his semidiurnal arc ... 36 34
Arc of Direction • - . . 6 46
Midheaven to the opposition of Saturn, *
Right ascension of the opposition of Saturn . . 246 4
Right ascension of the midheaven subtract . . 239 16
Arc of Direction -- ... 6 48
*
Ascendant to the body of Venus in mundo. *
To the seminocturnal arc of Venus • - ... l I7 l8
Add her right ascension, with latitude ... . . .309 58
-
427 11
Circle subtract 360
67 l 1
Subtract the right ascension of the Imum Celi • - 59 16
Arc of Direction • • 7 55
Moon to the opposition of Saturn in mundo,
converse direction. O *
*As the nocturnal horary times of Saturn . . 10 29
Are to his distance from the Imum Celi • • 6 48
$o are the diurnal horary times of the Moon • - 10 33
"Te her secondary distance from the midheaven .. 6 50
Her primary distance from the tenth 14 49
Proportional part subtract .. 6 50
Arc of Direction 7 59
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. 17
Moon to the seatile of Mars in mundo, direct
direction. o a
As the diurnal horary times of the Moon s so 10 33
Are to her distance from the eleventh house • • 6 17
So are the diurnal horary times of Mars - . 12 3
To his secondary distance from the ninth . . . 7 13
Which added to his primary distance • @ l, 24
- The Arc of Direction will then be 8 37
Ascendant to the body of Jupiter in mundo. *
To the seminocturnal arc of Jupiter • • ... ', 1 13 50
Add his right ascension s & • * 314 53
428 43
Subtract the Circle 360
- 68 43
Right ascension of the Imum Celi subtract • * 59 16
Arc of Direction 9 27
Midheaven to the sextile of the Sun in mundo.
o *
The distance of the Sun from the midheaven is • * 49 |
From which subtract two-thirds of his diurnal arc 39 8
- Arc of Direction 9 53
Ascendanttothe sesquiquadrateofMarsinmundo.
To the semidiurnal arc of Mars * @ s sº 72 50
Add his right ascension • * * - 216 24
- 289 14
Subtract the right ascension of the midheaven * * 239 16
Remains the true distance of Mars from the west 49 58
From which deduct half his semidiurnal arc • e 36 25
Arc of Direction 13 33
18 ASTRONOMY,
-
- - N *-mas
Moon to the seatile of Venus in mundo,
direct direction. |
o V.
As the horary times of the Moon • - - - 10 33
Are to her distance from the midheaven • * 14 49
So are the diurnal horary times of Venus - - 10 28
to the proportional part • • - - - - 14 43 .
The primary distance of Venus from the twelfth, is 28 50
Proportional part, or secondary distance, subtract 14 42
- Arc of Direction 14 s
Midheaven to the body of the Moon.
O \,
Right ascension of the Moon • - - - 254 5
Subtract the right ascension of the Medium Celi . . 239 16
Arc of Direction 14 49
Ascendant to the semiquartile of Mercury in
mundo.
o \
The distance of Mercury from the Medium Celi is – 43 20
Subtract half his semidiurnal arc • • • - - - 27 25
Arc of Direction 15. 55
Moon to the sextile of Jupiter in mundo,
direct direction.
o *
As the horary times of the Moon .. fe - ... 10 33
Are to her distance from the midheaven • - 14 49
So are the diurnal horary times of Jupiter - - 11 2
To his secondary distance - - - - 15 30
His primary distance from the twelfth, is • - * - 31 29
Proportional part subtract * • - © • • 15 30
Arc of Direction 15 59
AND ELEMENTARY PHILosoPHY. 19
*=
-
Sun to the body of Venus in the sodiac.
* ,
Oblique ascension of Venus, under the pole of the Sun 329 50
From which subtract the oblique ascension of the Sun 313 35
Arc of Direction T16 T5
Sun to the trine of Saturn in the zodiac.
© *
Oblique ascension of the trine of Saturn • • 330 9
The oblique ascension of the Sun subtract - - . . .313 35
Arc of Direction 16 34
=
Sun to the square of Saturn in mundo,
direct direction.
o a
As the diurnal horary times of the Sun .. • • 9 47
Are to his distance from the ascendant • • 9 41
So are the nocturnal horary times of Saturn • • 10 29
To the proportional part • • • • • • 10 24
To which add Saturn's distance from the Imum Celi 6 48
* And the sum will be the Arc of Direction I7 12
--
Sun to the body of Venus in mundo, direct
direction. © \.
As the diurnal horary times of the Sun • - . . 9 47
Are to his distance from the East • - • • 9 41
So are the diurnal horary times of Venus .. ... 10 28
To her secondary distance from the East ... 10 22
Which added to the primary distance # - * - 7 55
The Arc of Direction will be 18 17
Ascendant to the Semiquartile of the Sun in
mundo. o w
The distance of the Sun from the midheaven is . . . 49 H.
From which subtract half his semidiurnal Arc - - 29 22
Arc of Direction 19 39
–
2O - AsTRONOMY,
*
-
Sun to the body of Jupiter in the zodiac.
o A.
Oblique ascension of Jupiter under the Sun's pole .. 333 2I
From which subtract the Sun's oblique ascension - - 313 35
Arc of Direction 19 46
Sun to the body of Jupiter in mundo, direct
direction. O w
As the diurnal horary times of the Sun • • 9 47
Are to his distance from the East . - - • • 9 41
So are the diurnal horary times of Jupiter • - II 2
To the proportional part .. • - ... 10 56
The primary distance of Jupiter from the East is 9 27
To which add the part proportional • - • • 10 56
And the Arc of Direction is 20 23
Moon to the parallel ofSaturn in mundo, direct
direction. * o &
As the diurnal horary times of the Moon • - 10 33
Are to her distance from the Medium Celi - - 14 49
So are the nocturnal horary times of Saturn - - 10 29
To his secondary distance from the Imum Celi • * 14 45
Which added to Saturn's primary distance from the fourth 6 48
The Arc of Direction will be 21 33
Moon to the parallel of Saturn in mundo,
converse direction. o \.
As the nocturnal horary times of Saturn -- 10 29
Are to his distance from the Imum Celi - - 6 48
So are the diurnal horary times of the Moon 10 33
To her secondary distance from the Midheaven . 6 50.
To which add her primary distance • • - - 14 49
And the sum is the Arc of Direction 21 39
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. £21
*
Moon to the sesquiquadrate of Saturn in mundo,
direct direction.
-
1 first direct to the Square in Mundo. 6 v.
As the diurnal horary times of the Moon • e 10 33
Are to her distance from the midheaven • • 14. 49
So are the nocturnal horary times of Saturn • - 10 29
To the proportional part • • ** * • - ]4 45
The distance of Saturn from the Cusp of the Ascendant is
thus obtained.
Right ascension of Saturn at the time of birth • * 66 4
To which add his seminocturnal arc • • 62 58
129 2
Subtract the right ascension of the Imum Celi • • 59 16
And the distance of Saturn from the East will be . . 69 46
From which subtract the above proportional part 14 45
And the Arc of Directionofthe Moon to the square of Saturn is 55 1
Therefore from the aforesaid Arc of Direction . . . 55 l
Subtract half the Seminocturnal Arc of Saturn, £: 31 29
he remains under the Earth when the direction is finished
And the Arc of Direction of the Moon, to the * = .
quadrate of Saturn, is . • • • •
Moon to the Square of the Sun in mundo,
converse direction. © \.
As the diurnal horary times of the Sun • * * 9 47
Are to his distance from the East • * • * 9 4l
So are the diurnal horary times of the Moon 10 33
To her secondary distance from the Medium Celi .. 10 27
Which added to her primary distance • e • • I4 49
The Arc of Direction will be 25 16
Moon to the sextile of Mars in the zodiac,
without Latitude. e - . \,
Oblique ascension of the sextile of Mars in 8d. 24m. of 2ss 12
Capricorn, under the pole of the Moon, is .. % -
D
22. - ASTRONOMY, * *
From which subtractthe Moon's oblique ascension, with
* - 260 36
out latitude • • • • • •
And the Arc of Direction is 25 36
Moon to the sextile of Mars in the zodiac,
- with Latitude. O a
oblique ascension of the sextile of Mars, with the *} 285 46
tude the Moon obtains there • •
Subtract the Moon's oblique ascension with latitude 260 8
Arc of Direction 25 38
Moon to the square of Mercury in mundo,
- converse direction. © \
As the diurnal horary times of Mercury • • 9 8
Are to his distance from the Ascendant • • ll 30
So are the diurnal horary times of the Moon • • 10 33
To her secondary distance from the Midheaven • • 13 17
Which must be added to the primary, because the £} J4 49
tion is finished when the Moon has passed the meridian
And the Arc of Direction will be 28 6
Moon to the parallel of Mercury in mundo, by the
rapt motion. o "a
The diurnal horary times of the Moon are • e. 10 33
And the diurnal horary times of Mercury e - 9 8
The sum 19 41
I now say,–As the sum of both the diurnal horary times 19, 41
Are to the diurnal horary times of the Moon o e 10 33
So is the distance, in right ascension, between the *} 28 31
and Mercury Q & * -
To the proportional part • • * ... • * . . 15 17
To which add the Moon's distance from the midheaven 14 49
And the Arc of Direction is 30, 2
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. 23
Moon to the body of Mercury in mundo, direct
- direction. o a
As the diurnal horary times of the Moon • • • • 10 33
Are to her distance from the midheaven . . 14 49
So are the diurnal horary times of Mercury • - 9 8
To the proportional part • - • - • - 12 49
Right ascension of Mercury • - - e. 282 36
Right ascension of the midheaven subtract " . . 239 16
Remains the distance of Mercury from the Tenth 43 20
From which subtract the above proportional part 12 49
And the Arc of Direction will be 30 31
Sun to the parallel of Mars in mundo, converse
direction. O v.
As the diurnal horary times of Mars .. - 12 8
Are to his distance from the midheaven • • 22 52
So are the Sun's diurnal horary times • - • • 9 47
To the proportional part • • •. ... 18 26
The right ascension of the Sun - - * - 288 17
Right ascension of the midheaven subtract • • 239 16
Pistance of the Sun from the Tenth • • ... -15-I
The preceding proportional part subtract • - 18 26
35
Arc of Direction 30
Moon to the trine of Jupiter in mundo, converse
direction, O
As the nocturnal horary times of Jupiter . . . . 18
Are to his distance from the Ascendant . (- - 9
So are the diurnal horary times of the Moon - 10
To the proportional part • • " * * * * *- • * 5
The Moon's distance from the Ninth House is thus obtained
Her primary distance from the Tenth 14
To which add her duplicate horary times 2]
\
58
27
33
15
49
6
55
And the Moon's distance from the Ninth is 35
From which subtract the above proportional part 5
And the Arc of Direction is 30
15
40
24 ASTRONOMY,
mum
-
- , -
Moon to the trine of Venus in mundo, converse
direction. O
As the nocturnal horary times of Venus • • 19
Are to her distance from the East - - - - - 7
So are the diurnal horary times of the Moon 10
To the part proportional • - • • - - 4
The primary distance of the Moon from the Ninth, is 35
From which subtract the above proportional part 4
And the Arc of Direction will be 3]
\
32
55.
33
17
55
17
38
Moon to the parallel of the Sun in mundo,
by the rapt motion. O ,
The horary times of the Moon are • • 10
And the horary times of the Sun - - 9
The Sum 20 20
As the sum of the horary times • - ... 20
Are to the horary times of the Moon • - 10
So is the distance in Right Ascension * - ".. 34
To the proportional part • - 17
Which added to the Moon's primary distance - - 14
The Sum will be the Arc of Direction 32
::49
34
Moon to the square of Mars in mundo,
direct direction. O
As the diurnal horary times of the Moon • - 10
Are to her distance from the midheaven • * 14
So are the diurnal horary times of Mars ... " .. 12
To the proportional part • • - - 17
The distance of Mars from the West is - -
*
33
49
8
2
58
49
From which subtract the secondary distance of Mars from 17
the Seventh }
Arc of Direction 32
2
56
*
AND ELEMENTARY PHILosophy. 25
*=
Moon to the body of Mars in mundo, converse
direction. o a
As the diurnal horary times of Mars • - 12 S
Are to his distance from the West • • 49 58
So are the diurnal horary times of the Moon • • 10, 33
To her secondary distance from the West • e 43 27
The distance of the Moon from the Seventh, is obtained
as follows: -
To the Moon's Right Ascension • • 254 - 5
Add her semidiurnal Arc • * 63. 19
The sum 317 24
Therefore from the aforesaid Sum subtract the right
- - } 239 16
ascension of the midheaven • •
And the primary distance of the Moon from the West is 78 8
From which subtract the Moon's secondary distance 43 27
And the Arc of Direction is 34 41
Moon to the body of the Sun in mundo,
direct direction. Q a
As the diurnal horary times of the Moon • & 10 33
Are to her distance from the midheaven . * @ 14 49
So are the diurnal horary times of the Sun .. 9 47
To his secondary distance from the meridian • • 13 43
From the Sun's primary distance from the Tenth 49 1
Subtract the proportional part • e 13 43
And the remainder is the Arc of Direction 35 18
**
26 AsTRoNOMY,
A
TABLE OF DIRECTIONS
IN THIS NATIVITY, -
WITH THE SEVERAL ARCS THEREOF,
And the ME4SURE of TIME agreeing to each of them.
Adjusted by the most correct Method corresponding with the Sun's Motion
in the Ecliptic.
#' I'',
Ascendant to the Trine of Mars in Mundo,........ | 24] I 5
Sun to the Sesquiquadrate of Saturn in the Zodiac,.. 5 || 5 2
Midheaven to the Sextile of Mercury in Mundo,. ... 646 6 10 -
Midheaven to the Opposition of Saturn in Mundo, ... 6 48 6 10
Ascendant to the Square of Saturn in Mundo, ...... 648 6 10
Ascendant to the Body of Venus in Mundo......... 755, 8 0
Midheaven to the Square of Venus in Mundo,......! 755: 8 0
Moon to the Opposition of Saturn in Mundo, Con-Q . 8 2
verse Direction, . . . . . . . . • e o e e • * * * * * * *". % 7 59
Moon to the Sextileof Mars in Mundo, Direct Direction 837| 8 9
Ascendant to the Body of Jupiter in Mundo, ...... 927; 9 7.
Midheaven to the Square of Jupiter in Mundo...... 9 27| 9 7
Midheaven to the Sextile of the Sun in Mundo, .... 9 53| 10 1
Ascendant to the Sesquiquadrate of Mars in Munde, |13 33 13 9
Moon tothe Sextile of Venus in Mundo,Direct Direction |l 4 10 14 4
Midheaven to the Body of the Moon in Mundo, .... 1449|15 0
Ascendant to the Square ofthe Moon in Mundo, .... 1449, 15 0
Ascendant to the Semiquartile of Mercury in Mundo,. 15 55 16 2
Moon to the Sextile of Jupiter in Mundo,DirectDirec" |1559|16 2
\
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY.
THE DIRECTIONS CONTINUED.
Sun to the Body of Venus in the Zodiac,. . . . . . . . . .
Sun to the Trine of Saturn in the Zodiac. . . . . . . . . .
Sun to the Square ofSaturn in Mundo, Direct Direction
Sun to the Body of Venus in Mundo, Direct Direction,
Ascendant to the Semiquartile of the Sun in Mundo..
Sun to the Body of Jupiter in the Zodiac, ........
Sun to the Body of Jupiter in Mundo, Direct Direction
Moon to the Parallel of Saturn in Mundo, Direct Dir
Moon to the Parallel of Saturn in Mundo, Converse
Direction, ... . . . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - • e - - - -
Moon to the Sesquiquadrate of Saturn in Mundo,
Direct Direction .................. • - - -
Moon to the Square of the Sun in Mundo, Converse
Direction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • - - - - - - -
Moon to the Sextile of Mars in the Zodiac, without
Latitude, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • • • • • - - - - -
Moon to the Sextile of Mars in the Zodiac, with
Latitude, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - - - -
Moon to the Square of Mercury in Mundo. Conv. Dir.
Moon to the Parallel of Mercury in Mundo, by the
Rapt Motion, ........... • - - - - - - - - - - - -
Moon to the Body of Mercury in Mundo, Direct Dir.
Sun to the Parallel of Mars in Mundo, Conv. Direc.
Moon to the Trine of Jupiter in Mundo, Conv. Dir.
Moon to the Trine of Venus in Mundo, Conv. Dir.
Moon to the Parallel of the Sun in Mundo, by the
Rapt Motion, ..... • • • • • • • • * * * * * * * * • - - {
Moon to the Square of Mars in Mundo, Direct Dir.
Moon to the Body of Mars in Mundo, Conv. Dir.
Moon to the Body of the Sun in Mundo, Direct Dir.
27.
-
ARC. | TIME.
D. M. Yis. Mo.
16 15|l 6 5
16 34] 16 9
| 7 |2| 17 5
18 17 18: 6
1939 19 11
19 46; 20 2 -
- Married.
20 23, 20 # Cl
21 33|21 10 Died.
21 39|21 11
23 32 23 10
25 16|25 7
25 36||25 | 1
25 38' 26 - 0
28 6|28 5,
30 2.30 5.
30 31}31 0
30 35' 31 1
30 40|31 ||
31 38|32 || 2:
32 34.j33 0.
32 56]33 5.
34 41 |35 2
35, 18135- 9
t
28 AsTRONOMY,
* - *
I have now finished the whole Calculation of
this Nativity, from the best Astronomical Tables;
and those persons who are acquainted with the
doctrine of the Sphere, may (if they think proper)
prove each operation according to the elements
thereof. The whole of the directions may be rea
dily demonstrated by true and natural motion,
which will ever be found substantial so long as
time endures.—But I must beg leave to inform the
Public, that I have in my possession an original
Greek copy of the “Quadripartite,” by the learned
and immortal CLAUDIUs ProLEMY ; and as I am
not guided by the imperfect publications and spu
rious translations of that important work, I pre
sume the Students in this Science will notice the
difference between my method of calculation and,
those that are performed by modern professors.
The time of the geniture of this amiable Prin
cess I have obtained from the most respectable
authority, being convinced that the period of birth
given in the foregoing figure of the heavens, is the
true and genuine radix; I shall therefore beg leave
to offer a few observations on the radical display
of the heavenly bodies in the celestial constitution
of this most amiable personage; and endeavour to
shew, that all important occurrences during her
life, are pointed out previous to their commence
ment, by those remarkable directions, which, not
only in this but in all other genitures, clearly
ascertain and obviously exhibit the time of each
AND ELEMENTARY PHILosoPHY. 29
-
important event, from the moment of birth to the
period of dissolution. -
Upon the Ascendant of this Geniture we find the
tropical sign Capricorn occupying the oriental
horizon, with the two benevolent planets, Jupiter
and Venus, conjoined in the masculine sign Aqua
rius, intercepted in that important station, and in a
mundane configuration to the Medium Celi, the
angle of honor and dignity. Such harmonious and
illustrious configurations, the judicious eye of im
partial contemplation cannot behold without admi
ration and wonder. Those benevolent and glorious
stars, being united in the angle of the east, are
essentially qualified to produce the most noble and
dignified deportment; with universal esteem, com
bined with virtue, affection, peace, and charity.--
Such is the natural power of those two benevolent .
Planets in the Ascendant of this Geniture; and
therefore we need not be astonished that the life
and actions of this late amiable personage should so
admirably correspond with the dignity and brilliant
influence of those celestial bodies which I have pre
viously contemplated with becoming affection.
After what has been premised, we still find more
testimonies of a magnificent and important nature:
Jupiter, ruler of the Medium Celi, is in exact mun
dane parallel with the Sun and Mercury, which
further augment the preceding brilliant and impor
tant configurations, and consequently adorn the
mind with ingenuity, integrity, and unbounded
fidelity. But when we attentively consider the pro
E. -
30 As TRONOMY,
pitious sextile rays of the Sun and Mercury, in the
mundame circle, by which the Moon is so eminently
configurated by the rapt motion, we shall then dis
cover, that those illustrious and benevolent irradi
ations manifest their power and energy, in dispens
ing the most extraordinary gifts of mind, combined
with noble and dignified ideas; united also with a
retentive memory, indefatigable in adhering to
those luminous paths which lead to divine and
heavenly wisdom. -
Having now investigated the peculiar, important,
and harmonious testimonies, and illustrious confi
gurations united in this Geniture, the impartial
reader, and ingenious student, may clearly observe
that the directions in this Nativity have shewed
their effects at each correct period, according to
their own nature and power. The Moon to the
sextile of Jupiter in mundo, and the Sun to the
body of Venus in the zodiac, and in the world by
the rapt motion, are directions of a most glorious, .
benevolent, and illustrious nature. At the time of
marriage, the Sun, the significator of honor and
dignity, was directed to the conjunction of Jupiter
in the zodiac, and also in his body to the mundane
circle, which, in all cases of a similar nature, are
productive of the most dignified splendour and
tranquillity, united with every portion of terrestrial
happiness. But, alas! how frail is the tenor of .
life;—for no sooner had those propitious rays per
fected connubial felicity, than the awful configura
tions to the giver of life began their operation 3
AND ELEMENTARY PHILosoPHY. 31.
which leads me to the most solemn part of my sub
ject: for we now behold the Moon, who is the
Hyleg in this Geniture, form the mortal union in
the heavens with that malevolent and ponderous
planet Saturn; for at the age of twenty-one years
and ten months, being the time of death, (as you
may see in the Table preceding) the aphetical lu
minary was directed to the mundane parallels of
that malignant star, both by direct and converse
motion; and those directions are followed by eleven
others, of a direful and destructive tendency. And
though the directions of the two benevolents both
interpose in the mortal train, yet, under circum
stances of this nature, their power is defeated, and
totally destroyed, by the violent influence of malefic
power; for though Jupiter is angular, and con
joined with Venus, yet he is injured by the mun
dane square of Saturn, who is afflicting the Moon
by an opposition in the radical constitution. And
I must here beg leave to observe, that Saturn is also
in a trine aspect to Jupiter and Venus in the zodiac;
but as that configuration falls in signs of short
ascensions, the immortal Ptolemy informs us it is
equal to the power of a square, and is consequently
endowed with violent qualities; so that the two
benevolent planets are afflicted by the hostile rays
of Saturn in the zodiac and mundo, at the point
where the malignant quartile beams of Mars unite
in augmenting those furious irradiations. It is
therefore obvious, that the assistance of Jupiter and
Venus could not counteract the force of those bane
*
23. AsTRONOMY,
ful directions to the giver of life; which, being
numerous, are always productive of sudden disso
lution in all similar instances whatever; and the
more particularly when the giver of life is afflicted
in the radix; which is the case in the Geniture of
this late amiable and much-lamented Personage.
From what has been advanced, sufficient may be
collected to convince every rational and impartial
reader, that the ALL-Glorious CREAToR has, accord
ing to his own ETERNAL MIND from the beginning of
the world, fixed certain bounds to the life of man,
, beyond which he cannot pass.—To define, and pre
viously ascertain the correct time of prosperity and
adversity, sickness and health, as well as the extent
of life and period of dissolution, is an operation the
most sublime, and elevates the human mind .
heavenly contemplation; and at the same tim
illuminates our finite and imperfect ideas and
understanding, with a true and humble knowledge
of the wisdom and awful grandeur of the works of
the Omnipotent Creator of Heaven and Earth.
And though many unthinking persons frequently
slander the Power of “THE works of His HANDs,”
and impiously condemn, in the most profane and
ignominious terms, every species of Sydereal Con
templation, yet they ought to reflect, with due
reverence and becoming sincerity, that those Celes
tial Orbs which appear visible to all mankind, and
whose brilliant rays proclaim the wisdom and power
of the Deity, are instruments in the hand of the
GREAT CREATOR, for the immediate purpose of
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. $3
-
|
accomplishing his grand, unerring, and stupendous
designs. Such important investigations ought to
teach the abandoned Infidel silent submission, and
profound and humble knowledge to each unbeliever
in Sublime and Celestial Speculation. -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
*
- *
*
-
- -
-
>
*
-
* - f
-
-
-
-
-
*
-
- -
-
- *
-
*
-
-
-
-
*
|
*
* -
• |
- w
> -
- -
-
\
-
-
-
l -
-
-
-
-
-
>
-
-
- -
-
- - *----
* *
\
-
-
-
* -
*
• -
*
w
-
*
|
*
-
-
* -
-
-
-
- s - - *
- -
\
- -
- -
-
AND ELEMENTARY PHILoso'PHY. 35
oBsERVATIONs
ON THE
e REAT ECHLHP's E
THE SU.W',
Calculated for the Latitude and Meridian of London,
WHICH WILL HAPPEN
ON THURSDAY THE 7th of SEPTEMBER, 1820.
/
*
THIS Eclipse will begin at 24 minutes past 12,
the middle will be at 53 minutes past 1, and the
end at 16 minutes past 3, p. m. Digits eclipsed
will be 10°28' on the Sun's upper limb. There
fore, though this will be a very great Eclipse, yet
it will not be so large as some Astronomers expect;
neither will it be quite so large as that which hap
pened on Sunday the 1st of April, 1764.
It is an ancient and sacred truth, that when the
ALMIGHTY created the world, , he made the two
-
$6 AND ELEMENTARY PHILosophy.
-
great luminaries, the Sun and Moon, and all the
Celestial Bodies, for the use and service of man
kind; and he has also declared in his Holy WoRD,
that they are “for signs, and for seasons, and
jor days, and years.” Such is the language of
the Sacred Writings, the verity of which is obvious
to every enlightened individual. But the har
dened infidel will doubtless sneer and condemn
these observations, because his finife and depraved
capacity will not admit him to learn the MYSTE
RIES of the MOST HIGH, in the VISIBLE
WORKS OF THE CREATION.
The Ancients have left on record many valuable
writings concerning the EFFECTS of SOLAR
and LUNAR ECLIPSES, the INFLUENCE of
which cannot be doubted, when each CAUSE is
compared with the EFFECT; for it is evident,
from the examples of the present and preceding
ages, that no visible Eclipse of the Sun can happen
at any period, when both the Luminaries, with
their Rulers, assume violent terms, qualities, and
positions, but the most direful events follow, within
the expiration of Five YEARs AFTER THE APPEAR
.ANCE of THE ECLIPsE; and all events foreboded
thereby, will be augmented, or diminished, in pro
portion to the magnitude of each obscuration.
The Eclipse of the Sun under consideration, is
celebrated in the celestial sign VIRGO, the Ascen
dant of PARIS, IN FRANCE, &c. &c. it there
fore becomes evident that something of a remark
able nature, respecting Persons in HIGH AU
ANE) ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY, 37
* *- E
• THORITY, &c. will certainly take effect in those
places where this Eclipse displays its direful power.
All Authors inform us, that great Solar Eclipses
forebode the death of great Men,—and differences
between RULERs, STATEs, and Commonwealths,—
as also discord and contention between NoBLEMEN,
and likewise very dangerous diseases among man
Kind, which will continue a long time in several
places; they indicate also, tribulation and sorrow.
And when celebrated in the EARTHY TRIGoN, there
follows scarcity of corn and fruit, in those places
governed by each peculiar constellation. The
learned CARDAN says, “The operations of a Solar
Eclipse are powerful, and if they fall to be in
the beginning of a flourishing harvest, they shew
a barrenness to follow.” The judicious JUNCTINE
also informs us, that “No Eclipse of the Sun
can be, but some GRAND MATTER 1s signIFIED THERE
By, according to the quantity or greatness of the
Eclipse.” And therefore, when we consider that
this Eclipse under consideration, falls in the House
of Death, before its final termination,—when we
contemplate that it also falls in a Sign of human
..form,-in fine, when we observe the violent nature
and influence of the aspecting Stars at that time,
we may then readily determine that its EFFECTS
are intended to operate on mankind in general, in
those places governed by the EARTHY TRIGON.
And I am clearly of opinion, (having the genuine
Greek Quadripartite of the immortal Ptolemy
- F •
38 AsTRONOMY,
* m"
Jor my guide), that the late direful Comets have
not yet nearly completed their ForMIDABLE EFFICA
CY on this sublunary World.
The Planet Mercury is the superior ruler of this
Eclipse, and being in a mundane parallel with
Mars at the beginning, he becomes endowed with
obnoxious qualities, and the evil thereof is consi
derably augmented by the co-operation of their
beams by many irradiations in the Zodiac, of a des
tructive nature; therefore the whole position of the
Celestial Bodies, during this Eclipse, is indicative
of the most dreadful calamities in remote Regions;
in consequence of which we may expect many IM
PORTANT ALTERATIONS IN KINGDOMS
AND STATES TO SUCCEED IN A FEW RE
VOLVING YEARS; the SEASONS will be UN
HEALTHY and UNGENIAL, there will follow
violent Tempests, HIGH WINDS, and DREAD
FUL STORMS, in many places; violent THUN
DER, LIGHTNINGS, and Earthquakes, in those
Countries subject to Earthquakes, with unfortu
nate Navigations and Shipwrecks; also GREAT
DROUGHTS, causing a pestilential and corrup
tive Air; the Winters will be productive of long
and continued Frosts, with , IMMODERATE
RAIN and SNOW; violent Fevers will be preva
lent, with Coughs and eruptions of the Blood, and
infectious Diseases that are INCURABLE ; with
sudden and VIOLENT DEATHS, and GREAT
COMMOTIONS among PRETENDERS TO
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY, 39
*"
RELIGION, by whose efforts those wolves in sheeps’
clothing will draw many from the true worship of
GOD, and JESUS CHRIST whom he hath sent.
The conduct of SOME CLERGYMEN, of the
EstABLISHED CHURCH, Is Not A LITTLE Astonishing;
I have, with many respectable characters, VERY
OFTEN SEEN these Ministers of Christ (EX
TEMPORE PREACHERS #3) visit the houses
of their parishioners, and COLLECT THEIR
TYTHES on the Sabbath day, and then adminis
ter the holy sacrament, and ascend the pulpit
with FERVENT ZEAL; but though these trans
actions are beyond the reach of contradiction, yet
in this enlightened age, they ought not to excite
astonishment; for Sacred Writ informs us, that
HE WAS A BISHOP, who, for thirty pieces of
silver, betrayed the REDEEMER OF THE
WORLD. *
And “Jeroboam returned not from his evil
way, but made again of the lowest of the people
Priests of the high places; whosoever would, he
consecrated him, and HE BECAME ONE of the
priests of the high places.” I Kings xiii.33.
* Those deceitful Popish PRIESTs, who wear the RoBEs and
eat the BREAD of the INNOCENT and DEFENCELESS ORPHANs, with
out remorse, will, in a few years, experience that their ignominious
pretences will clothe them with perpetual shame, and exhibit their
viLLANIoUs TRANSACTIONs, which will remain for the inspection of
succeeding generations. - -
F 2
40 AsTRONoMY,
“HE WITH A LOFTY LOOK, DID MAN ENDUE,
“comMANDING HIM THE HEAVENS, AND STARS To VIEw.”
OPID,
230° 29'
Z *.
THE
Grand Conjunction
- OF
Saturn and Jupiter,
#: ) 1929
June the 19th, 1821,
9h.30m. P.M.
*
aS
a's
&
~).
LATITUDES.
2° 23' S.
1. 13. S.
0. 23. S.
0.45. N.
1, 51. N.
1. 31. S.
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. 41
*: re-s’
The time is now fast approaching when the most
most obstinate unbelievers, in remote realms, will,
to their sorrow, see * and FEEL the DIREFUL EFFICACY
ofthis GREAT conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter in the
FIERY TRIGoN; and, therefore, if many great and ME
MoRABLE Events do not succeed these Celestial Ap
pearances, then is the mundane part of Astrology a
vain and delusive study, and by our forefathersought
to have been deposited in silent oblivion for ever.
In the foregoing Figure of the Heavens, we find
all the Planets under the Earth, except Mercury,
who is in the western horizon, and nearly setting
at that time; so that many political Events, por
tended by this Conjunction, will be enveloped a
considerable time in darkness before they appear
manifest to the World; the Moon is angular, and
applying to the square of Mars, Lord of the Tenth,
who is also angular and afflicted on the Cusp of the
fourth Heuse, or Imum Celi, which represents the
Grave, or end ofall things.
From this position, I judge that those mortal
diseases, and other calamities, portended by the
great Solar Eclipse, will be much augmented by the
Jormidable efficacy of this Grand Conjunction of
the Superiors in the Fiery Trigon; which, of its own
nature, signifies GREAT and IMPoRTANT MATTERs to
succeed. The learned Henricus Bentzovius, in his
Book, page 112, printed in the year 1585, says,
*Saturn and Jupiter, when in conjunction at the above mentioned
time, will be seen to rise before the Sun every morning, and appear
very beautiful to behold, being then morning stars.
42 ASTRONOMY,
- m":
that “after such Conjunctions will follow, or suc
ceed, mischievous and wicked councels, and de
testable acts, commotions or troubles, seditions,
wars, slaughters, killing in cities, kingdoms and
provinces; unknown or unheard of diseases, the
plague, the death of great men, INFINITE DIS
SENTIONS, AND NEW D1VERSITIES OF
OPINIONS IN RELIGION, AND GREAT
CALAMITIES IN MANY COUNTRIES OF
THE WORLD.”
All those parts of the habitable globe, that
will experience the direful effects of this Great
Celestial Appearance, may readily be discovered
from the Quality of those Signs, having hostile
irradiations with the place where this Conjunction
is celebrated. The writings of the Ancients inform
us, that the Conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter in
Aries, denotes “many commotions in foreign
realms, with wars, seditions, troubles, alteration
of laws, customs, privileges, and sometimes
plagues and famine, with desolation, anxiety, trea
sons, treacheries, and the death of Rulers, Nobles,
Emperors, and powers follow.” The learned
CARDAN also informs us, that great and Excessive
HEAT and DROUGHT, as well as INUNDATIONs, with
eatraordinary sultry blasts, and pestilent winds,
are to be expected at intervals during several
summers, in consequence of which GREAT siCKNEss
Es AND scARCITY will succeed in many places: the
industrious husbandman, who labors to enrich
himself by cultivating the ground, will too often
AND ELEMENTARY PHILosophy. 43
experience, that his sanguine hopes and expecta
tions will be blighted, by the UNGENIALITY of MANY
APPROACHING SEASONS.
I shall not presume to point at any particular
country, or place, where these baneful effects will
manifestly appear, but as I have examined prece
dents ofthelike nature, for more than one thousand
year's past, and, as“similar causes have in all cuses
produced similar effects,” we may therefore con
clude, that the most established facts cannot be
controverted: the Rev. W. WHistoN, M.A. in his
account of the surPRIsING MeteoR, seen in the Air
in the night of the 6th of March, 1716, informs us,
in page 76 of that work, that “a deluge or con
flagration, as I have elsewhere shewn, may be
brought about by a COMET, in its descent or
ascent, without the introduction ofanything strictly
supernatural or miraculous; and the reason is
plain, that nature is only God's appointed order
for his own Creatures’ operations, by powers deri
ved from himself; and therefore, he that foreknew
all things at first, could accordingly foreordain,
prepare, and pre-dispose any parts of his own
System; not only to foreshew, but really to bring
about, what acts of mercy or judgment he, in his
Divine Wisdom, shall think fit for his Creatures.
I am indeed under a peculiar temptation myself, to
wish and suppose, that this and the like unusual
Appearances, may be prognostics and For E-WARN
INGs of the coming of those GREAT CoNCUssions and
MUTATIONs, which I expect soon in the World.”
./
44 . AsTRONOMY,
- E- M-.
But though this learned Divine has given his
opinion concerning the indications of such Phoeno
mena, yet he, in the same Work, very justly con
demns the vulgar Astrology, and the jargon of
those illiterate pretenders, who too often deceive
the ignorant and unwary. I have no correspon
dence with any of those impostors, as they are men
destitute ofeducation, probity and good manners;
but their deficiencies are supplied with sIMPLE
sNEERs, ARTFUL INSINUATIONS, PRIDE, and self
conceit. There are manyof this tribe in several pla
ces,and there are some also that reside in the CITY of .
LINCoLN, who, in alehouses and other noted places,
prate about Calculating Nativities, Arcs of Di
rection, Poles of Positions, &c. when at the same
time it is PUBLICLY KNowN, that these PITIABLE
IMPostoRs are unable to write one sentence ofcom
mon sense. I therefore candidly advise such
Persons to learn to READ and write the English
Language correctly, before they commence “Doc
ToRs IN AsTRoNOMY.”
“It is well known, and ever, will befound,
“That empty vessels make the greatest sound.”
I am not disposed to pollute my pen any long
er with the filthy jargon of these illiterate impos
tors, as it might be deemed a digression, though
I presume not improper on this occasion: I shall
therefore proceed to relate some of the subsequent
Effects of this Conjunction under consideration. -
In the foregoing Figure of the Heavens, we find
both the Superiors deprived of all their essential
\
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. 45
=
dignities, in a violent Cardinal Sign, and also in a
subterraneous station. The Lord of the Ascendant
is, in his fall, and Jupiter is afflicted by Saturn,
without any benevolent assistance, which indicate
great and furious contentions to succeev in con
sequence of RELIGIOUS TENETS, &c. and as
Jupiter is Lord of the second, it forbodes great
losses, calamities, and MoRTALITY among mankind,
in many parts of the world; and the malevolence
is augmented by the violent position of Mars, who
is in a fixed sign, and conjoined with evil fixed
stars in his detriment, he being ruler and governor
of the place in which the Conjunction is celebrated;
we also find the Moon posited in a violent sign,
and applying to the square of Mars, who is an
gular, in consequence of which she partakes of his
obnoxious and destructive qualities. These posi
tions denote, that many who are now in apparent
affluent circumstances, shall, in a few years, be
brought low, even to the dust; their estates and
goods must for ever depart from them, and their
posterity, frequently by deceitful and treacherous
means. But as the effects of thisConjunction will con
tinue in operation, more or less, during TWENTY
YEARS from its first appearance, it is evident that
long before the expiration of thatperiod, the present
authors of affliction, sorrow and distress, residing
in widely extended Realms, must finally “pass
that bourn, from whence no travellers return.”
But some will probably say, how can the effects
of this Gonjunction operate on individuals, and
- - G
46 - AsTRoNoMY,
produce poverty and distress, with sickness, and
other numerous calamities, in distant regions? To
this I answer, that in all cases, when great Con
junctions fall upon the Angles of any Nativity, or
on the places of the Luminaries, then consequently
great troubles, and losses of various denominations,
will certainly follow; and when Directions fall in
the TERMs of the MALErics, near those parts of
heaven where the Conjunctions are celebrated, or
in square, or opposition to those places, then all
such persons, of whatever station in life, as have
such direetions and positions, shall experience great
damages, awful tribulation, and other personal
afflictions, &c. for a long time, or until the superior
Celestial Bodies are conjoined in a different Con
stellation.
. Hence we may learn, from the writings of the
Ancients, that great Conjunctions, when they meet
in the first constellation of the FIERY TRIGoN, are
always ominous and prejudicial to the health and
prosperity of mankind, and when their effects co
operate with those of a great Solar Eclipse, (as in
this case,) their influence then becomes of a still
more formidable nature. But as I have before ob
served, I shall not presume to ascertain those
parts of the world where these direful effects will
appear, though they may be readily discovered by
the ruling Stars, and governing signs ofthe various
Trigons; I frequently view with astonishment, the
elevated and dignified positions of the Celestial
Bodies at be time when NORTH AMERICA
AND ELEMENTARY PHILOSOPHY. 47
obtained her independence; the superior stations
of those Astral Significators that are her represen
tatives, most clearly forbode, that the time will
arrive, when THAT EMPIRE shall give Laws to
all Nations, and establish FREEDOM and LI
BERTY in every part of the habitable Globe.
From what has been advanced, it will appear
obvious to the meanest capacity, that the secret and
irresistible efficacy of these celestial appearances,
will not only operate on the inhabitants of many
surrounding nations, but will also extend their
effects to realms that are far remote. And there
fore, according to the rules of the Ancients, their
matural and occult operations will produce wars in
foreign nations, dissentions, tumults, violence, im
prisonments, sudden deaths, and mortal diseases, ori
ginating from Disorders of THE LUNGs, &c. dreadful
thunder and lightning may be expected in many
places, high-winds, tides, and violent tempests, with
many shipwrecksand unfortunate navigations. Ialso
predict great alterations in the weather, during
several years to come; the waters in the rivers will
be diminished at intervals, and springs dried up, so
that cattle in several places will receive great in
jury for want of water. These droughts of long
continuance will, at certain periods, be succeeded as
well as preceded, by uncommon wet weather, which
will cause great inundations; frost, snow, and
intense cold will abound in their seasons, which will
prove offensive and injurious to the seeds and fruits
of the earth. So that, from these observations, we
G 2
48 ASTRONOMY, -
=.
may infer, that the influence of this Grand Conjunc
tion of the Superiors in the Fiery Trigon, will, in
some measure, produce effects nearly similar to
those of the great Solar. Eclipse in the Earthy
Triplicity, which precede this great Conjunction in
its sideral influence and power. And, in addition to
what I have stated, I could easily ascertain and de
monstrate many other events of a remarkable
nature yet to come, was I at liberty to publish them;
therefore, so long as the heavens declare the glory
of God, the Celestial Bodies, as secondary causes,
will ever forebode and produce all those great
mutations and events of every denomination, which,
in the ETERNAL MIND of the ALMIGHTY CRE
ATOR, were known to him from the beginning of
the world. I shall therefore conclude my obser
wations with the words of the three holy Children,
“O ye winds of God! O ye fire and heat/ O ye
Jºrost and cold! O ye ice and snow! O ye seas and
floods? O ye lightnings and clouds! O all ye
works of the Lord! bless ye the Lord, praise him,
and magnify him for ever.”
AND ELEMENTAfty PHILOSOPHY, 49
TO THE
Asirablvaal's or aunt Ps.
*=
GENTILEMEN,
I HAVE long anticipated that some of you
would have favored the public with your sideral
judgment relative to the time of appearance, and
subsequent effects, of the approaching Solar Eclipse
and grand Conjunction; the first of which happens
in the EARTHY, and the latter in the FIERY TRIGoN,
But as all students and practitioners have at present
been silent concerning their operations and long
continued effects, I have in this small Work given
a general judgment on the efficacy of those very
extraordinary appearances in the heavens, which,
including all circumstances, cannot happen again
for more than two thousand years to come.
, You well know that the effects of this great
Eclipse and Conjunction thus united, will continue
in operation many years, so that great losses,
mortal diseases, and other direful calamities, will
be experienced by all those whose nativities are vi
olently infected in the manner I have described in
the preceding pages. But it is evident that great
solar Eclipses, aided by other malignant configu
rations of the superior Celestial Bodies, even when
*–”---
*- M
*. -
eombined with comets, meteors, and other strange
appearances in the heavens, cannot forbode and
produce scarcity, and pestilence to the whole world
at the same period. There are many great events
omitted in my judgment, which I am not disposed
to develope; I have no doubt but you are aware of
the nature of those events, and the astral testimonies
which indicate their commencement and termi
nation. These Celestial Appearances are awful
warnings to mankind, and most clearly forbode
many great and important transactions to ensue in
several parts of the world; though I am convinced
that many will despise all ancient authority, as well
as modern examples, and legal demonstration,
which manifestly tend to illustrate and prove the
verity of astral power in preceding ages. The
writings of the ancients abound with numerous
precedents, which evidently prove that great Con
junctions, Eclipses, Meteors, Comets, and other
extraordinary appearances in the sky, are always
of an ominous nature. And the authors of those
records assert, that in the ages in which they lived,
great mutations, awful calamities, and direful events,
of various denominations in NorthERN CLIMEs, have
always succeeded, as well as in several parts of
the habitable world, when those remarkable ap
pearances were visible in the heavens; for in
former ages, when men were nearer the stand
ard of purity than they are at present, it
cannot be supposed that they would have compiled
numerous volumes on the efficacy of sideral power
AND ELeMENTARY PHILOSOPHY". 51
am
with an intent to deceive succeeding generations,
In my intended publication, which will contain the
- full calculation of one hundred modern nativities,
I shall ascertain the correct time of all visible
Eclipses, and great Conjunctions, in the various
Trigons, for five hundred years to come, that the
students in succeeding ages may previously remark
the many great mutations, and eartraordinary
events, that will certainly succeed at those periods,
when time with me shall be no more. -
In my future publication, I shall prove, by nu
merous examples, founded on Astronomical Calcu
lation, that the time and quality of all important
events, during the life of any person, may be previ
ously known, when the time of birth is correctly
ascertained; and though this NoBLE scIENCE has been
traduced and brought in disrepute by the vulgar,
who villainously pretend to eacecute things which
human aid cannot perform, yet, in defiance of the
delusive pretences of such profligate impostors, I
anticipate that the time will arrive, when the pri
mitive principles of this sublime study will be
restored to their ancient splendor.
Iam not induced to address you, for the purpose
of proving the truth of Astrology in itsGenethliacal
and Mundane parts, because I presume you, that are
learned in Astronomical enquiries, have not been
deficient in ascertaining the original principles of
this sublime science by unerring examples, which
human reason is unable to oppose. The uncommon
positions and configurations of the Celestial Bodies,
52 AsTRONOMY,
as they were displayed in the heavens, on Monday
the 27th of January, 1817, at 3 o'clock in the after
noon, in north latitude 53° 3, will doubtless engage
your serious attention; I candidly confess that I
never beheld such alarming signs in the heavens of
a destructive nature, as those that were visible at
that moment : If you view the station of the Moon,
who represents the native's person in this case, you
will find that she has just quitted her own house,
and entered into a different constellation; but, alas /
when we view the Significators of the native's pub- .
lic and private enemies, who are all descending
tinto the house of DEATH, and at the same time
deliver an impartial judgment, founded on ancient
authority, we may then conclude, that several of
the PUBLIC and PRIVATE Foes of this native cannot
long survive the EFFECTs of the IMPENDING storM
that hovers over their guilty heads. Such persons,
and their chuldren, shall experience violent acci
dents, with great losses and afflictions, of vari
ous denominations, which willterminate in inevit
able ruin, imprisonment and death; for we
plainly observe, that the Celestial Bodies forebode,
that DIVINE VENGEANCE will hereafter be
eaceuted on the Foes of the Innocent.
I have the Honor to subscribe myself,
- GENTLEMEN,
Your faithful, and most obedient humble Servant,
JOHN WORSDALE, Senior.
LINcoLN, 1819.
53
ON THE COMET,
Which appeared in the Summer of 1819.
FroM endless Space, a MessENGER we view,
Which soon in Silence, bid us all adieu;
His direful attitude, plainly presage,
GREAT EVILS coming on the present Age;
Pause then, thou Infidel,—consider GOD
Will soon chastise thee with an awful ROB;
Sneer at HIS TOKENS yet a while thou may,
And with the Atheist, conclude and say,
“This is the work of Nature,”—but, my Friend,
On Nature's GOD, let us alone depend:
In Ages past, the Learned wrote to show
A COMET's presage on this Earth below;
They plainly State, when we such Signs descry,
They are fore-warnings of Mutations nigh;
With MORTAL SICKNESS raging far and wide,
Which Man alarm, and LEVEL HUMAN PRIDE;
GREAT DROUGHTS;—In distant Realms, and from afar,
Will follow FAMINE, PLAGUE, and horrid War:
With CONFLAGRATIONS, awful to behold,
This Myst'ry's great, which I shall not unfold;
Repeated INUNDATIONS, RAIN, and SNOW,
In their due Seasons, oft will overflow -
Large tracts of Land, in spite of human Aid,
Whose Owners soon must in the dust be laid;
The Occupiers ruin'd, bid FAREWELL,
And live confined in a lonely Cell;
Many made great through VILLANY, I know,
Will, in the end, complete their OVERTHROW;
H
54
DISGRACE will ever mark the paths they tread,
While living, or till Numbered with the Dead; -
Their OFFsPRING, too, their SABLE DEEDS embrace,
Which end in RUIN, and in SAD DISGRACE.
Were I to treat on other dismal Woes,
A scene of Horror I should soon disclose;
But that is not my wish,-I humbly Write
On the EFFECTS of this UNCOMMON SIGHT,
Therefore from ANCIENT RECORD, I declare,
This MESSENGER DIVINE bid us prepare,
Before the Tempests howl in yonder Sky,
Their course to check, all human aid defy:
EcLIPs Es—METEo Rs—EARTHQUAKEs—CoMETs:-All
Forebode great Troubles on Mankind to fall;
IN FOREIGN CLIMES;—Alas! the fertile Plain,
Through ScorchING HEAT, will yield but little Grain;
TEMPESTS and FLOODS will very oft annoy
The Stately Crops, and part of them destroy:
Tremendous Thunders Roll, and from the Sky,
Fierce Lightnings flash, most awful to the Eye.
Many condemn, (in this enlighten’d Age,)
Those Signs recorded in the Sacred Page;
Which are set forth to Man, it plain appears,
For Seasons, and for Days, as well as Years:
The facts I state, TIME will at last explain,
And prove the Ancients have not Wrote in vain:
Therefore to “ONE GOD, FATHER OF US ALL,”
I bow submissive to HIS SOLEMN CALL,
Whose WOND’ROUS WORKS I humbly will explore,
Till Time with me on Earth shall be no more.
john &orgljale, $tn".
65
THE NATIviTIEs that were intended to be given
in this Work, will be included in the future intend
ed Publication of this Author, which will contain
the full Calculation of one HUNDRED NATIVITIEs,
with all the Directions in the ZoDIAC and MUNDo
complete, comprising their NATURAL EFFECTs. The
Manuscript, now ready, will be committed to the
Press as soon as the Author has received the Names
of a sufficient number of Subscribers.
THosE Persons afflicted with Disorders of various
denominations, may, if they think proper, commu
nicate the Time and Place of their Birth, by Letter
(post paid) to the Author of this Work, in the CITY
of LINcoln, in order that the Nature and Origin of
the disease may be truly ascertained, and a Reme
dy prescribed for all curable Disorders, by the
ANCIENT RULES OF ELEMENTARY PHI
LOSOPHY.
ASTRONOMICAL LECTURES, on the
NEWTONIAN THEORY, as usual.
THE Author of this Publication will undertake
to calculate the Nativity of any Person, when the
true time and place of birth is communicated to
him; he also pledges himself to point out, and
ascertain the time and quality of every important
event during the life of any individual, both past,
present, and to come.
56
ORIGINAL Tables of Oblique Ascensions, for as
certaining the true Oblique Ascension of any
Planet under any Pole of Position from one to sixty
degrees, and from one to nine degrees of North
and South Latitude, may at any time be had of the
Author of this Work, with Examples for directing
any Significator in the Zodiac and Mundo, accor
ding to the genuine Rules and Precepts of the
immortal Ptolemy.
| THE SPHERoids, on Brass, for the Calculation of Nativities,
with each proper Index, for ascertaining every true Arc of Direction
in the ZoDIAC and MUNDo, by which more than one hundred
Directions may be correctly brought up and equated in a few hours,
including all necessary Instructions, may, at any time, be had of the
Author of this Work, price Six Guineas each.
-
J. Dawson, Printer, Stockport,
