{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1caroline_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Caroline J Probable NDE 7744","mylang":"de"}
          	        Caroline J Probable NDE 7744  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Caroline J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3988 Caroline J Probable NDE 7744  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was with my paternal grandmother, who had died ten years before I was born. I felt so much love and so safe. I was SO disappointed when I came back into my body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  While under general anesthesia.    Other: severe plasma cholinesterase deficiency on both sides of family - caused a coma  The doctors didn't know why I was in a coma until an expert was brought in who identified the deficiency as being one of the most profound cases he had ever seen.  Severe plasma cholinesterase deficiency on both sides of family - caused a coma

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Out-of-ego self the awareness and interconnectivity is profound.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in my grandmother's arms. I felt weightless yet she was holding me with so much love.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Much more aware, more awesome.  There was so much love, which has led me to do a great amount of ayahuasca and DMT.  [Editor’s Notation: Ayahuasca (vine of the soul) is a powerfully psychedelic South America vine. The vine is purported to have visionary and healing properties; and viewed as sacred medicine from the Amazon. DMT is the name for a hallucinogenic drug, which comes from plants in the Amazon.]

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was not aware of any before but have been very intuitive and out there as a result my entire life.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother, whom I had never met.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   Beautiful light that was an aura of sorts.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       LOVE

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I have never feared death.  My husband passed out of physical form July 7, 2015.  He has already made contact and given me instructions on how to better access my pineal gland to reach him.  He took me through a portal and we journeyed the night he left in physical form.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment   Christian but I had no attachment as I was too young.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I practice mediation and yoga daily.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Select   Spiritual - drawn to Swedenborg.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had NEVER experienced that much love...

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My parents became concerned because I was, and still am, fearless.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   She was just holding me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Yes - it exists - I KNOW there are parallel universes...

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt so much love - was upset she sent me back. VERY upset when I woke up - felt guilty 'cause my mother was SO happy that I woke up and I wanted to go back to my Grand mother.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I can't define my beliefs, yet I am VERY spiritual.     I can't define my beliefs, yet I am VERY spiritual.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Comfort in knowing.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I see auras and feel the truth of people behind their facade. I often have spirits communicate with me, which feels like an extra sense.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I KNOW I will be with my husband in physical form and that he will come for me when it's my time. He is my twin flame and our telepathic communication was and is still strong. He left in pure light and love and isn't coming back. Many of the world's described in Swedenborg and with the book ‘Proof of Heaven’ were identical to what many experienced when I was in Peru doing an 11-day ayahuasca retreat with my husband. Those who struggle with life here struggled with life there, parallel universes.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It changed me. I always knew things. I was a child, so it has been a very organic part of my human experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It became my truth at such a young age and something I have just always known.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I continue to journey with DMT and ayahuasca. My husband and I spent years de-calcifying our pineal glands, which helped both of us with his cancer.  He was such a healthy man in his 50's. While I miss him so much in human form, I know it was his time and there must be something I am meant to do (most likely with him) until I pass over.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   DMT journeys and ayahuasca

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       If someone has a dark journey, it is often because they have darkness in their hearts. The doctor who wrote ‘Proof of Heaven’ didn't realize that the hell state he first crossed into is for those who have darkness. He battled alcoholism; we cross to our comfort zone.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1caroline_j_probable_nde.html