{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carole_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Carole C NDE 4266","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carole C NDE 4266  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carole C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2089 Carole C NDE 4266  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The near-death experience I had was not as spectacular as some I have read about, but the epiphany certainly was.

Yes, I did. I had attempted suicide for the umpteenth time. This time I left notes for all my family. I did my best to avoid anyone discovering my actions and me. I left no warning of this to anyone either.

I had taken a potpourri of downers. Since I worked at a local pharmacy, I was well aware of the meds I consumed. I went to bed that night, hoping never to wake up again.

SURPRISE!

In the meantime, I saw my body lying there on the bed, from the corner ceiling of my bedroom behind my bedroom door. I remember my friends dragging me off the bed, trying to get me to walk.

There were two others with me in the ceiling (so to speak). We were discussing my life. I can remember bickering with them. I did not want to go back to my life. I suppose they were displaying to me all the reasons why I should. This is basically all I remember now.

All of a sudden I remember being in the hospital, on a gurney. I remember muttering many things.

From there it has been a twenty-two year journey to where I am right now.

I will say this; I believed in the Lord God then but all that I have been through and learned since has given me faith beyond faith. If it were not for the Lord God, I never would have known just how truly beautiful life could be. Praise the Lord God! I thank Him every day for my life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Suicide attempt  'I was a pharmacy assistant and knew well, the drugs I overdosed with.'  Other I have no idea how close I was...  Suicide overdose.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I was not conscious during this time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was not conscious during this time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't really know how to describe this.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The out-of-body vision was clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything the people around my body were saying plus, those beings who were with me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were with me, my 'spirit'. I did not know them. My life was discussed.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I seemed to be arguing with those beings who were with me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Definitely! My life was changed, 360 degrees.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I believed in the Lord God.  Baptized Methodist.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am definitely stronger in my faith.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   One of faith

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am definitely stronger in my faith.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes From the point of losing all to building a solid foundation to last the rest of my life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   There is so much I do not remember anymore.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The gifts of loving and giving. The perseverance and endurance to do the Lord's work, unconditionally.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I absolutely and most profoundly, did not want to go back to my life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many times. People really don't understand or really care, because it does not pertain to them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was still in shock and extremely lethargic for a long time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My experience has definitely given me 'purpose' to the rest of my life.  I have helped others who are in similar circumstances as I was, to the point of risking the loss my family and marriage.  But the Lord God persevered!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My life experiences, beliefs and sharing can all be observed on Yahoo Answers under the avatar: Glow wings.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I cannot think of any.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carole_c_nde.html