{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carolane_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Carolane B NDE 7205","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carolane B NDE 7205  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carolane B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3658 Carolane B NDE 7205  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was with a girlfriend of my age and two of my sisters, who were age 6 and 4 years old. We were sitting on a surrounding stonewall which had a height of approximately 4-5 meters (12-15 feet) at the back of the garden, and we were talking. The wall was old and not very strong anymore.

At one moment, I leaned my hand on a stone on the right side of the wall and the stone fell and took me along in its fall. I closed my eyes while falling and after this, I felt like it was a black hole. I didn't feel pain and all was black around me yet I could still think. I asked myself, ‘Am I dreaming?’ There was no sound around me, all was calm and I wasn't scared, I felt good. It was as if I was sleeping, but still aware of everything. Then I heard crying. I figured out that it was my little sisters who were crying but I didn't feel any sorrow. 

Then I heard a voice that said, ‘You have to open your eyes, go on try.’ I could think and hear, but it was as if I couldn't control my body anymore, only my mind. All at once, I opened my eyes. I couldn't see well, everything looked fuzzy. I tried to get up but I lost my balance and fell back in a seated position. I felt something on my face and at that moment, I didn't know that it was my blood. I was told later that I had landed head first on the stone that fell with me.

Then the mother of my friend, having been informed about my accident, came via another path and brought me to the hospital. I got stitches on my head and my nose was broken. I also remember that at the moment when I was unconscious, it was as if I was floating in the air in a lying position. I felt good, at peace.

The duration of this seemed to last for hours, but I was told that I was unconscious for no more than ten minutes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Avril 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident. Direct head injury    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My sisters crying was confirmed to me later.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was unconscious.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed long very long to me.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was worse than usual.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was better than usual.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   All was black around me, but not blackness like in the night. Not a blackness that raises fear, a pleasant blackness, peaceful.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I was somewhere nobody had fear, a calm and restful place.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt at peace, well, no pain, and no fears.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now believe in a life after death.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Je ne suis pas croyante du tout mais je pense que la vie ne s'arrete pas après la mort, il y à autre chose.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     At present I believe more in something after death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   The voice that told me to open my eyes was unknown to me. It was a calm voice, not aggressive, a woman's voice.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     je ne sais pas si la noirceur ou je me suis trouvée était un "monde" différent.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     Je ne sais pas si la vie persiste après la mort mais je sais que mourir n'est pas douloureux à présent. Que ça ne fait pas peur, ni mal et que l'on se sent bien.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Certain things are hard to explain with words to describe them. One should be able to show it in pictures to be able to get it precisely.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was not like in a dream and even today, this remained very clear for me. I still remember everything.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was not like in a dream and even today, this remained very clear for me. I still remember everything.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carolane_b_nde.html