{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carol_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Carol V NDE 6567","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carol V NDE 6567  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carol V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3243 Carol V NDE 6567  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					

  					 My Ever After Chronicles &nbsp; Check it out at:&nbsp; Click Here


  				    Experience Description</h3>  					  					I froze to death, at twelve years old.

It was around three in the morning, January 6, 1963. My family had just returned from our holiday vacation to a frigid house that had no heat or electricity or water, due to an ice storm earlier that evening. The temperature inside the house was below freezing.  We went to icy-cold beds thinking we would deal with the situation in the morning. We were all exhausted from the all-night drive. My body temperature plummeted and hypothermia set in. I was totally numb. 

Then my spirit (essence) left my body. I traveled up past my body, up through the ceiling of my room and through the roof of our house. I kept going. I traveled through time, space, and void toward a light. As I traveled, I experienced a life review. My grandfather's soul greeted me on the other side, where I encountered many other souls, entities, light beings, and angels. I had experiences and visited realms that were unlike anything within our human contexts. I recognized great masters such as Buddha, Krishna, and others whom I have no names for but were perfect beings while on Earth. 

I experienced light beings who were ‘knowledge’ and gave me answers to all the questions of the universe. It was universal truth and knowledge. I experienced Christ, and finally I experienced total, complete, and perfect light, love, joy. The God Consciousness. I understood how we are all part of this amazing frequency that is God’s resonance. I was told it was not my time to stay and that I was being sent back to my twelve-year-old body. I was given information and a mission. I was then immediately sent back, against my protests. 

Gravity hit me at one point and that was the most painful part of the whole experience. Gravity! When I came to, I was dazed.  My sister, who slept next to me, was crying and visibly upset. She had been trying to wake me because she knew something was horribly wrong. I had stopped breathing and was lifeless. She thought I had died.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'January 6, 1963'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Other: Froze to death in bed due to below freezing temperatures in house for extended period of time.  The temperature in our house was below freezing due to lack of electricity and heat.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I do not remember, yet.  Who knows, it may come back to me. At this time, I do not remember.  Two years ago when I visited the house I died in, in France, I was shown the attic, and though I had never been allowed up there as a child, I remember passing through it on my way to the other side. This happened when I was up there just recently!  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt real and overwhelmingly loved and joyous.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At all times!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is no time! Time is something created for our human experience to help us by giving us definitive parameters to exist within. This is not to say there is not an order to everything outside the human experience.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was beyond words, beyond anything our human minds can comprehend.   Example:  Here is like a grainy black and white tiny television screen of the 1950’s. There is like a 3D Technicolor huge IMAX screen where you can almost taste and smell plus feel that you are totally part of the vision experience.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was heightened in ways that simply do not exist here, and I became one with the sounds I heard. I communicated without talking, without words.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I passed through space. Our minds need to put a familiar name to our experiences, yet this was beyond any human experience and reference. The best I can do is ‘space.’

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandfather stands out the most in my memory. I remember my son, and many, many others that I have recognized during my lifetime and continue to recognize.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Pixilated light! (That is the best I can do.)

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Too much information to write here. If you read my book, it is in there. The short answer is yes! I was part of a world that was amazing!

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy! Love! Happiness beyond anything I can describe. Contentment. Complete perfection. Rapture! I knew I was part of everything and everyone and God. Maybe it is better said this way: We are all Connected.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was shown everything there is to see, was given (and I absorbed) the answers to every question imaginable, and then some. I was in total harmony with all. I was part of everything, and yet I was myself.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I know they did, but I don't remember at this time. I do know my son and I agreed that I would be his mother and assist him while he is here on earth. He is an amazing person!

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No     I am not sure what you are asking here. Where I was, there are no boundaries!

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   There was never a border.  My experience just kept expanding! I was in an amazing place with no boundaries, basking in infinite love and joy and part of ‘God Consciousness,’ when I understood that I was going to be sent back to my life on earth.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I was twelve and attended a Presbyterian Church, Baptist Church (many of my fathers family were ministers and in the ministry), and USAF Christian Chapel with my family.  I loved that my father was so steadfast in his belief and tried to understand as best I could what he saw in his faith.  My mother was an excommunicated Catholic who went to church occasionally but clearly was not comfortable and felt out of place.  Believe  it or not, when we visited Joan of Arc's museum in Rouen,France, I felt a kindred spirit to her, like I personally knew her, and was impressed by her religious zeal.  She made a huge impression  in my faith.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Absolutely.  I get frustrated with organized Christian religions that I am familiar with. I am a believer in Christ only because I remember Christ from the other side. He was/is awesome!

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       No comment   I attended Christian Church's until I was 28, trying to find the answers to all my unanswered questions.  Nothing made sense to me.  I was searching for some long lost memory that was somewhere inside.  I had forgotten my NDE by then.  I studied every Bible i could get my hands on because I felt the words were somehow ... off.  I was looking for a Bible that had the TRUE words in it. I knew in my heart that I would know it when I saw, read it.  What I was looking for was the original text.  I am still looking for the new testament in Aramaic.  I am most comfortable studying the Course In Miracles and attending services at Center for Positive Living, Science of the Mind, Unity and Jewish Temples, than I am going to Church.  My husband and son are Jewish and so we celebrate everything at my home.  Mostly for the traditional fun of it.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     My experience was nothing like what I was taught to believe as a child.  It was light-years passed what I had been told heaven was like.  There is no language to describe what I experienced.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   First, I noticed I was not alone. There were other ‘light’ beings (spirits/souls/entities/angels). Then my grandfather's essence greeted me. He died before I was born!

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   YES!  I was aware of beings who resonated at very high frequencies who we call perfect masters... I did not know about Buddha, Krishna, Muhammad ect. back then so I was not able to identify them, but I recognized them and knew they had existed on earth as

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I remembered being there before was born and I saw that I would return after I die, again.  I will go "HOME" again.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     ABSOLUTELY !!!! WE ARE ALL CONNECTED!!!!

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     I experienced what GOD is.  Different from all other entities I encountered, GOD is the Alpha and Omega and so perfect and saturated in LIGHT and JOY and LOVE that there is no room for anything but perfection.  I have a whole chapter just describing GOD, in my book.  My Ever After Chronicles.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was shown (it was downloaded into me) knowledge beyond our human comprehension and also given a special assignment to carry out here on earth.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I Experienced (saw... was shown) meanings and purposes of earthly beings.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I experienced and understood that not only is there life after death but before too.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Way too many to list here.  I am constantly thrilled to discover that someone has given a lifetime of study to various aspects of some of the "UNIVERSAL" knowledge & wisdom that was "downloaded" into my "heavenly" spirit, soul, light- being.  Examples:  Universal Harmonics, The Golden Ratio, Fibonacci Sequence, Flower of Life... to name a few.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I understood how we get to make choices and choose how we interpret everything that happens in our life.  By doing this we get to control how our life plays out, while it is playing out. I saw how EVERY SINGLE INCIDENT that we encounter as human is part o

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     LOVE is really all there is!!!!!!!!  LOVE realized in "the experience" is BEYOND HUMAN COMPREHENSION!!!  As humans we would probably explode if love was experienced without filters.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     At twelve I had to go to church with my parents; I enjoyed Sunday school and our minister gave great sermons. However, once I had my experience, I felt I knew all the answers to Christianity and that the church was misrepresenting Christ and his teachings.  Oops, not a popular view for a twelve year old. I remember saying to my family and minister (right after the experience) that there are other ‘masters’ and that our way of believing is not the only way. That god loves everyone and not just Presbyterians and Baptists. That all people are going to be ok after we die and that what we are taught here does not make sense.   Today I am aligned with spiritual beliefs that encompass universal truths.  As a rule, I do not go to church or temple. I go sailing, for long walks on the beach, star gaze, listen to music, wind chimes, crystal bowls, and I love nature! I do pray, meditate, sing, write, draw, paint, intend and attend services from time to time. I am part of weekly groups: Course In Miracles and The Intenders Group. I am a ‘Spiritual’ computer surfer.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I tolerate and love everyone. (Well, almost everyone.)  I have lived in harmony with my husband (who is my polar opposite) for over thirty-plus years.  I grow more and more in love with each passing day. This truly is inspired by heaven! I taught my son to always acknowledge every person he encounters by looking into their eyes and really, really listening to what they have to say. He gets it (and understands) too! We are all connected and we all just want to be acknowledged. That is a specific result of my experience. Remembering that each and every one of us is special, is a gift, and that we are all connected!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There is no language; there are no words adequate to describe the experience. The experience transcends anything within the human imagination, realm.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I have a vague memory of life events that occured around the time of my experience.  MY EXPERIENCE is crystal clear and I remember even more and more, the more I think about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I always known ‘things,’ I've always had a good imagination and I was and still am very creative. I know that anything is possible! My life is a miracle!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not really. It was/is all amazing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my parents and siblings my experience, immediately after I returned. I told our minister within a week and was ordered not to mention it ever again. They we all upset with me and thought I had lost my mind. They did not believe me and thought it was a dream.  Again, this was 1963 and I was twelve years old.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   In 1963, in my world, this was unheard of. The only one who died and came back was Jesus. End of story!

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that what had happened, happened. But no one else understood or believed me. Very frustrating for me. Very confusing.  Add that to trying to make sense of and merge the supernatural experience with my life here, and it was even more bizarre and distracting. I felt a higher calling but was not of an age to be able to follow my heart and soul and spirit. I went from the highest of highs to a deep sadness. I was forbidden to complete my mission. I was ordered to never talk about my experience ever again. I was devastated!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The more I hear and read about others who have had similar experiences, the more excited I get.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I will have to think about this.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Read my book!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carol_v_nde.html