{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carol_s_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Carol S Possible NDE 4601","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carol S Possible NDE 4601  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carol S Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2323 Carol S Possible NDE 4601  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My memory of what occurred was I was in labor with our first child; my husband was driving truck long haul at the time and was not able to be with me. My labor was very intense and long, working on 26 hours of labor; those days a cesarean section was not so readily done as it would be done today. My mother and mother-in-law sat with me through the long hours of labor. I remember going in and out of being awake phases, but at one point I do recall feeling so at peace, being in a field of the most beautiful flowers, blue sky, peaceful light emitting all around me. I recall being alone in the field and having no pain, just a wonderful, wonderful warm experience where I wanted to stay. Being brought back to reality by the nurse, stating they needed to get me into the delivery room. I remember looking down and seeing myself bathed in blood all around me and on the bed. I did deliver a baby boy, whom I am truly blessed was okay. It was days later that my mother-in-law told me she was so scared that I was dying. I had said verbatim, 'Oh, I wish Jim (my husband) was here, it's so beautiful here.' She then went to find a nurse.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 22, 1977'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Childbirth    Other: Long and difficult labor  Bridge between life and death?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would think when the nurse was able to awaken me, whereas when I heard get me to delivery, I remember the warm feeling was jerked from me bringing back the pain.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Not the feeling of a light that would blind you, but a warm brightness, like a perfect sun filled day, everything in that brief moment was perfect in every sense of the way.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     beautiful field of flowers, more like a meadow that was endless in any direction

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       So peaceful, did not want to return, extreme contentment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Even though I am not a practicing Catholic, I have a great amount of faith in God, and belief that there will be a peaceful place once we do die.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Even though I am not a practicing Catholic, I have a great amount of faith in God, and belief that there will be a peaceful place once we do die.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just recall the peaceful surroundings I was in. I did not want to come back to where I had left. I felt like I had been there forever, which sounds odd as there was no feeling of time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Thirty years or so. What brought this back to me after lying dormant for so long, my very good friend's mother had died with her present after being ill for a very short time. We were sitting in 'Barnes and Nobles' drinking a cup of coffee and she told me at one point shortly before she passed on, she had told her daughter that it was so beautiful where she was. My memory awakened from my experience that happened so many years ago, and now I remember and recall the beautiful experience I felt at the time. Her reaction, being a very religious person was peace, knowing that her mother was at peace.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This was really not remembered until my friend and I visited a few months ago after the death of her mother, whom had stated shortly before her actual death, she had said it was so beautiful where she was.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If I was able to go back to that day, and have the option to stay, I would have stayed. The serenity of the experience that has awakened in me makes me long for that experience again.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carol_s_possible_nde.html