{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carol_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Carol S NDE 6410","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carol S NDE 6410  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carol S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3144 Carol S NDE 6410  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I suddenly became very sick. My mother took me to my grandmother’s house, which was nearby. When we got in her front yard, I heard a loud buzzing in my ear that got louder and louder, and then I fainted. 

I felt fine again, no longer sick. In fact, I felt wonderful. I never knew what happiness was before that moment. The joy was unbelievable. Then I became aware of a disturbance below me: my step-grandfather slapping my face, trying to revive me. My grandmother was hysterically screaming, ‘she's dead, she's dead!’ My mother began to shake me, screaming, ‘she's not dead!’ All the while this was going on, I felt at peace. It was as if I was separated from them and in my own little la-la land, but yet I was aware of what was happening. It was like the bible says, ‘joy unspeakable and full of glory’. Their agony and grief did not disturb my peace. I stopped paying attention to them for a while. I just looked around. Everything looked beautiful. 

All of a sudden, I felt a thud. I felt so sick again. I felt very angry that they made me come back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   Unconsciousness due to illness.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was a complete flip-flop. I was shy and depressed. During the experience, I understood everything was wonderful and good.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I left my body

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was very vivid. Color was brighter

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Their voices of distress did not bother me. Almost like selective hearing or feeling.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great joy

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I felt I was one with everything. Nothing could hurt me. Nothing was wrong.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   was not attending any church services at the time

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more open- minded. I respect all religions. I do not belong to any one church belief.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I never believed I could feel such love and peace at the same time.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     No fear of death. I know there is love and joy awaiting me.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     Only a feeling of belonging, connecting.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Just a feeling of love coming from somewhere. I knew it was all ok. There must be a god. There was no end

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew everything would be alright if I died. I had always been afraid of death before then. I had a feeling of love coming from somewhere. I knew it was all okay. There must be a god. There was no end. I had a feeling of belonging and connecting.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Only thing that mattered was love.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I knew everything would be alright if I died. I had always been afraid of death before then,

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Only love matters. No other feelings.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Everthing was love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I do not fear death. I look forward to it. No, I long for it. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It has remained vivid in my mind. I will never forget it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I just know things are going to happen.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No fear of death. I know there is love and joy awaiting me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was sick for 3 days after the experience.  When I was well, I told my mother. She said I was out of it and just dreamed it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I knew what I felt, but I did not know what a NDE was until I read about it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     After I read in a magazine about NDEs, I knew that's what happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only love matters. No other feelings.  I feel all silly, negative feelings don't matter on the other side.  I never believed I could feel such love and peace at the same time. It has remained vivid in my mind. I will never forget it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carol_s_nde.html