{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carol_m_nde_4773.html","mytitle":"Carol M NDE 4773","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carol M NDE 4773  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carol M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2519 Carol M NDE 4773  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember telling the nurse that I felt very badly. She asked me what I felt and I told her that it felt as though I had something stuck inside my chest, as if I had swallowed many pills. (I had not taken any pills as all medications were being administered intravenously.) I was getting ready for surgery due to placenta previa. It was five months into my pregnancy and my placenta had detached. I was under intensive medical care since. I felt that I could barely breathe because of the pressure on my chest. My body felt numb. The nurse told me that this was normal given my state. The heart rate monitor showed the slowing of the heart rates of both my baby and me. I was concerned for the baby and kept asking about her condition. I felt worse as time went by. I told the nurse that I did not feel my legs and she told me that this was normal. Every time I moved, I would bleed. The nurse sat beside me and massaged my legs, which were numb. The room I was in was very small, barely enough room for a bed, chair and some medical supplies. The walls were painted pink. There was a television set hanging on the wall.

All of a sudden, the room went from small to very large and the walls were now white. Like a camera flash, the television set disappeared and where it hung I saw angels descending, dressed in white. In the center was JESUS with arms crossed and he stood by the foot of the bed. He did not say anything to me. The angels started to touch me from my fingertips all the way to my head but without touching my stomach, which glowed in a brilliant yellow. It was as if I had a light bulb inside my belly. At this point I felt nothing but great PEACE, no pain whatsoever. I came to realize that I was in heaven, by the clouds. I saw a beautiful field and a path where my three other children stood. They were looking upwards and looked very sad. My husband had made me suffer a lot and I never saw him. I don't remember anything else beyond that point.

When I came to, I was in the intensive care unit with tubes all over my body and oxygen. They had me in a near-seated position. My family was in the room and the nurse was giving instructions. They were all crying. When they realized that I had opened my eyes, the nurse asked if I knew who I was. I said 'yes' and told them my name. She then asked me for my telephone number and home address. I responded with confidence but the numbers were not correct. They then moved me to my room and it was the same nurse that stayed with me. The nurse hugged me and started to cry. She said that I had given her a big scare and that it was a MIRACLE. After all of this, I became famous at the hospital. I lost my uterus but gained my life and that of my daughter.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  julio del 2001 y el 2 de agosto

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   The nuns came into my room with holy oils and communion. The nurse told them to leave when she realized what they were there for. By this time I felt that my heart was slowing and a tingling feeling in my body in addition to a feeling of being paralyzed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I never knew what was happening to me, not even when I found myself above my children.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors and people were a little darker.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus and angels. He said nothing to me. He only looked at me with a lot of love.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   When Jesus and his angels came down.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     solo estaba entre las nuves

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Nothing, I just observed my children from a distance as they became progressively smaller.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that God exists and is always with us even if we do not deserve it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am closer to God and I speak to him since I now know that he is listening.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am closer to God and I speak to him since I now know that he is listening.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have always been very loving and generous but I am now more so and I listen to everyone that has something to say since many times they do not believe it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was difficult to express what I felt when the white light enveloped my body and the yellow light my belly.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No, there was not.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    And they see me differently and know that I saw Jesus. They cried when I told them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was conscious when the unexplainable light filled the room. The light did not stop shining at any point in time. Not even when they came and rubbed my legs. I was covered by the light with the exception of my belly which was in a yellow light.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Like a miracle and a personal healing from God.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes, ask if the family believe in what happened.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carol_m_nde_4773.html