{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carol_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Carol M NDE 3557","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carol M NDE 3557  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carol M NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1616 Carol M NDE 3557  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I gave birth to my second child, I was afraid of the pain and asked for anesthesia. When they gave it, I also took in oxygen to breathe. At first, all I wanted to do was close my eyes so that my mother couldn't see the pain I was in. I began thinking I was afraid of not waking up from the anesthesia they gave me and I thought it would be well to try and stay conscious, not allowing myself to go completely under (if this is possible to do). I put my attention on the sounds and at first, they were normal, then it seemed they grew more and more faint little by little until I did not, or could no longer hear them.

I began seeing everything white around me, like this blank page to write on. At the same time, I felt a presence as if someone was with me and began explaining to me about some doubts I had at one time. Not with words, but with images and perhaps telepathy since I do not remember hearing a voice. But, I could understand everything he said and it was all so clear and obvious that I wondered how I could not have understood this before and that my mother would also be happy to know it.

I understood that everything good and bad happened for a purpose. That God hopes the devil will understand that God is so good that notwithstanding all the bad the devil does God is unable to cause harm to him. When the devil understands such great love, this whole world system will come to an end and all will know this other world that people such as I try to describe so poorly. I understood that God is everywhere because the material world hides what scientists so earnestly seek; even the smallest part of material creation is God.

I understood that the brain of a child is capable of learning because its neurons are able to take information as if it were given very slowly, extra slowly, extremely slowly, s-l-o-w-l-y.

I understood that death is more difficult for those left behind, that life on the other side is really what is important and that this earth life is just a little school.

There are a few other things that I saw and learned but I can't remember clearly what they were because more than a year has elapsed and what I just mentioned above was, for the moment, what impressed me the most.

In the midst of this explanation, I could feel the extreme love that being gave to me. I felt happier than a child in the lap of its mother. At the same time, I felt so privileged to have that experience and I tried not to forget about my daughter, my husband and my mother. I understood that if I stayed any longer in that world, in that space, I would not be able to return to this life. When I thought about this, I slowly began to return until I could hear sounds normally (at first they were unrecognizable because they were so slow, as if they were being spoken letter by letter). I than realized that each letter joined with another and another to create a word, and that these words make a sentence, and that this sentence has meaning, and that this meaning is what made me return to earth life.

When I opened my eyes, I realized how much pain I was in, and I was in a birthing room. Within my reality, when I closed my eyes it was as if I was immediately back in that place of peace, love and happiness. I was like that three more times, opening and closing my eyes and dreaming again (if it was a dream).

The last thing I remember was that I began listening and understanding my mother who spoke to me in Spanish, then the doctor who spoke to me in English, and I saw the Arabic word 'Bismilah' (the name of God) written as if floating in space. I said this word and I repeated it and I then realized it was the doctor saying this when my daughter was born. (It's customary for Muslims to say this word before any event where we want God's protection and care).

When I woke up completely and everything had ended, the first thing I did was see my daughter and then tell my mother what I thought I had seen. But of course, my mother believes even today that it was the drugs they gave me. I believe I was on the other side and if my mother hadn't been there talking to me, I would have been unable to return or I would have gone into coma or I would have died.

For this reason, I firmly believe that if someone goes into coma it is because they are left alone and they are left in a trance unable to return. It's important to talk ceaselessly to those who are in coma so they can come back. For people in this state, as I already explained, sounds are heard very slowly and have no meaning.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  '24 de Noviembre, 2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Childbirth    Other Anestesiada  From the time I began to give birth and I found out I was going to get the anesthesia along with oxygen, I was afraid I wouldn't wake up. For this reason I tried to hold onto something that would make me return, like the sounds in the room, for example, and the voice of my mother.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was communicating telepathically with someone I supposed was around me answering my questions about life. About three times when the anesthesia was insufficient, I opened my eyes and realized I was in extreme pain and I suddenly returned to the other state I was in as if nothing had happened and continued on with the explanations of life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't exist there. I understood that time is what makes our minds slow in order to understand what is evident and obvious about what limits us.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt at times like I was seeing images from a vantage point a little above everything (for example when I thought I saw the devil himself), then a little lower than everything else (when I saw the scriptures in space). At the same time, everything else was white like this sheet space I'm writing on.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sounds seemed to go away and then get closer and they seemed slower or faster according to my state of awakening.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     At one point I concentrated my attention on something and I believed my eyes could see what was inside an atom. This process seemed like traveling inside a tunnel in order to go from the general to the particular. I thought if I continued looking into the beyond, what awaited me at the end was the face of God himself.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the Devil committing abuses and later how he repented and prostrated himself before God and embraced the majesty and glory of God.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Light surrounded everything. I was a part of the light. Like when one closes their eyes and everything is black. I saw everything as white but at the same time I saw the images that appeared as if floating.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderment, surprise, happiness, peace, protection, love. Everything there is positive in this world.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that my children weren't going to have any trouble learning the three languages that surrounded them every day: English, Spanish, Arabic.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Later I began dreaming about cyclones and this has lately expanded to include the whole world and to dream about events that were going to happen, like the failure of a project my husband was working on and several other things.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I want God to come first in my life. I try to have this be the case in everything I do.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I want God to come first in my life. I try to have this be the case in everything I do.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I understood that all good and bad happens for a purpose. That God wants the Devil to understand that God is so good that not even with all the bad the Devil does, God cannot do any harm to him. When the Devil understands such great love, this whole world or system of things will come to an end and everyone will experience this other world that people like me try so poorly to describe.  I understood that God is everywhere because matter obscures that which scientists look for so diligently. The smallest tiniest part of all matter is God, too.  I understood that the brain of a child is capable of learning because the neurons are capable of taking in information as if it were given extra slowly, deliberately, extremely slowly, s-l-o-w-l-y.  I understood that death is harder on the people left behind and that life on the other side is what is really important. This earth life is only a small school.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm much more conscious of the fact that my actions have their rewards and punishments in this world and in the next.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have never before felt so many emotions all at once. It's difficult to explain how happy one feels. There's no way to help communicate it. I can only say that during the experience I felt extremely happy, at peace and protected.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Dreams about future events, but without pinpointing them as to where or when but that did happen. I no longer have them.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my husband and my mother, including when I was having my experience and I repeated to myself that I should tell my husband because it would make him so happy. He has listened to me but it is difficult to transmit something so monumental with words. My husband believes my experience is a divine gift.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   When I was sixteen I was at the point of drowning myself. I remember not knowing how to swim and a friend helped me. As soon as she let go of me I dropped like a rock to the bottom. When I couldn't breathe, I suffered greatly. I gave up hope, was very frightened and understood that I was going to die. I saw my own funeral and suddenly, I don't know how long it took, I no longer felt pain or the necessity to breath. I felt peace. My body began to float and I concentrated on my thoughts. I was happy and at peace when suddenly my friend pulled me by my hair and made me float.  I coughed up water through my nose and mouth. The air that I breathed seemed like I took it in together with blow to the back of my head. I had the pain the rest of the afternoon. I was afraid of telling my parents until quite a few years later when I understood how close I could have come to dying.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I still feel amazed. I think about it all the time. I want to believe it was real which is why I sought out this website to see if other people have experienced something similar and it seems that they have, no?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Thank you for making it possible to learn from and share with others something so wonderful. I can now be at greater peace knowing it wasn't just a dream.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think it would be good to ask if people have had any experience before their NDE that made them sensitive or open to this kind of situation.  For example, in my case, I remember having a dream where the Devil got power over me as if by filling me with a black light. Ever since that day, I woke up to the fact that all my actions were done out of coldness and without being aware of the bad I was doing.  In other words, I was doing something wrong but didn't realize it until I saw a being of light. I mean, a kind of person dressed in white and seemed to have a sun that radiated white light from within. I only remember seeing him standing. He turned around, looked at me and smiled. But in that smile I believe he told me everything was going to be okay and he gave me an incredible feeling of peace. When I woke up I kept on being the same good, conscientious person and I realized that I no longer wanted to do anything bad - if I can put it that way.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carol_m_nde.html