{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carol_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Carol L NDE 4262","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carol L NDE 4262  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carol L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2087 Carol L NDE 4262  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been in a lot of pain after almost four hours of surgery. After being given pain medication, I became unconscious. I was told my blood pressure dropped to 58/38 and I was having difficulty breathing. Medical equipment needed to be rushed to me from another part of the hospital. When I came back to earth, a nurse who was watching me told me I had a very 'close call'. At first, I thought, 'HUH?' Then I remembered who I was 'sort of' and remembered the room and that I had surgery.

When I had left the planet, I was an entity, sitting on the bottom of a thick black line (as if sitting on the floor in a hallway leaning against the wall) which had beautiful bright white light running the length of either side. I did not have a body and had no awareness of being 'Carol' or having a husband and children, a home and a job. I was waiting and was aware of that. I was patient and not bored at all. Not like me. I get antsy and bored, especially without visual stimuli. I was aware of my essence. That I remember as being very much me. I was just kind of hanging out waiting for a decision. I had no worries or cares and I was so FREE, RELAXED, and CONTENT. I was kind of going la, dee da, dee, da - Just as I do when I daydream. I have always been a daydreamer and I am sure I have had out of body experiences also. (Some OBEs were pleasant and some were like escape.) After hovering around in that nice, black hallway surrounded by light for some time I was suddenly back and VERY SURPRISED!!!!!!!!

Before I had my surgery, about couple of weeks before, as I walked into our local bookstore, I 'knew' my doctor who would be at the back of the store. Sure enough, she was, saw me, and smiled. I knew everything would ultimately be fine and that she would do an excellent job, yet I had 'known' there would be a problem with breathing and something cardiovascular.

I was relieved to be back to take care of my daughter who was eleven at the time, yet also unhappy to be back. My husband seemed foreign to me and there is a veil between me and the rest of the world.  This took some getting used to. I almost got divorced. I really feel that Carol has gone and I'm stuck as her replacement. Sometimes I get mad and wish I hadn't come here or back or whatever.

I have had many psychic experiences. I see many things before they happen. I have dreams in which I am other people and that dream appears in the newspaper a day later. I see auras and orbs. My daughter is very psychic. I feel I have a mission. I'm not exactly sure what it is. I do tell many people that we go to the other side. This is all very difficult to explain. And it is difficult to understand why people don't 'get it' or see the things I see. I gravitate to certain people more than to others. It is interesting.

Thank you and God Bless you and yours,

Carol

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/09/05

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'm not sure but I think it was just before coming back to 'Carol's body' as I call it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was soooooo peaceful and absolutely quiet. I loved it!!!!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No emotion.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Did not cross, came back to the body.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I speak more about God and tell people I will make a prayer for them. I did not do that before and would have been very uncomfortable doing so.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I speak more about God and tell people I will make a prayer for them. I did not do that before and would have been very uncomfortable doing so.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm not the same 'Carol' and everyone seems a bit different to me except my children.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My psychic abilities increased.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Recognizing my essence. It is soooo old. So simple and yet so 'me.' This is what I hold on to remember that I am still me. I'm just altered in some way.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband soon after I returned home from the hospital.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was just outside a portal to the other side but the decision was made to send me back.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was worn out and was sent back with some kind of infused knowledge I was given before leaving to help make me stronger and complete my mission with some modifications regarding its direction. I do many things intuitively based on this. I try to help others when I can. The question is 'How far do I stick my neck out.' Some people are so mean or just don't get things I think they should know, Or are they refusing to acknowledge? I'm so frustrated sometimes.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I really got in touch with my soul and know my essence.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       A question concerning the veil between me and others that is now present after this experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carol_l_nde.html