{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carol_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Carol G NDE 22889","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carol G NDE 22889  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carol G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3500 Carol G NDE 22889  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					December 10, 2012, 9:30 am. I went on a work errand.  As I walked toward my car there was a family parked beside my car that was backing up.  I moved back to give the driver room, as I knew I was in his blind spot.  As I approached the end of a parking row, my left foot slipped on ice and my front foot went flying.  When I realized I was falling I dropped my purse and tucked my head forward to position myself for a break fall that I had learned as a child in Judo classes.  I could not keep my head tucked. I tried to control it as it whipped back. Everything went into slow motion. I could hear the hair swishing back within the slow motion. It was so slow that I thought I could count the number of hairs on my head.  Knowing that I couldn't control the fall, I told myself to just relax and go with it.  I knew I was no longer in control and just went with the fall. I opened my eyes. It was like seeing for the first time, everything was very bright on this dark, snowy day. The building I had just exited was in total blackness in my left peripheral vision. I could see traffic moving in front of me, as well as on the off ramp.  From my right, when I looked down, I saw a body falling. I said aloud, ’that's Carol.’ It came out in a whisper of several voices, both female and male. I rushed to help the falling person when I was suddenly back inside the body. I could feel the pain on the top of my head that already existed and I felt the second hit to the back of the head. I said out loud in single voice, ‘Thank you God for not letting it hit in the same place twice.’

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 10, 2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Clinical death.   I had an accident. I fell on my head.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I totally felt like myself. My thoughts and feelings were the same. I saw the body of ‘Carol’ falling.  I knew it was ‘Carol.’ I did not know that it was my ‘spirit’ that dwelt in the life of ‘Carol’ until I returned to the body

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was one hundred percent conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I experienced slow motion when falling before I was out of body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The whispered voices at the time of the fall, and I often hear music.  Due to the concussions, my brain can't handle music which ‘Carol’ loved to listen to.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The blackness in the left peripheral vision.  When out of body I knew there was supposed to be a four story building in that spot. I now believe this earth is Hades.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I heard other voices, both male and female, saying the same thing I did when we saw ‘Carol’ falling.  I've been to see a physic and a physic medium. Both told me I have several guardian angels around me and that it was their voices along with mine.  At the time, I was surprised to hear voices other than my own. I did not see them.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The brightness of the earth hurt the eyes when looking at it out of body.  My eyes still hurt to see almost eleven months later. There has been no change in my eyesight as per the optometrist. I've had my vision tested twice since the fall.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Sight was different because of the brightness.  After the fall I don't taste or smell things well.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt sorry for the person who was falling. ‘Carol’ had suffered enough, so why this?

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Bodies are heavy and I had to readjust to living back in this body. Humans have egos that are selfish and create waste.  Living this life is all about the body, possessions, and food.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I tried to catch ‘Carol’ as she was falling.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was aware of future events before the fall as well.  This did not increase, and life has become more uncertain.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Spiritual, belief in all religions and no religions

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I’ve always been spiritual.  I feel it's a gift to know that ‘we’ do go on.  The body dies, but we don't!

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best is knowing that we go on.  The line I tell people is, ‘The body dies, you don't.’   The worst is that I still remain in the life of Carol.  The one who was there for everybody. For tragic events, celebrating their accomplishments, who cooked many meals for others. I was there for all, and they all abandoned me.  Especially family.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Those that remain close believe what I experienced was ‘real.’ As a published poet from the prior life, most people encourage me to write about it.  I do tell most people I meet, as most are in the medical professions that work with me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I prefer sleeping to being awake.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carol_g_nde.html