{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carmen_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Carmen J NDE 6176","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carmen J NDE 6176  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carmen J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2940 Carmen J NDE 6176  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in an infrared frequency, where everything was sepia tone.

  					I was put in a bath to clean off, and then passed out as I got out of the bath. What I saw was all in sepia orange tone: my body being lifted up by my significant other. I looked like a rag doll. I was naked and a river of reddish brown was flowing out of my mouth down my chest and down my thighs. All fluids were being released from my body. 
  					
I thought it was fascinating. I observed from the ceiling. I was pulled further and further away. I just kept looking at the frantic person holding the rag doll that kept slipping through his hands as it spewed the rivers of brown on the body. I was definitely separate from that body that was more like a garment, a space suit. I was whirling up, up, up. Then, from far away, I heard this desperate yelling noise. I didn't recognize the sound. As I focused on the sound, I was being drawn to the sound until I got close enough to it, to distinguish it. It was my SO who was frantically calling my name, 'Carmen! Carmen! Carmen!' At that moment, I was back in my body, and then just passed in and out of consciousness until the paramedics arrived.

I was taken to the hospital. I don't remember the ride, but I was fine in the morning. The experience was not speeded up like when I was in a car accident. It was much different.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6 14 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction.  I returned to breathing before the paramedics arrived.  Other I returned to breathing before the paramedics arrived.  I took bee pollen in raw juice drink and became dizzy and nauseous before I started to experience severe vomiting.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself lose all bodily fluids, but it looked beautiful, like waterfalls. The colors were all reddish brown and my hair was long and dangling, like a rag doll. My body was limp. I could see someone holding my body. At first, it didn't look like it was me. It was just an interesting spectacle to look at.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was no emotion; I was floating with a calm state of mind.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was watching my body below me, which was midway through the experience and right at the point where I recognized the voice calling me back to earth.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Things were in slow motion it seemed, by my observation. But I felt normal.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have seen out of body people before. And, also in a car accident, I saw everything flash in front of me in slow motion or simultaneously. I had an experience before. But this was really interesting that it was not in Technicolor. There was no Technicolor at all, just sepia tones of oranges, reds and dark browns.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sound was just so peaceful until I heard (from a faraway place like I was in a tunnel where I could not hear well). Then the sound was muddled and I was curious. So I paid attention to the sound as I seemed to move closer to the sound, and then realized it was someone calling out my name.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I didn't see a tunnel, but sound made me think I was getting further and further away and then when I was returning, the sound of someone's voice was getting louder and louder.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Reddish sepia tones - from light reds and oranges to browns and dark browns.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt bliss.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   I am a student at RSE/ Ramtha.  Very spiritual. Very scientific. But not a member to a clubhouse of traditional religions

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   I am very spiritual but not affiliated with any organized religion.  Have minored in world religions during my university days.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I knew from my studies in the past that the body is just our vehicle while we are on Earth.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I had more a fear of the pain getting to death, but not death itself.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   When I recognized the voice, it was the person holding my body, calling out my name. I don't know how much time had passed.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No     Have seen out of body people before...and also in a car accident where i saw everything flash in front of me slow motion or simultaneously. So i had an experience before. But this was really interesting that it was not in technicolor.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Yes...Ramtha had said he was going to send a runner relating to his talk about death. Never thought about it until after i got out of the hospital. Then i laughed.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was definitely separate from that body that was more like a garment...a space suit.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Saw how caring and frightened this person was that i was going to leave him.  I never knew how much he cared. loll!

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     See above.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I saw how caring and frightened this person was that I was going to leave him. I never knew how much he cared, LOL. I saw how emotional he got over this. I saw how I responded when I heard him yelling at me: I think I felt guilty. I was less attached to lovers than before. I love very much, but I am not so clingy with regard to romantic relationships. I don't get too dramatic and emotional about life. I have more appreciation for detachment.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That something that would be horrible to look at on Earth looked quite beautiful. Or rather, no judgment on what was happening (for instance, the vomiting was distasteful to watch when I was out of body).

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    Right away. The person was still scared of it and didn't want to hear that I had a blissful time. He was a wreck.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I knew from my studies in the past, that the body is just our vehicle while we are on Earth.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was out of body.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Real is real. But now I have more of a scientific understanding via Ramtha's science courses [Ramtha is a nonphysical being channeled by J Z Knight] that gives me an even stronger paradigm to support this as real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I noticed the sepia tone was the same as when I was out of body during my allergy reaction years ago.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carmen_j_nde.html