{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carmen_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Carmen B NDE 2574","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carmen B NDE 2574  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Carmen B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						828  Carmen B NDE  2574  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  Commonalities with all three events:

Looking down on body in hospital bed (1 event).

Serenity, soft music, sense of great peace, soft colors not of the physical world (indescribable).

White/pale yellow soft light, sense of floating.

Trees but not like normal trees, no other entities present.

Desire not to return.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 29 August 2006  /  July 1970/  July 1969  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All was more vivid, and a greater sense of reality, desire not to return, intense sense of peace.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Last experience: rolling dunes reddish and pale yellow into the distance. Some dunes displayed peaks. Eye perspective panning over the scene.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   No time perception at all.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Greater clarity, greater degree of peripheral vision, colors more vivid, greater degree of brightness, some degree of transparency (like a vision but untouchable, yet very real).  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heard absolutely nothing other than music and was very soft.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Also saw through the light: empty countryside included trees with light shade no green at all. Also water, intense blue.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     as described above  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first fear with the out of body experience, then emotions changed 180 degrees. Extreme peacefulness and joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Being able to let go of all things of this world. Will never repeat mistakes from the past if given a new lease on life. Will live a good life.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Lack of acceptance of the tenets of organized religion.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Lack of acceptance of the tenets of organized religion.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A sense of evil in the universe that was a tangible thing.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Hold others to a higher standard and tend to not tolerate a sense of lack of goodwill towards me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Not able to describe colors, music.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About a week for one experience only - kept silent about the other two.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   A strong sense of direction in life that awaited me.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     One hundred percent reality.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     When I go back and think of my experience I long for the feelings I experienced and want them in my life here. Also I was free from pain.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       A sense of a lack of understanding why I was constantly sent back.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carmen_b_nde.html