{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carlos_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Carlos V NDE 1060","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carlos V NDE 1060  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carlos V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						520  Carlos V NDE  1060  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

'If the lack of sunshine at night time makes you cry, you won't be able to see the stars. If you sit down on the road, always face what you will walk and give your back to what you already walked' Chinese old saying.


In here, we will handle a portion of that experience during those nine days, when I was not conscious.


STORY:


It happened early in the morning of January 6th 1995, right after waking up for my routine tasks; after having my morning bath and having breakfast, I lost consciousness for nine days, when I awoke from my trip to the after-death.


I have been told that I was hospitalized in the nearest clinic to my house at the time; this is San Blas Clinic, not far from the area of Loma del Este, Valencia, Venezuela. It was a public holiday - Day of the Adoration. I was admitted to emergency clinically dead, with no vital signs. At this time there were no specialists in neurology on duty; however, they brought a neurosurgeon from Caracas, just arrived to Valencia, Dr. A., who proceeded with the craniotomy, due to bad sinuses that infected my brain with pus. They extracted 250 cl, all due to blocking of my nasal cavity since childhood, that I was not aware of.


I was unaware of what had happened to me until the ninth day. When I woke up and two surgeons, one of them was Dr. A., told me: 'Calm down, you've just had brain surgery.' One of my daughters living abroad was contacted, to say goodbye, since my life was at stake. Nine out of ten, in these cases, die. My situation was so bad that even doctors got my family ready for my funeral arrangements. This idea spread easily with some visiting professors/teachers, friends/acquaintances of mine, who were told that it would be difficult for me to survive, like Professor R. and wife, who arrived from Maracay and bid farewell twice, as they corroborated.


However, what was going on with me? What was I experiencing? What happened to me? This is what I can recall: I always had the idea of being in a dream, sleep. I not only remember passing through a dark tunnel, but through a tunnel with lights of a wide range of colors. During the whole way, numerous voices could be heard, telling me: 'None that is on earth belongs to you any longer, everything is temporary. These are not your children - just roles to play - everything is temporary - your success is linked to the way you played your role - it depends on how you behaved.' And all of a sudden, a screen-like thing was opened and they told me: 'This is all you have done until now.' I remember scenes of my past life since I was two; they were telling me: 'You failed this, you were wrong in this, here you can see mistakes made, here they are the good deeds...'


It was incredible, since it reminded me of bad moments of my life to me, of grieving, moments of impureness - and all due to the simple fact that I was not paying attention to what I was supposed to do, due to being unable to handle my weakness, emotions. I felt bad when I realized all the suffering I had caused upon others and myself, I learnt how to interpret the karmic law (cause/effect) and its consequences.


It was pointed out repeatedly to me that everything in this physical/earthy plane is temporary and that we must free ourselves from any dependence, conditioning or attachment whatsoever, since they prevent us from growing and developing ourselves and they generate grief. I was reminded about the importance of not becoming too attached to illusory shapes/features, to roles to be played. I insisted on the importance of doing it well without generating dependence or demands. It was highlighted to me that the existence in this plane has to be accordingly, that one must take advantage of opportunities given without causing harm to anybody. On the contrary, letting love to manifest itself, respecting everybody's feelings, not lying to anybody, learning how to be authentic, not letting yourself be trapped by the illusory or vane. I was told, 'You will carry nothing over, just what you did for your own development. All that is mundane remains there, do not get attached to it - make use of it, without causing any harm, without creating dependency for yourself.'


I clearly remember how I arrived to a place with a beautiful light, shining in splendor, where many people who were entering a reception hall gathered; a vast hall well decorated. I did not know any of them. I was hearing many voices, proper music of the spheres, a beautiful music not well known, very harmonious, and vibrating. Many beings dressed in white tunics, some others wearing a yellow one.


Somebody approached initially to me and said: 'Your stay in here will be short. Somebody has been waiting for you and wants to say goodbye. This is your last chance. He'll come out soon. You just have to go into that room, which he will enter.' Right then I heard how somebody was calling and how they said: 'There is one who wants to greet you and say goodbye. This is the last time you'll see him. This is your grandfather Abraham.'


The door opened and my grandfather came up, shining. He gave me a hug and talked to me. I remember him saying, 'I came to bid farewell. You won't see me again. There are some other tasks waiting for me. Take care and follow your path.' He told me some other things, but I do not remember them properly. He gave me another hug. I saw how the door opened and how he left, leaving me very sad.


However, somebody took my hand and told me that I had to go back, that there were too many things to do for me. As in my way here, my way back was through shining color lights, in particular green, yellow and blue - as if I was having a shower of lights - and they gave me great peace. I did not understand why, but when I was back, somebody said that prayers and meditation of groups praying for you, accordingly to their guide cause vibrations of colors emanated from those lights.


I admit that I never got scared, on the contrary, this trip and proximity to death caused big changes in me; I experienced a transformation, more exalted/sublime than being in this dimension - I knew how to accomplish my mission, how to be more alert in my relationships, with manners, and how to work harder on de-attachment and dependence. All this on next script.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    6 de Enero, 1985

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness  Sinusitis aguda, craneotomia   Operación al cerebro Craneotomía ( Coma 9 días)In coma during a period of nine days.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Quiet, as if I was dreaming, unaware of coma.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Already explained.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Voice, music, lights.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Already explained in experience.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Already explained.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Color lights and one white light.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Already explained.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Already explained.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     There was a boundary/limit, but I did not cross it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Behavior changes, belief changes.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the learning, meeting my grandfather. The worst part was coming back to this plane of existence.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    With those who showed interest.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   More routine events, not related to drugs or alcohol.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      That this plane of non-lasting shapes is a good school for our evolution provided we are consequent with our actions and we take good advantage of our stay in it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I think that personal beliefs, religions and relevance given to personal development must be highlighted.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carlos_v_nde.html