{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carlos_ea_nde.html","mytitle":"Carlos EA NDE 2761","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carlos EA NDE 2761  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carlos EA NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1025  Carlos EA NDE  2761  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  It happened at the beach. I didn't know how to swim. The water came up to my feet when I lost my footing, slipped, and fell back, because the beach where I went is like a wave. When I lost my footing, I sank. I later tried to get out but the waves kept pushing me down. I felt tired and sleepy but I could see under the water. I don't know at what moment I started going toward a white light. I felt peace and the tranquility was beautiful. As I got closer and closer, I was afraid. I knew I was dying and I heard a voice that told me to go back. I then returned rapidly and felt a blow to my chest and at that moment, I started feeling pain. I felt that I was drowning once again and I later saw some legs by my side that I grabbed onto to get out of the water. Those legs took me out but according to my friends I got out by myself, it was incredible that nobody got me out.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1988  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       ahogamiento  Other ahogamiento  Drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Greater.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I could still see the bottom of the sea.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a tunnel of light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     no  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and tranquility.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I have no fear of death.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        Things that can happen, I know do happen.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel more at peace about death.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     People who hurt me or do something bad to me have it happen to them.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Nobody saw the person who took me out of the water but I know somebody did it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They believe it is of God.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was fearful.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm still afraid because I don't know how to explain it because it happened to me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carlos_ea_nde.html