{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carlos_a_fde.html","mytitle":"Carlos A FDE 4602","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carlos A FDE 4602  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carlos A FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			2324 Carlos A FDE 4602  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					One night I was driving on a two way single lane road in Florida after being tired from studying all night the night before for a graduate school exam. It was around 8:30 pm and dark in December of 2006 and at the time I had been feeling really ill with mono like symptoms for a time of about two months. As I was driving to get home up a small slope, I started feeling my heart beat really hard and fast along with the feeling of being very confused, dizzy, and lightheaded.

At the moment I panicked because I was on the road driving for one and two most importantly I felt like I was going die from my heart beating rapidly and hard. Instantly I thought that this was it and it was my time to die at the age of twenty-five. I was concerned for the safety of others on the road and unfortunately there was nowhere to pullover and stop the vehicle and call for help. All of a sudden a second later it was as if the lights were out in my eyes and I found myself in a pitch-black environment. I still feel the vehicle moving forward, in third gear still, and moving straight. Confusing I know!

In the pitch-blackness setting, I found myself begging a non-present God to let me stay and remember telling him I was too young to die. Immediately after the thought of my daughter arose in my thoughts and I felt sadness for her as I thought my time was ending. Subsequently I told God I had to take care of her since I was her father and provider. Immediately I saw images of my life as if someone did a slideshow of my life entirely. When my daughter's images showed up, I felt love and sadness. I continued begging God.  All of a sudden, I left the pitch-black place and it was as if I woke up again. The strange thing about when I woke up again is that I was still on the road driving. I just felt dizzy, confused, and lightheaded but the rapid heartbeat was gone. I stopped and called my friends for help and they picked me up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Dec 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    'Fast beating heart rate, dizziness, lightheadedness, confusion.'  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I had been feeling really sick for about two months now. I had Mono-like symptoms. Doctors couldn't find anything wrong. After this NDE a few weeks later, a doctor found I had Hashimoto's Thyroiditis. My feeling of dizziness, lightheadedness, confusion, mono symptoms, and the rapid heart rate was a result of my thyroid going out on me from so many years of not being not treated.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was in pitch darkness and my life review was occurring.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in pitch darkness and my life review was occurring.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I remember this occurring while I was driving my vehicle and when my NDE was over I still was driving my vehicle. Ironically, while I was experiencing my NDE I still felt my car moving and time continuing forward even though time and space had stopped for me. When I came back my car had drove forward a few hundred feet.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Anxiety, fear, sadness, regret, forgiveness, love for my daughter.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I just saw my life in sequence of every Kodak moment that was saved in my life whether it was me playing sports, growing up, seeing my daughter born, and so on. No, I did not learn anything that I did not previously know. The post NDE has taught me that I have a second chance in life and to not take life for granted. An aunt once told me once when I was in despair that life is a gift every day. I always thought I was invincible like most young men.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Somewhat, like I felt the future of my daughter depended on me strongly. I felt pretty aware of this during my life review.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Raised Catholic but attended services seldomly.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Still a catholic but now more spiritual. I have a better relationship with God, an open relationship. I feel religion, culture, and other demographics are irrelevant to God. Also God does not judge but has put our souls on this planet to learn and mature us spiritually whether we recognize it or not.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Still Catholic as I use this as an apparatus to live a good and loving life.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Still a catholic but now more spiritual. I have a better relationship with God, an open relationship. I feel religion, culture, and other demographics are irrelevant to God. Also God does not judge but has put our souls on this planet to learn and mature us spiritually whether we recognize it or not.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Felt my purpose was to love and be there for my daughter.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Today I am more patient, loving, friendlier, generous, and grateful.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have more premonition abilities and have come to understand them as a gift even though they come and go.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The life review was significant because I felt that someone is always watching and is concerned about our welfare. That someone I believe to be God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took like three years to share this with a few close family and friends. Some felt a strong belief others didn't entertain it too much.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was flabbergasted by the whole ordeal and know it was so real but surreal at the same time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what happened and what I experienced was strange but life in reality. Life is beautiful and hard at times. We are going to struggle, commit errors, enjoy it, abuse it, and so on but life goes on afterwards.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carlos_a_fde.html