{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carlene_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Carlene W NDE 773","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carlene W NDE 773  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carlene W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						290  Carlene W NDE  773  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

In 1990, I was found in a coma and I died for a bit.  During this time, I saw a black hole with a circle of light that I was traveling through.  A sense of peacefulness, which is indescribable, came over me.  I continued to go through the tunnel/circle of light.  I wanted to stay because the feeling, the peacefulness, was so complete.  Somehow, I knew it was heaven; I looked to see if my grandmother and my daughter Becky was there.  They were - and again I felt a peace knowing that they were all right.  I also saw another friend, who supposedly committed suicide.  I could hear my family and my other daughters talking to me.  I needed to come back and help them.  I wanted to hold on to that peace that I felt; however, my family needed me.  I soon came out of the coma.


Later I found out, the doctors tried everything but it wasn't till my daughters were allowed in my room that I came out of the coma.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    12/3/90

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness  mosquito...encephalitis of the brain  Clinical death I don't think I was declared dead, they worked to get my system stabilized.  However, there is a short time they thought they lost me.Encephalitis, did die for a while.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Pretty high.  Time was different, it seemed like a long time but it wasn't.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time seemed to go slower than normal.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Not that I can recall - but I saw my parents, children crying, and around me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Tunnel of light with some darkness in the middle.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     An angel I think.  Asked about my daughter, grandmother and saw them.  Then I saw a friend.  They were okay, didn't have to worry about them.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Bright, golden light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Indescribable.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I am not afraid of dying; I know my loved ones are okay.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Some things, I never take my daughters that I have for granted.  Quit mourning my oldest daughter, and do my best for my daughters, that survived.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Peaceful, but confused - wanted to stay and experience the peacefulness yet I wanted to be with my boyfriend and family.  They needed me to stay, how could I ask my mother to go through that pain of loss; I am the only daughter.  I also remembered how I felt when I had to bury my daughter, there is no loss like that and it is hard to bounce back from.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I did believe in God, but now I know there is a heaven.  When someone dies, I know they can see me and be with me for they are only in a different dimension.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best is that I no longer mourned for my daughter, I knew she was in heaven with my grandmother. I wanted to live and to do that I had to give up that sense of peace.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some people close to me.  I hope I influenced them

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Wish I could get hypnotized to bring back more of what I felt when this happened.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      This is a rather thorough questionnaire - impressed.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carlene_w_nde.html