{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carl_h_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Carl H Probable NDE 4975","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carl H Probable NDE 4975  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carl H Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2589 Carl H Probable NDE 4975  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					See description below.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Afterwards I learned that it took some doing to bring me back to life. They performed heart massage, etc. and I learned I was 'lost' to death again at various times. :)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was a feeling of 'timelessness', there was no time, but there was movement from me towards that LIGHT. And on the way over there, there was movement and motion.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Black and bright light are the only 'colors' I can remember.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was silence but also a humming sound, indefinable, which suggested movement, a congestion.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When I popped back I felt I went through a tunnel in order to take possession of my body again, an experience which still impresses me. I opened my eyes almost immediately and I came to life with a smile on my face (so a nurse told me). I also immediately received a shock: they asked me who I was, my date of birth, etc.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I encountered others, 'people' I had known and forgotten constellations of indefinable contents.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I flashed towards a very bright light in the distance and on the way over there I encountered and experienced all sorts of things.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       WONDERFUL and free of pain and relieved.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     In a flash your life is being 'shown' and 'relived' from an unexpected angle. Things that were unimportant here are very important there.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Quaker

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Quaker

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The purpose was to buzz to that light.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My partner called me angry and unmanageable, truly a changed behavior indeed. And I was very very angry to be back!!! Now I have to go through it all over again I thought, and still think.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words are very inadequate to describe this experience, but I'll do my best.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I can see where people come from and sometimes their direct future. I also feel intuitively more and better (or maybe now I allow myself to?) and I know the outcome. Sometimes I think I should get more into it but I don't know how yet. And there is always the doubt: 'must I'? - all that knowledge.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        To be one with everything the experience offered and the absence of good and evil.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Like I said at the start of this questionnaire, four years after my experience I allowed people to interview me, that was in 2001. My experience has been in writing for a while now! Without reactions though. I was very reluctant to share my experience, only my partner and friends knew about it. And they shared my astonishment and admiration for this experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I stick to what I have said that I experienced a dream in a dream. As real as a dream can be but everything that happened can also be called a dream (real as well); I saw myself, I experienced myself in that dream, a wonderful journey in bliss and swathed in love searching for me. My true home, a part of myself that was left behind. I now also know that it is a very special dream which never leaves you and sparkles on and on - and it is not a nightmare.  :)

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I have learned in the meantime that more people have had a similar experience. And the experience in itself is and was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's a very special event for everyone experiencing it. An experience of love that cannot be described in words.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carl_h_probable_nde.html