{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1carl_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Carl G NDE 3824","mylang":"de"}
          	        Carl G NDE 3824  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Carl G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1797 Carl G NDE 3824  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Let's start at the beginning. First, I was a high school dropout tenth then GED college level (note: my spelling is bad please correct if published).

Ten years later, I jumped into college taking 18 semester units and a 3.75 GPA. I was given a real wake up book to read, it about threw me across the room too, and woke up the sleeper. Two weeks later, I was confronted with the devil trying to turn me (in a public toilet).

Next, I'm driving through the Santa Cruz mountains' winding and twisting roads, to San Jose, California. (I'm really tired.) Then down a country road, late at night to my girl's house. I nod off to sleep; I wake up, thinking I'm hitting the picket fence, down the road another block.

I bashed my head on the steering wheel, sliced the lower left side of my chin open three inches, to the bone and two places on my right cheek, to the bone needed stitches, too. Bashed my knees into the dash, trashed the seat I was sitting in, hard to walk for weeks.

I was depressed for about three months after. When you see what is behind the Green door, who wants to come back. You cannot just take your own life it's all about learning, to love all and our God.

The engine in the car was pushed back about six inches; I could not open the driver door, from where the car hit the telephone poles. The nurse and her husband, standing off to the side saying, 'What are we going to do with the dead man, in our yard?' I come back and he is running to me saying, 'You cannot get out the driver door. We have to talk, you were dead.' Blood all on my face and running down on to my clothing. The hospital wanted to keep me overnight and I would not tell them any more than I had to, three days later I'm out of the hospital and back in class.

People sometimes ask me how long was I there with Christ. All I can really say is, 'By your time or by God's time? I was there a long time, with Christ.'

I also hit an eight inch by eight-inch post throwing it though the people's front picture window. The car was flying at about sixty-five to seventy mph flying over the embankment landing on the first telephone pole, on the right side of the driveway and rebounded to the next telephone pole, on the other side of the driveway, rebounding again (I am watching all of this, I'm out of my body). The car is in the air clipping off a large tree branch ten inches around. Then the car takes a left turn and the front bumper sunk into the lawn twelve inches from the house (brick wall).

It was a beautiful clear night; you could see all the stars bright and clear. The first telephone pole was the moment I was thrown out of my body. Watching the car turning and twisting I was saying, 'Is it time, is it time.' A voice came from somewhere, saying; 'NO it is not time. No it is not time.' At this same moment, I was shot through a tunnel of light.

I was standing before Christ, the light behind Him, was so bright, you could not look at with human eyes. He told me, 'No you must return for this reason, you will have a son born unto you.' (Three years later to the very day my son Julian was born.) Christ showed me my whole life, the good, the bad, and all the rest. Then Christ said, 'That is alright, life is a learning experience.' I was there for some time and Christ showed me much during that time. Some I was able to bring back with me. Christ gave me a message to tell all:

Christ said, 'Tell them they must learn to love all that is around you. They must learn to love our God OR return to this world and live life all over again. OR they will lay down next to sleeping waters and drink from thereof.'

The best part is, the love of God, you have more than one chance to learn to love Him. And for me I don't have to come back to this world, again. Not because I have saved five people's lives from death over the years. Only but for the love of God, I do not have to come back here again.

When I was about six or seven years old, I had three best friends, I was the leader. We were always together. You see one, the others were right there too.

One day I had to go to the doctors. My friends Mike, Tim and Jerry, called to me, come play; no, I had to go home.

The next day I sat in a swing on the playground alone. I called to the teacher and asked where my friends are? She stooped down and told me, 'They dug into a pile of sand, it fell in on them, and they all died.' Yes, why was I not there, too? Or was there another real reason I lived and they all died that day?

Over the years, I have become a known artist, of Christian and Surrealism - Southeast Asia, California, Florida, Michigan, and Russia. Thirty years an auto technician and the doctors tell me my time is really short, sixty-five years old and terminal, tick tock. Death is the last thing I fear. I have had much time to think, I will opt to come back ONLY to help others, to see the light of giving to others.

All of these events have changed my life very much. When the sleep first woke up, I could have gone Right or Left. When you get a wakeup call like this everything changes to the right direction of life.

My wife being a medical doctor, at first she did not want to believe. Now this is a different story.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  open 2020

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident  fell asleep at the wheel and went over an embankment on to 2 telephone poles clipped a tree and stopped 12 inches from a brick wall.  When I dropped on to the first telephone pole, I was out of my body. Car was totaled. Embedded to the front bumper  all t  Other auto wreck in peoples yard.  Nurse and husband. Stating  what will we do with the dead man in our yard  After yes, I am still ready to go Home away from this crazy world BUT I agreed to deliver the message to all.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Like I said I nodded out on the steering wheel and it did not take long to snap out of that sleep trashing in to everything. Look when you're dead you are very alert out of your body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     And No, the time there was not earthly time, this was time without end. Nobody, that is as much altered as you want to get, kneeling white space and all your thoughts are directed to Christ. Come to one question for you; 'Your time or God's time?'

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have been an Artist from age six, what is not to see? Seeing Christ now that was a really big treat. I was watching that car twisting all around and I looked up at the stars, at that moment I was shot through a tunnel of light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    None.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     You meant shot through a tunnel light and was it ever fast, then standing before Christ with open arms to me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was so bright it cannot be looked at with human eyes the greater light coming from behind Christ. I saw the light of God.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     how much more  would you want to see other than Christ dressed in cobalt blue and white, the scars in His hands his open arms to me  How much more  beauty  could any one really ask for???

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very clear, everything, I was going home out of here. I was taken home to be given and deliver a message to all that would hear, I'm one with a message. This changes all things. So when you show up I will be there too and you will not be able to say you did not hear the messenger.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was told about my son, even today, I see things before they happen. What is coming is NO Joke. I knew about this event of the Credit five years ago. I took on another family so they would survive, for what is coming. I left the States a year ago. I bought a large garden, in a small village, near a small city. I gave you the Message that was given to me by Christ.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My son was the biggest event for me. There are events I see all the time and every one happens, some take longer. Such as this credit crunch, I saw it five years ago. At first when I use to pick up the phone I knew who was calling and it shook me. Now I tell my wife, at first she was unsure, and now when I say this is coming she hops right to it. If I feel something for a person I meet and have touched, I can tell them an event that is going to take place in their life. A gift from Christ.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   When Your in college and some wakes up the sleeper and a few weeks before you get trashed out the Devil comes to you and tries  to turn you around. there is more to this than meets the eye. Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray every day, I thank God for every bite I receive. Every day is one more day I have been given. I have a short clock the doctors tell me. I have a wonderful wife and doctor 24/7. The church does not matter; it's what is in your heart. Ask right and you will receive.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Christian after a real wake up call. Christ tells you give a message; ''Learn to love all around you, learn to love God or come back to this world again until you learn this love.'''

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I pray every day, I thank God for every bite I receive. Every day is one more day I have been given. I have a short clock the doctors tell me. I have a wonderful wife and doctor 24/7. The church does not matter; it's what is in your heart. Ask right and you will receive.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   When Christ spoke all was known, to me. I was given many gifts to bring back with me. And you got yours already, Merry Christmas.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes One's oneness with myself knowledge of what is coming as the days pass being able to help others and do my best to wake others up. Showing them there is life after death.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The real problem is waking up the brain dead - there is life after death. Edgar Cayce wrote about this years ago. I could not talk about this for years, people kept telling me I belonged in the NUT HOUSE, in a white suit. Now I tell everyone I meet.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As above, it is a gift I never had this before or a message to give to the whole world.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is life after death, you hear it from some old boy preaching up there but in the back of your mind you're still not really sure or what to make of it. I'm here to tell you everything that old boy told you there is TRUE. Most of it is BUT staying in heaven is how much you give of yourself in this world, to others AND I'm not talking about MONEY. I am sure delighted I do not have to come back here,

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    At first all told me I should be put in a nut house. I told most of my family. When my son was born, along with other events that took place their ears opened up. Others, lacking faith, is like talking to a rock. I told many about the Credit crunch long before it took place. Oh, many experts say they had the inside track. So tell me why is the whole world affected, if they had the inside track. I am eating high-grade steak on Social Security income every day and buying gardens with four building eleven fruit trees with it. No one wants to hear they do not want to believe.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   None, zero.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     For once in my life I had real direction. Events coming, the future to be told to others. A gift to the world from Christ.  I was depressed 'WHY' after you see what is behind the green door. Who in their right mind wants to come back here to this world? I was given a job by Christ and I do my best I even have your ear now. Smile.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     How do I view it now. WoW. It just happened a moment ago. The event never stops I can see every moment of it perfect and clear as any new spring day time does not change anything. Life is only a moment in time and much to learn.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I found myself in Southeast Asia speaking so much of the love of God people called me preacher.  When I walked into my dying brother's room the first word out of his mouth was how you doing Preacher. I had not seen him in fifteen years or more. I have travels very much. I'm in Russia and even that are coming being in a small village is a good place to be. Big cities are not a good place to be.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Might add were you given a message to bring back, from your experience and might add a spell-check for old boys like me. I have a vast vocabulary; it's said a form of dyslexia.  Thank you and have a wonderful day and blessing to you and yours.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1carl_g_nde.html