{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1caren_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Caren J NDE 8270","mylang":"de"}
          	        Caren J NDE 8270  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Caren J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4327 Caren J NDE 8270  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the hospital for a cardiac catheterization procedure to determine if I have pulmonary hypertension.  This was done under local anesthesia and there were no complications.  I was to stay in the hospital for 2-3 hours to make sure there were no complications and then I would be released  to go home.  Everything went fine. I had a meal and about 3 hours later the nurse came in to say I was being discharged and I could get dressed and go home.  Before getting dressed I told the nurse I needed to use the restroom.  The nurse then took me around the corner. It was a short walk to the restroom and she stood outside while I went in.  While in the restroom, I started getting lightheaded and I felt like I was going to pass out.  I yelled for the nurse and told her what was going on, so she came in and started helping me back to my room.  The last thing I remember was almost making it to my bed. My mother, who was waiting outside my room, told me that I passed out. She said that several nurses came over and hooked me up to a machine which gave my vital signs.  My mother had to wait outside the room and all she could do was listen.  She heard the nurses say my blood pressure was dropping and that they were losing me.  They called a 'code blue' and brought in a crash cart.  Apparently I had no vital signs for approximately 30 seconds, a very short time before I came back.  

  				  All I can recall is everything went black and then I saw a bright light.  In the bright light, I saw Jesus sitting in a green lawn chair. He just looked at me and smiled.  He looked just as I thought he would with the white robe and glowing light all around him.  He didn't say anything to me; he just smiled and then I woke up.  

  				  After the nurses left the room I told my mother that I saw Jesus.  She asked me how I knew it was Jesus.  I said, 'I just knew.'  I told her that he was sitting in a green lawn chair. She replied, 'If he was sitting, how did you know the lawn chair was green?'  I said again, 'I just knew.'  I told her it was the kind of chair that grandpa had when he went fishing.  After several days of thinking about this, I believe he was fishing with my grandpa, who has passed on, even though I didn't actually see my grandpa.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/16/14

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything was brighter. I didn't have to say anything, I just 'felt' things.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw Jesus.  It was a comforting feeling and it seemed that my senses were more aware of every detail.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Before passing out everything was blurry and then darkness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Before passing out, everything sounded far away then silence.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes, a bright white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     All I could see and feel is the warm bright white light all around.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Warm, calm, peace, joy, love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     It was confirmation that we do live after death and that there is a Jesus.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Validation in my beliefs.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I saw Jesus.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I saw Jesus and he smiled at me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.          I had an awareness suggesting that my grandpa was still able to go fishing after death,  that Jesus goes fishing with him, and that he is happy.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life.     It gave me a peace and calmness that everything was going to be alright.  It also gave me validation that Jesus does exist.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was hard to explain how I just knew that it was Jesus and what color chair he was sitting in.  I just knew what it was without any words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just knowing that my grandpa was happy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience with my mother right after I woke up.  She thought I was talking crazy at first but then I think she believed what I saw.  Friends just kind of laughed at the story.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have read about people having NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I know what I saw and felt was real and that it was not a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I have never doubted what happened or what I saw and felt were not real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My experience was very short but I instinctively knew what it was and that it was real.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1caren_j_nde.html