{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cara_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Cara S NDE 5139","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cara S NDE 5139  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cara S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2675 Cara S NDE 5139  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I felt the presence of my dead father in the theatre room when I realized that the anesthetic was not working on me. He was in the corner, trying to comfort me in the unbelievable pain that I was in from the surgery that I was going through, since I was feeling everything that the surgeon was doing to me.

He was telling me that it would be over very soon. When the surgeon had finished, and they were taking the tubes out of me and asking me my name, the only thing I said with my last breath was 'The anesthetic did not work, I felt everything.' I stopped breathing. My father came up closer to me holding my hand. I felt slight movement in my legs, and started kicking to signal something was wrong to the surgeon. I stopped breathing. It felt like several minutes had passed when the surgeon realized something was wrong. I was too weak to kick and stopped. They were losing me. The surgeon checked to see my heart beat, very weak, and realized that I had stopped breathing. I heard a nurse say they were losing me. 

I then felt my father taking me by the hand and my spirit rising from my body as I could see nurses and surgeon working on my body. I saw a tunnel and bright lights, and felt the presence of other dead people going towards the light through the tunnel. Then as I was getting nearer to the light I was stopped, and my father asked if I wanted to continue, but there would be no return to earth. I said no, I had to get back to my sons. Then I can't explain at what speed it was I went back into my body, like being electrocuted, and took a breath. I opened my eyes and saw the surgeon collapse next to me crying.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I needed to come back for my children as I am divorced.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Spiritually all the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Spiritually all the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Over there, there is no such thing as time, space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I can now sense more things paranormal. I know when someone is seriously ill. I can date approximately when someone is going to die. I can communicate with dogs and cats using telepathy. I can smell this aroma, used in churches, and know there is a spirit near me (so does my dog as she barks at it). I know when something bad is going to happen, like my son having a car crash.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I am getting older now, sometimes I hear clearer on some days and not on others.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A tunnel going up into space with a bright light at the end of it and feeling the presence of other dead people going towards the light with their dead relatives.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     All around you, dead people but not in the human form, mist but not mist. I only knew my father but there was no fear, just a understanding all between us all.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright, pleasant.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I do now in my dreams. I can talk to dead relatives. I have seen beautiful locations and know it is heaven.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was relieved not to be in any pain, felt absolutely wonderful, at peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I now have paranormal senses. After I had my experience, I went to work at a Vet Clinic, and I used my new abilities to communicate with dogs and cats and help them. I see life differently now. I'm more aware.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Know when bad things are going to happen. Just sense them. Intuition?

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Become stronger, Christian.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Become stronger, Christian.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I can now sense more things. Paranormal. I know when someone is seriously ill. I can date approximately when someone is going to die. I can communicate with dogs and cats using telepathy. I can smell this aroma, used in churches, and know there is a spirit near me (so does my dog as she barks at it). I know when something bad is going to happen, like my son having a car crash. Lots more.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes People are frightened of me when they realize I have abilities.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words to express what you see and feel.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had paranormal gifts starting as a child, but nothing compared to now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I appreciate life more since my experiences.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family know, as I stated the date and time of death of my father who was 3,000 km away, the vets I worked with even asked if I could speak to the animals. They were shocked. By the way this is the second time I have had NDE.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   This is the second time I have had NDE. The first happened 1993. There my dead grandfather came for me as my father was still alive.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Glad to be alive, look at nature in a different way.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's something you will never forget.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   It has happened twice.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cara_s_nde.html