{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cara_nde.html","mytitle":"Cara NDE3637","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cara NDE3637  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cara NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1645 Cara NDE 3637  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After a craniotomy, my body clinically hovered between life and death for two days, and my spirit left it at that time. I looked down at my body, and although it wasn't a pretty sight I was not concerned. I perceived it to be a vehicle, which carried me through the Earth school. I was in a place of love, kindness, compassion, contentment, acceptance and joy - a place of 'knowing'. I perceived myself and other beings as masses of energy, all connected and yet separate. There were no body forms or communication, as I know it in human form. There was simply a sense of all knowing. Each and every spirit being was supportive of each other, and I 'knew' them, although they didn't have the same forms as when I knew them on the Earth school. There were no limitations such as space or time in the spirit world. I was aware of the big picture regarding the past, present and future. I was aware that the Earth school experience was one part of my evolution. There was a review of my life in this body, and also my past lives. I was the judge as to the benefit and value of each experience. They all seemed very interconnected, and yet separate. There was a focus to each life experience, and all the experiences contributed to an end result. I didn't want to come back to the Earth school, and after some deliberation with the other beings of energy, including the God being, or large mass of energy, we decided that coming back would serve the greater good. I had a choice, and yet the choice seemed to be made in unity with the other beings. I also knew that if I didn't come back at this time, in this body, I would return to the Earth school in another body, to finish what I was here to do. Before the experience, I didn't believe or disbelieve in reincarnation. Now I am sure that I have had many reincarnations. When I came back into my body, I was content. It felt like my spirit was cuddling back into a warm comfortable place. At that time, my body clinically stabilized. First, I was not expected to live. When I did live my family and I were told that I would never function 'normally' again.

I don't function 'normally' according to conventional wisdom! I have lived life as an observant adventurer, and although I have always been on a path of discovery, the out of body experience intensified and reinforced all of my beliefs prior to the experience. It opened up more channels in the heart and mind, as with a radio. If we leave it on the same channel all the time, we will probably hear the same type of music, and the same slant on newscasts all the time. If we change the channel occasionally, we may hear something different. 

Although I shared my NDE with hundreds of people in classes at a university, this is the first time I've connected with the NDERF web site.  I just learned something interesting - Dr. Melvin Morse states the there is a 'God Spot' in the right temporal lobe, which 'acts as a transmitter and receiver of the universal mind...we can actually learn to stimulate this part of our brains in a number of ways besides near death or active dying'. My injury was to the right temporal lobe. Perhaps it was 'stimulated' rather than damaged - interesting!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Feb. 11, 1990'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had a fractured skull and severed artery, causing bleeding on the brain. I had also been diagnosed with cancer.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Even when I returned to the body and the human form was still unconscious, I was at a higher level of consciousness than in a 'normal' human conscious state.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was out of the body in the spirit world.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was 'altered' only in the sense that there were no boundaries or limitations of time or space. It is difficult to describe.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the OBE in the spirit world there were no limitations, judgments or comparisons of any kind. Everything was definitely different, expanded and not 'normal' according to conventional human wisdom. However, it was so much more 'normal' on another plane. I feel more 'at home' there than I do here. I have often felt like I'm in a foreign land on this school.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    As I stated previously, everything was more expanded, clearer. I didn't have 'hearing' or 'vision' as I know it here. There was a sense of all knowing without limitations. The way we (humans) 'normally' see and hear on this earth school is limiting.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were many beings. We communicated by ESP. I use that term because it's the closest I can come to the type of communication I experienced. To say 'where they were' would be limiting. They were everywhere and nowhere. I recognized the beings, and they were all supportive of my journey in both the spirit world and Earth school. I definitely did not 'see' any religious figures - I didn't want to! The spirit beings were definitely not 'deceased'. They were very much alive and in another form. The spirit who was my mother in this lifetime, who passed over from human form about a year before my NDE, was present. She has been a spirit guide for me in many incarnations, and has accompanied me in physical form as well.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a light, but not as we know it in human form. Again, our perception of light is limited to what we know on this Earth school.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Definetly another dimension, for which there is no description in human language...at least English:>)

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Everything and nothing. I didn't 'feel' the same way I 'feel' as a human. Our feelings as humans are sometimes limited to what we know on this plane. There were expanded 'feelings' that I cannot even begin to describe. I felt peace, pleasantness, relief, calm, joy, happiness and much, much more.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I experienced a review of all past lives. I became more content and accepting of this life experience. I have dabbled in many different activities throughout this lifetime, including several different careers, several different sport activities on competitive levels, extensive travel to remote areas, performing arts, etc. Sometimes, I felt like I wasn't focused enough to stick with one interest. With the review of my life experiences, I learned that all the activities were/are all interconnected, and served a valuable learning opportunity. Reviewing my past lives was an incredible, educational, experience, which I had the choice to view or not. I was very much in control of everything that happened in the NDE. I believe the feeling of control came from my willingness to be open to the process.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     The awareness was/is very accurate. I did not retain all the information I experienced in the OBE. The human body/mind cannot contain the energy level needed to experience what we experience in the spirit state of being. The spirit state is at a higher energy level. It is as with electricity. A receptor for 110 volts will not accept 220 volts. We can, however, transcend human limitations by raising our energy level. As with electricity, we can get an adapter!!! My interpretation of this concept is to knowingly allow a higher energy to flow through us. Again, as with electricity, if a human is shocked by electricity that is not allowed to flow through the body will probably be injured or die. However, humans can get shocked with electricity and if it can flow through the body, they may not be injured. Years ago, while working in a dentist's office taking x-rays, I was shocked with 220 volts of electricity. However, I had one hand on the head of the machine and one hand on the body of the machine, so the energy flowed through and, although my arms felt different, there were no ill effects.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I abandoned the Catholic religion many years before the NDE. As a child, I questioned many of the concepts that the Catholic Church teaches. However, as a good Irish Catholic girl, I continued to go to church as directed by my parents. When I moved out of the house, I didn't go to church on Sunday, and spent the day waiting for the bolt of lightning that was going to strike me dead! Well, I made it through that Sunday, and every Sunday since! After the NDE, I explored several different religions. Because of the NDE, I was trying to find out where I 'belonged' on this Earth school. I do not practice any religious dogma on a regular basis. When visiting other countries I love participating in religious ceremonies and I sing in the local United Church choir when invited, etc. I am content with the realization that I am part of everything - and nothing!

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I abandoned the Catholic religion many years before the NDE. As a child, I questioned many of the concepts that the Catholic Church teaches. However, as a good Irish Catholic girl, I continued to go to church as directed by my parents. When I moved out of the house, I didn't go to church on Sunday, and spent the day waiting for the bolt of lightning that was going to strike me dead! Well, I made it through that Sunday, and every Sunday since! After the NDE, I explored several different religions. Because of the NDE, I was trying to find out where I 'belonged' on this Earth school. I do not practice any religious dogma on a regular basis. When visiting other countries I love participating in religious ceremonies and I sing in the local United Church choir when invited, etc. I am content with the realization that I am part of everything - and nothing!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a sense of all knowing - a knowledge of the past, present and future, 'the big picture' - universal order and purpose. I know that everything is very well choreographed. Nothing is by chance. There are no coincidences. Although everything is well planned, we have a choice as to how we use the information. Everyone whose path we cross, for example, crosses our path for a reason. We have the choice to disregard the individual and the experience, and we have the choice to be open to the possibilities offered with the interaction. We have the choice to live every moment being aware and totally in the moment, or we can choose not to be totally in the moment, which many folks do in our society. 

  When I regained consciousness, after the injury and NDE, I received hundreds of cards, letter, notes, etc. Many of them stated 'you probably don't remember me, but five years ago, you said something to me and it changed my life', or '10 years ago you did this for me and it changed my life'. I wasn't doing anything special for these folks. I was simply being kind and being in the moment with them, saying or doing something they needed at the time. I was reminded that EVERYTHING we say and do has an impact. EVERY moment is important. I have always remembered why I am here, and followed through on the mission to the best of my ability at any given time.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am clearer about what I want in relationships. I no longer have the patience for complainers or shallow conversations. My philosophies of life are 'be what you want to see' and 'if we're not part of the solution, we're part of the problem'. I am very engaged in my life experiences and with the people around me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience was beyond my beliefs at the time. I do not have the words in the English language to adequately describe the experience. I equate it to witnessing an event or ritual in another culture/language, and coming back to my culture/language and trying to describe what I experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     To me everything is psychic, paranormal and special. I did have another interesting experience where I definitely left the body.

  I was dating a divorced man who had three teenage children. He and his 14 year old daughter were constantly battling. One evening, when I was frustrated with trying to mediate the situation on the spot, I left their house, saying 'I can't do anything here'. I went home and straight to bed. Even though it was only about 7:00 pm I went directly to sleep. At about 10:00 pm (I checked later) the phone rang, and although I was still asleep I felt like I slammed back into my bed. The man was in tears, and said he had just had the most loving insightful conversation with his daughter they ever had, and he thanked me for being with them. I knew I was in their space bringing the energy of love to the situation. Whilst sleeping I was not conscious of what I was doing on a human level, but I was aware on a higher consciousness that I could do something on another level.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        EVERYTHING was and is meaningful. I stopped guest lecturing at the university several years ago because I was bored with the story - it was old news after a while! Today as I write about it and revisit it again new information comes to me, and it becomes meaningful and significant in a different way.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As I recall, it was about 2 years before I started sharing my experience. At first, I was confused by it and skeptical because it was something that was beyond my beliefs at that time. Because I sustained a brain injury I thought for a while I was just 'not normal', which was the prognosis. A friend had a friend who was a university sociology professor. He was writing a book on the mind/body healing process, and was interested in speaking with me (the healing process for me was very quick, considering the severity of the injury). We got together and he invited me to speak in his class, then one of his associates invited me to speak in her class, etc., etc. I guest lectured at the university for about 8 years. Reactions from students differed of course. They were usually very accepting and open to a dialogue. I didn't 'lecture', but rather told a little of the basics of my story and encouraged them to ask questions or express their thoughts/feelings about the topic. We usually got into a great discussion. I also usually started the class by stating that I was simply sharing my experience and not trying to change anyone's beliefs. The feedback from the students was very good. They often said they were influenced in a positive way. The only thing I encouraged was opening their hearts and minds to the idea. If we open our hearts to anything and everything, we KNOW our truth.

  I've shared the experience with many friends. Primarily I spoke about many different aspects of the experience in the sociology classes at the university called Death, Dying and Bereavement. The class uses the text by the same name, written by Michael R. Leming & George E. Dickinson.

  Interestingly enough, the reason I checked into this web site for the first time is that a friend is now questioning me about the experience. He wants to know what 'evidence' I have to corroborate my story. How do I 'KNOW' this really happened and is not just my imagination? Well, I told him my passport has been stamped by the spirits, and I went online to see what, if any, 'evidence' I can point him to.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was always 'real' to me (maybe more real than the Earth school experience at times), but in the beginning I was hesitant to mention it to anyone because I didn't want to reinforce the idea that I might be abnormal because of the brain injury. The first couple of times I spoke at the university I envisioned being blasted with rotten fruit for having such a silly idea (just kidding!)The more I became comfortable with the experience and myself, the less I worried about what people are going to think of me or my ideas.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I don't take meds or any substances for the purpose of enhancing the Earth school experience. If drugged I might miss something!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was a gift :)  Although it was not a sudden understanding, the NDE solidified what was in my heart from the moment I came to this Earth school this time. I learned more about myself, others and the universe.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       For the questions with choices, allow the writer to choose more than one.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cara_nde.html