{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1candy_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Candy B NDE 254","mylang":"de"}
          	        Candy B NDE 254  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Candy B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1394 Candy B NDE 254  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a hysterectomy. I was out of recovery and in my room when I was allowed to walk to the restroom. I fainted in the restroom. I remember nurses snapping ammonia capsules under my nose but I couldn't stay conscious long enough to walk back to the bed. My toes dragged on the floor as they half-carried me to bed.

I was in bed when the doctor arrived. He began to push and feel around my stomach when someone screamed. At that time, I realized it was I who had screamed, but I wasn't 'there'. I was high up in a corner of the room watching them working on me. I 'saw' me scream rather than 'heard' it. The doctor was taking my blood pressure and said something about it being 35/0. He called for units of blood and was angry because they weren't thawed out. He gave me two units of a clear fluid, while the blood was being prepared. I continued to watch all the activity floating in a bright white light. It was peaceful and I didn't want to leave it but a thought of my three year old daughter made everything disappear and when I woke up I think it was three days later.

I woke up very angry and began to yell at my husband who had walked into my empty room because the hospital staff had removed me for a brief exam without informing him. In short, my family assumed I had died and had started making the 'calls' to other family members. I was angry at having to return.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Surgical procedure that left a blood clot grapefruit size in abdomen.  Post-operative complications.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I didn't 'see' my body as I floated; it was more of my mind and soul with no substance or body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't know how long this all took or when I woke up.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I didn't pass through but it seemed to be waiting just behind me.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright white light, warm feeling on my face.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, tranquility, serenity, warmth.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have a sort of psychic thing going with my sister.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I wanted to stay and be with my daughter, but I was so angry when I woke up.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm kinder, much more empathetic to the plight of others.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I could hear clearly what was being said and I could watch everything that was being done to me, I just can't express what I felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a sort of psychic thing going with my sister.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Peace was the best. The worst was not being able to talk about the experience until many years later. There was not much information on the subject so it was somewhat scary. Everyone thought you were crazy when you said anything.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most thought I was nuts. Others were envious.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Each time I have surgery, I have something go wrong, and end up scaring everyone for a minute or two.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1candy_b_nde.html