{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cameron_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Cameron H NDE 2985","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cameron H NDE 2985  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cameron H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1059  Cameron H NDE  2985  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  When I was six, my mother gave me chewable children's aspirin due to a fever. This caused the fever to go up and the doctor suggested giving me more. Finally In was at 106.5 degrees and I was rushed to the hospital. I went into a coma due to being diagnosed with Ryes Syndrome. During the coma, I was on life support and an instrument bolt was put in my head to measure brain pressure. My mother finally needed to leave my side to go to the restroom.  Then my life support dropped to zero. The doctors tried to bring me back to life. They were successful but I remember passing down a hallway that had no doors that was a soft grey tone. At the end, there was an open door with an immense light emitting through it. I felt like I was floating down the hallway straight to the door. I passed through it and was in this vast space that was like a giant Styrofoam sphere, that I was stuck on. I could only travel round and around. I then heard crying, beeps, and turned to look where the sound was. Then I was back in my hospital bed surrounded by beings that were floating around me. Ever since then I have the repeat visions just described that happen to me many times a month that come with a very bad feeling. Throughout the years now, I have learned to shut of the visions but the feeling still comes. Because of this experience, I have premonitions that come true and have never steered me wrong for others or myself around me. I can sense the outcome.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	12/01/1984  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Allergic reaction     Coma (ryes syndrome)  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I don't understand the question. I was in a coma and on life support so I guess that would classify as life threatening.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I came out of my coma after flat lining and was telling my family of the 'Aliens' that were floating around my hospital bed.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I came out of my coma after flat lining and was telling my family of the 'Aliens' that were floating around my hospital bed.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I believe I was seeing multiples of everything but I believe that to be due to the medications I was on.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A hallway that I traveled down that had no doors except at the end, which illuminated a bright light, which I passed through.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I didn't meet them and never spoke to them but the hovered around me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See above.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     I don't know where I was but it was as if it was made of styrofoam and was a large sphere that I continued to travel across untill I stopped and stared at the ground beneath my feet.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt confused but calm, not scared.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   none  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The images and beings that were gathered around me as well as when I walked down a hallway and through a door out into a vast space.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can tell when something is going to happen - something that might be a risk, I can tell if it will work out or not and then proceed accordingly to the feeling. I can feel it with other people in a predicament as well and see how it will work out before it does and then I tell them. Immediately following it comes true.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There were constant visions of the experience that lasted for years until I learned how to control them and shut out the visions, I now just get the feelings that would accompany them.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Friends and family.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed it as being true once I was fully recovered and knew what happened to me because it was constantly put into my head, i.e. - visions.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel like it was of complete reality since I have my medical record from the time and was told by my mother that I flat lined and my life support went to zero. I still have the premonitions that followed the experience to this day twenty-two years later and the feelings that the experience brought, monthly.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Don't think so.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Can't think of any.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cameron_h_nde.html