{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1cam_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Cam Possible NDE vs Drug Experience 3765","mylang":"de"}
          	        Cam Possible NDE vs Drug Experience 3765  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Cam Possible NDE vs Drug Experience  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE vs Drug Experience  			1759 Cam Possible NDE vs Drug Experience 3765  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was sixteen I was experimenting in 'huffing' solvents. Everyone experiences the ringing noise and feeling of being 'out of it'. When you have had too much, you simply lie back and your bag remains in your hand. You take a few minutes to become sober again.

I decided to take this further; I lay down first, then placed the bag on my face, and began inhaling the gas. That is the last I remember of consciousness before I was told they (friends I was with) thought I had died. One of them awoke to consciousness, saw me on the ground with the bag over my face suffocating, took it off, and began to slap me. I awoke.

Subconsciously, I can remember everything in great detail.

First came absolute darkness, then a bright orb of light. The light was more than light; it had a hexagonal tessellation of radiant yellow/orange, but mostly white. There it stood, an oval of light, then a line came out from the orb, and it went to the right and up, and then began forming a spiral. Then the line stopped just above it. I was told through the vision and somehow telepathic I understood, this is life. Life begins and life stops, and then begins again. The rebirth. The line began again, with a small gap in the spiral, and again, the spiral began, and stopped. This happened seven more times with gaps between each one, then the last line faded. 

I was told this process is never ending until... This is the last message I received, until you become one with... What was it I was told, I feel like I misinterpreted it as God. Nevertheless that's all I had. So I spoke with some Christians I knew about it. And reincarnation is not part of the religion. Hell and Heaven are forever. I always carried this with me, ten years later it was still at the forefront of my mind. I did more research and my vision of a spiral seemed to coincide with the 'Samsara' Dharmic faiths all follow this, I went to my local Buddhist nun, she had an answer for everything, and how the purpose of life was to 'Escape' the rebirth. This is exactly what I had seen; it was an awakening to the true meaning of life. I asked how to escape the Samsara. What followed was too hard to bare, I cannot escape the Samsara as the requirements demand to much, and too much adjusting, to be without 'ego' in any form is a burden I cannot place on my family.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Suffocating on insolvents bag  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was unconscious for around three minutes with a bread bag over my mouth suffocating.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was unsure how long I was gone, perhaps five minutes, my vision was only twenty seconds (in retrievable memory).

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The vision was Entopic. I was not light reflecting off objects into my eye of that spectrum of color. It was un-sensed color, only one who has seen it truly knows. Imagine seeing colors as an old Technicolor film, and this vision was on the level of fractal images on more than high resolution computer screen.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the constant ringing sound, but it was outer worldly, almost like - no, indescribable - sorry.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel is an entrance and exit into the grids. This is the crossover of life, we are judged in the grid world, if the tunnel goes down it's to a lower level, i.e. you did not perform virtuously in this life, if the tunnel goes up, go with it, you have performed virtuously.  This was also an understanding I came out of my journey with.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     The light was it, it was telepathically communicating. Don't think that's a being?

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An orb as described above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     only the grid dimension, which is the 'gateway'.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, awareness, wellbeing, comfort, intuitiveness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was a staunch atheist, now I am a believer of Samsara, which is not a religion.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   believer in reincarnation

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was a staunch atheist, now I am a believer of Samsara, which is not a religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The meaning of life, to escape the Samsara (or whatever particular religions call it).  Christians overruled its existence. The Celtic, San Tribes, Native Indian, Hindu, Buddhist, Aristotle all believed it until it was made 'heathen' (no disrespect to Christian beliefs).

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I told my girlfriend I wished to meditate with a nun and explained to her why. She was shaken and I now don't mention it to her, it's a journey I will take upon myself without affecting my relationships.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to communicate exactly. I saw a vision of light but it was more than light, it was everything.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I now know the truth of the rebirth.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Samsara was what life was about, I believe being sucked into a lower vortex was me dropping a 'level' in life, I fought it, and now I try to live virtuously, but that is still hard to do.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have told a few, like them I wouldn't know how to react, I'm now embarrassed of it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   My mother told me once I have an allergic reaction at a camp and was rushed to hospital and I was close to dying, I don't think that has any relevance here though.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's now twelve years since. I still believe it whole-heartedly, was it real? Yes, I believe so. I had no knowledge of the Samsara until I received my vision. I don't believe that I was 'supposed' to see it, I think I got there by accident.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1cam_possible_nde.html