{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1caan_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Caan S NDE 2031","mylang":"de"}
          	        Caan S NDE 2031  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Caan S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						494  Caan S NDE  2031  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  During the afternoon of May 15th, 2001 while working from atop of an eight feet ladder I lost my balance when the ladder I was working on moved. Unfortunately, I fell backward through a T-bar ceiling head first landing on concrete. As I tried to brace for the impact that I had surmised was sure to come in that short space of time I could hear the bones in my neck popping upon impact. At almost the same time my mind and body seemed to separate momentarily. The 'journey' though short lived can only be described as beautiful. There is a show called 'Sliders' on the Sci-Fi channel where the characters step into a tunnel of light and travel from world to world. The visual effects used to create that tunnel closely resemble what I experienced except in my case the tunnel was black and white and seemed to travel at high speed with me and around, me all at once. I got the impression that we are all part of a much bigger picture that God (Allah) has in store for us all. One of the opening verses in the Qur'an first chapter states that God (Allah) is Lord of all the worlds. During my journey I did not feel as though I was alone nor was I scared and believe it or not I did not care about my body or how it was doing. I was conscious during this ride, remember looking both left to right, and forward, up and down all while moving through this conduit back to the source of my life. I did not feel as though I had come to the end of my journey but had been given a chance to see what else is in store from God (Allah) the ALL IN ALL.

A co-worker had apparently grabbed me after I had fallen and hit my head a few times. Others describe my body hitting the concrete as a bouncing basketball. I can vividly remember this co-worker shaking me on my return because the first senses to reconnect after my conscious was my sight and hearing in that order. I was really upset with the guy who grabbed me. I'm sure it was because I had been disconnected only to be reconnected to this body, space, and time. I knew my accident was bad because my co-worker was pulling on me as I regained consciousness in this reality I could see what he was doing and how my body was twisted like a pretzel. Then my hearing returned in increments.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 5-17-01  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other traumatic, life threatening, loss of breath, and heartbounding exp.  Fell of a ladder and cracked my head and neck.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt as though this all happened to fast, and how could this be so vivid in such a small amount of time.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would have to say my most consciousness moments were during my ride. Because when I returned I found myself a mess.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     As I describe above a lot happen in a short amount of time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see in black and white and blues, and really bright.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear other entities around me asking questions, like I was asking questions, and giving or getting answers - all at peace all at once.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I'm sure because I asked questions and the responses were given telepathically outside of me to me and what I assumed were others like me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Like traveling through space super-fast or at warp speed to say the least.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     described above  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Amazed, curious, at peace, explorative, happy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     I learned that life is everywhere even if we can't see it.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        I won't tell though.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Al-Islam  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I truly do believe that Allah (God) has given man many roads to get to him and none has a monopoly on Heaven. But to be steadfast hold on and go.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Al-Islam  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I truly do believe that Allah (God) has given man many roads to get to him and none has a monopoly on Heaven. But to be steadfast hold on and go.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Like everything travels on one bandwidth back to Allah (God). Life exists in ways and places we have no knowledge of but to respect it all the same; because the sources are all the same. We, mankind, are part of a larger life force built on a big heap of love and knowledge all for one purpose to praise the Creator.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have changed slowly over the years since. I'm more carefree, forgiving, and more humble and I love diversity.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Though I still won't tell.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I almost drowned three times as a child and none of that compares to this experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I thought of myself as being on a journey right from the beginning because I knew I was hurt or had died.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real and do not even question it. All I do know is to compare and listen to others NDEs.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1caan_s_nde.html