{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1c_fde.html","mytitle":"C FDE 46","mylang":"de"}
          	        C FDE 46  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					C FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						102  C FDE  46  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I had just pulled into the University parking lot ready to go to class, when a man tapped on my car window.  All I could see was a hand I opened my door to see what he wanted.  He shoved a gun in my face and demanded money.  I gave him all I had which was pocket change.  He left but came back a few minutes later and demanded that I move to the passenger seat.  My keys were still in the ignition of the car when he got in and started my car.  He drove me to a bank ATM where I was instructed to withdraw money.  After the bank, he made me slide down in the seat so no one could see me.  He drove me to an alley in a housing area and demanded that I crawl into the back seat.


Before I crawled into the backseat, he placed the gun to my left temple and said he was going to shoot me because I could identify him.  I convinced him I couldn't identify him with God's help.  I crawled over the seat as he had asked. I had a coat in the back, which he told me to put over my head.  When the coat was over my head, he told me to take my pants off.  It was then that he placed the gun to head again.  I could tell it was the gun because of the weight and it was COLD. He cocked the hammer back and said he was going to kill me.


It was at this very moment that my experience happened.  I prayed to God that if this is his will I am ready, but begged him not to let my family find me this way especially my brother.  My heart began to raced and beat so hard in my chest I thought I was going to explode.  Then an incredible calm overcame me.  I saw this brilliant light like a million candles burning and felt an incredible sense of overall warmth.  Then I heard a voice originating from outside my body that said, "You will be okay." It was more of an "understanding" than a voice.


Later when I talked with my brother about this, he said he knew I was in trouble and went home to find me and to try and find our mother.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October 18, 1989

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Inner city combat?  I was a victim of armed rape.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was being held at gun point with the gun held to my head.I had a gun placed to my head and I heard the hammer cocked back ready to fire.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      All my senses were "hyper alert"

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt as if time did not exist and I could choose whether or not I wanted to return to "normal" functioning.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard a "voice" Please see explanation in detailed account reported earlier.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I felt a presence but don't know who or what it was.  Never saw the presence only felt it.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I felt at one point removed from my body, almost like it was happening to someone else and I was there as another person.  Not really and OBE.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Extreme fright then extreme calmness.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Love is important.  It is the most important lesson we can learn here.  How to love each other unconditionally.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw things that were important to me and important that I learned from this life.  I saw that love mattered and material things of this world are unimportant, but we’re here for each other.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     The only future event I was totally privy to was that I would be okay.  And well I am here today alive and well.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I had a feeling I had a purpose here that was unfulfilled and chose to return.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have become closer to God and hace no doubts about what lies beyond this world for us.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I can explain the light and the warmth felt but words just don't seem adequate.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I can sense life energy.  I have been able to see many people’s auras.  I saw my brother’s aura during a healing "laying on of the hands". He had "bad energy" removed out of the top of his spine.  I saw the bad energy removed and the new energy that replaced it.  I can sense and see the evil energy in some people.  It appears like a black or gray aura.  It is like I can also see in their soul through their eyes.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The rape was the worst and the best part was the experience of feeling like I met God or some sort of angel.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some believed and others scoffed but it did not matter then and does not matter now.  Some have been relieved and have drawn closer to God.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I had a "visitation" from a "being" approximately a month later in a dream which spoke to me in tongues.  I was the interpreter and again the message was that I would be okay.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1c_fde.html