{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1byun_ss_nde.html","mytitle":"Byun SS NDE 9409","mylang":"de"}
          	        Byun SS NDE 9409  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Byun SS NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5043 Byun SS NDE 9409  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    It happened when I was working at a construction site carrying bricks, as I was financially responsible for my family at a young age.  

  It was early morning when I was carrying bricks on my back and going up the zigzag stairs made temporarily against the outer wall of the four story building when I fell with the bricks to the bottom.  Afterwards, I was lying on a bed covered with a white sheet over my face and I saw my younger sister collapsed and wailing on the ground. Simultaneously, I was going up in the sky and saw the city of Seoul. Over in the distance there was a commercial airplane getting ready to land at the airport and I went in and flew around on top of the heads of the passengers and looked around, even inside the cockpit. Then, I looked at the Christ the Redeemer statute at Rio de Janeiro, the Eiffel Tower, London Bridge, Sydney Opera House, and places around Hong Kong.

  Suddenly, I saw in front of me images like a movie, playing everything I had ever done in my life from the time I was too young to remember any of them. When I was shown times when I had stolen a radish from a field because I was hungry, when I swore at someone, when I spat on the ground, and hitting my younger siblings etc. I felt tremendous pain in my heart when those actions were displayed in front of me. I remember vividly trying to avoid watching it but it was to No avail. While watching those scenes, I felt repentance for the bad actions I had taken deeply from my bones. Like being blown by a strong wind, I was inside a pastel colored deep fog which blew me to an extremely clean bright light in the distance. When I arrived, this color like of a baby chick, encompassed me with feelings of extreme peace and I conversed with an existence that I could not see and talked with feelings of thought and felt the answers. I knew there was an existence, a being, that was in the distance but could not see. I had No physical body, I just existed inside extreme peace with great sounding music coming from somewhere. 

  Suddenly, I remembered my siblings and thought of wanting to see them, and as soon as I thought this I was with my siblings in our hut and while looking at their faces, I felt nothing. As soon as I thought of a place I was instantaneously there, and while listening to the stories inside the bright light, I felt and realized that it was love.

  I saw overwhelming lights of fireworks in the darkness outside a window. I wanted to go and see it so I struggled off the bed I was lying on and fell to the floor. My body felt limp like it had No bones and I couldn’t make any sounds to ask for help. I don’t know how long I was on the cold floor but someone laid me back on my back and it was then that I was told that I returned from the morgue.   

  When I was discharged from the hospital, I was known as the child that died and came back to life, so the hospital deputy director and the nurses all came out and  sent me off.  

  While I was resting at home, I would see things that are hidden in people that are walking on the streets. The thoughts that they have in their hearts and where their hurt lies. Knowing what people were thinking as they passed me was fun at first but seeing it continuously became difficult.   

  Several years later, I went on a business trip with three senior work colleagues to Hong Kong. I was able to successfully guide them around from the time we were on the plane as I had seen it all before. When we arrived in Hong Kong, I remembered a fruit stall in a small alley behind the hotel we were staying at and purchased a bunch of bananas to the amazement of my colleagues. When I go overseas I am able to go around like a local because I recognize the streets I saw during the experience. Even now, I am able to see people differently, and after retirement I am currently lecturing around giving talks on life and death.  I am working hard to bring to the public, discussions of life after death and the meaning of dying well.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1966 or 1967  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I didn’t hear the detailed status of my condition but I later heard that I came back mid-way from the morgue.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I feel the clearest level of consciousness when I focus in serenity and calmness.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was inside the existence (light) and conversing with it that I felt extreme peace and fullness of love.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I felt that physical space and time had No meaning. When I studied something it went slower, when I moved it was instantaneous.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There is clearer vision than the everyday vision.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I remember there were No differences in hearing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The light was far away and the surrounding was bright throughout so I did not think it was a tunnel. I felt like I was pulled at an Incredibly fast speed.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light I saw was not a glaring light but a bright light. It was a comfortable brightness.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I felt an existence with energy watching me but I could not see it. It was not frightening or disconcerting, I just felt comfort and peace in this realm  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt nothing.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I saw planets like grains of sand in space, and recognized that one of them was a solar system. I felt like I already knew everything while looking around the expansive space.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will    

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   During my youth I attended church but I did not have faith or was conscious of God. However, I thought the light or  energy that greeted and guided me through telling me stories was an angel.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist   During this period, my life didn’t afford me the time to think about the existence of God.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     There were things I did not know as a young child.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I exclude all materialistic aspects of life and seek after spiritual life.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I knew the existence was nearby, which I cannot explain but just knew  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I knew from the existence in the form of light  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I heard to spread the message of love.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I knew from feeling that you have to live life in meekness and love.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I knew what the light was explaining  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     while dwelling inside the serene peace, I was told this is love.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I live an unrealistic life. I cannot go after materialistic life. I seek psychological and spiritual life. I want to be a meek person.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I look at myself, I trust myself and I rely on myself. I try continuously to maintain my clearness and brightness.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  At the overseas business trip, knowing and going to back alleyways, I was also surprised at myself.  There were several instances where I was able to read people’s lives and watching their reaction confirmed to me that what I was seeing was real.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have the ability to read people and things.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Definitely. I think I know the meaning and purpose of life.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    people find it interesting but I don’t think they really believe it. However, when I lecture to mature people, they are definitely interested, and reflect and change their attitude towards life.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      Right after the experience, there were some who looked at me as a mentally ill person. Due to that, I did not easily tell people about it and after 4~5 years I realized that it was real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     From the experience to present, I have lectured on attitude towards life because I am confident that the experience was real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I heard that others have met people who have died. I would like to experience seeing my parents again.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would like to help whenever it is needed.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1byun_ss_nde.html