{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1butch_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Butch Probable NDE 7993","mylang":"de"}
          	        Butch Probable NDE 7993  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Butch Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4148 Butch Probable NDE 7993  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am a runner and had won in my age group for four consecutive years.  

After running a 5k race  in the Smoky Mountains, I was driving with my wife back to the mountain house.  She wanted to go by the farmers market on the way back.  As I started to go down a little street, she insisted that I use a different road.  As I steered the car, my shoulders started to cramp, and then came a massive chest cramp.  I said, 'Something's really wrong.'  I went into full cardiac arrest while driving.  She put the car in park and started to scream for help.

In the farmers market, where two sisters were hiking, there was a nurse practitioner and a doctor buying vegetables!

I was dead on the ground for 10 minutes while they worked on me.  Two ambulances showed up  and shocked me ten or 12 times trying to get my heart to beat.  

During this time, I was in a tunnel surrounded by beautiful clouds with a light in the distance.  I could see a figure of someone in the mist.  Then I heard a soft, kind voice that told me to go back. 

They sent me to the hospital where I remained in a coma for four days.  When I woke up, the started asking me questions while pulling out the life support tubes. In the room I saw my family and a bunch of doctors.  One doctor said that I was a miracle and that someone was watching out for me.  He said that I should not have made it because it was the widow-maker blockage.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/25/2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   5-K mountain race

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Same.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the tunnel with the wind, clouds, and fog all around me with the big beautiful Light ahead of me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Nothing moved.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     There were clouds all around with a big light way out there.  Although the wind was going by, the light was not moving any closer to me.  I was a young man who was going forward but not moving.  Then I heard the beautiful voice.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a low white fog or mist with an opening at the end.  The light held such peace.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The tunnel

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt pure joy and goodness.  I felt no fear of anything.  I also was comforted that someone was making sure I was okay.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     This experience made me aware of how precious time is and that this life is a gift given to us to do good with, not just go through without helping others.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is something else.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard a man's soft voice with the love and kindness of a woman.  It was like the voice of Everybody that loved me.  I will never forget it, no matter how long I live. It filled me with love.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   A man's soft voice; I knew in my heart, the one he Saved and who the voice was.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     He whispered in my right ear, God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Enjoy every single day and pay it forward.  Help those that need a hand.  God is real; I never got to meet him, BUT I heard his voice.  Do good to all.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     Life is nothing of which to be afraid.  It's safe and full of joy and love.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Beyond the tunnel, it's real, it’s good, and it’s safe.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It was all over me.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Nothing but love  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Compassion

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I am asked all the time by everyone, ‘a great runner who died and saw something’.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When a storm comes by, the clouds and light      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1butch_probable_nde.html