{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1burt_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Burt G NDE 5289","mylang":"de"}
          	        Burt G NDE 5289  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Burt G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2777 Burt G NDE 5289  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was suffering from Rocky Mountain spotted tick fever. I was having experiences that are very hard to describe. Hallucinations had become everyday experiences for me. I remember some of them, but thank God have forgotten most. I remember almost nothing about 04/08/2010 except my NDE. I told my wife about it, but she was skeptical until I told her which bathroom I was in and the position of my body.

I was having this delusion that I was half man and half dog, with super human strength (this is one of the memories I retain) when I found myself floating out of my body. The best way for me to describe the feelings I had when this happened has taken me almost a year to figure out, and I got it from watching my beloved dog Samson. I was making a funny noise at him, just to watch him cock his head.  Dog lovers have all watched and laughed at our dogs for doing this. 

What I realized was that my dog's feeling of bewilderment was the same bewilderment I felt, looking down at my own body! After a second or so, a sense of peace overcame all my emotions, and I knew I was looking at my now lifeless body. I did not care! It was a relief to know it was over. I knew I was very near Heaven - but almost instantly, I knew I could not stay there. It seems like it happened both in a second and in fifteen minutes all at once. In the place where I found myself, time had no meaning whatsoever. That feeling of being complete remains with me, and sometimes for a brief instant, I get a glimpse of what I felt - and I wish everyone could have this feeling!! Then all of a sudden - wham - I was right back in that painful crumpled body on the floor. It felt like I was pushed, and I did not want to go back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  4-8-2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  acute rocky mountain spotted tick fever  Other 'I saw my body on the bathroom floor, and i have never felt such peace-ever'  I was in the advanced stages of Rocky Mountain spotted tick fever, having seizures. I was air lifted to Roanoke hospital and put on life support.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During my NDE.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my NDE.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew that time has no meaning in the presence of God.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My observations were limited by the fact that, while I did realize that I was looking down at my own body, it was over very quickly. I never even looked around. I was transfixed, staring at my body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing any sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   There was a presence above me and I knew it was very bright, but my experience was over so quickly that I did not get a chance to look at it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Only love and joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew my body lay dead on the floor and it did not bother me in the least. I was very grateful that this life was over, for I knew I was very near Heaven, but at the same time, I knew I would not be able to stay there.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have more compassion and forgiveness than I used to have. I feel as if I have special knowledge now that was shown to me for a reason. Others need to hear about this.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was hard trying to make others understand the degree of peace I felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sometimes some things seem very strange to me now, but I still don't understand it much.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, knowing that there was a presence of absolute goodness there, and that there was nothing to worry about.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Right away I felt that the experience was 'definitely real.' I was not sure what had happened until it came clearly to me after I told Tonda about my experience, and she and I had the exact same memory of what my body looked like lying on the floor. And when I could not remember anything else. There is no other explanation.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see the experience as 'definitely real.' I know in my heart it is real. The amount of love and joy I felt - I know there is no other worldly human experience like this, nothing on Earth has ever come close to this for me - not before or after my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask if anyone had a 'dark' experience and how it has changed their ways, if at all. Mind you, I was no angel before my experience - but I have always believed in God.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1burt_g_nde.html