{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1burnie_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Burnie A NDE 205","mylang":"de"}
          	        Burnie A NDE 205  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Burnie A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1422 Burnie A NDE 205  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was unconscious I felt like I was watching a play, I was traveling to different places, some fields, riverbeds, and my home.

I saw myself as an older teenager and I saw a few other people that I had never met as if I was watching them on TV. I saw things happening to them that were not good. When I saw myself I was in a field with some guy (at the time I had no idea who he was) I saw him try to force himself on me, I also saw a gun and a few other blurry people hanging around. A few years later, I went to a party with some friends that was just outside the city limits. When it started to get dark I started to have incredible flash backs to what I saw when I was under, I decided to disappear because too many things seemed too familiar. The next day I found out that one of my friends was raped at gun point by someone who looked just like the guy I saw in my vision.

The other people I saw in vision were mostly women getting hurt in some way, a couple of just bodies and people walking away from them. Over the next six or seven years most of the visions I saw came true, to some of the people that I knew and some were reported on TV and I had no idea who they were at all.

Since then I still occasionally get visions when I'm asleep or just zoned out in class, of things happening to people who I don't know, which I see in the news or something just a little while later. It's kind of creepy; I wish I knew if I could use this to help some of these people before the pain.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  JANUARY 1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was unconscious from an overdose to medicine, suicide attempt.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Like I said above, it was like I was floating around all these other situations

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was not alert to the outside world at all. When it happens now I still am not in touch with the 'present world' at all, it's like a daydream just way more realistic.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Nothing unusual just the sounds and noises you would expect in the senses I was watching.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just other people even though I didn't know who they were.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was disturbing it was too real it seemed to be a TV show so I was scared and confused, I couldn't understand what was going on or why. I now get so frustrated that I can't do anything except watch it happen.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I feel now that I get these visions to try and help someone, I am going to school to get a degree in a field where it might help.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     This awareness his been mostly accurate on all the visions so far and the ones that haven't happened yet but I'm sure someday they will.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I really believe in psychic abilities now and in reincarnation.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to explain because people don't understand that I saw things that have never happened but has happened in the future from that date, they believe it's just a fluke or an overactive imagination.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Like I said, I now get visions of things happening to people, or I see the outcome of certain things (situations).

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst part was the ultimate violence I was seeing and the feeling of utter helplessness, also the feeling of stupidity when no one believed me later. The best is now I realized it's saved me from a few horrible things.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with a few close friends over the years but they always thought I was kidding so now I don't share it with anyone, I'm only sharing this here so that it may help studies or research.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1burnie_a_nde.html