{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bunny_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Bunny J NDE 364","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bunny J NDE 364  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bunny J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1358 Bunny J NDE 364  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Originally, I was run off the road and kidnapped. When I tried to jump out of the car, I was then beaten with a tire-iron. At that time, I was in and out. Maybe about thirty minutes later, after he did 'his thing', I was taken outside of my body, outside of the car, and wrapped with this most incredible feeling of power and peace. It was God!! God then asked if I wanted to stay here on earth or go with Him. Of course, I said I wanted to go with you God. He said, 'Okay, let me just show you something first.' He put me at my funeral, under the ground, on a grey drizzly day; I was in my casket with my hands folded on my stomach. All my friends and family were there and all I could see were their grey tears. God said, 'Is this how you want your friends and family to remember you?' I think I said no, but I still would rather go with you God.

Well, three days later I woke up, and freaked out that I was alive. I 'thought' I had said I wanted to go with God!!! Well, my minister was called and we had a long talk about it - and here I am. I 'tried' to think of why God would want me to stay, and yes I have two beautiful children, but sometimes I really do have a hard time figuring out what else I am here for.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2/16/77

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death My rights were also read to me when I got to the hospital.  I was left for dead at the base of a mountain at sixteen degrees below zero.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt so light, free, and pain-free in God's arms. It was the best!!!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not very conscious - but when God took me out of the car, I felt fine, no pain!!!

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total relaxation, spiritual, weightless, HAPPY!!!!!!!

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Well, I learned that there is NO fear in dying!!!! Sometimes I actually get down and out because that was soooo much better than here.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My funeral.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   God asked me if I wanted to stay or go with Him. Of course, I said YES, but after showing me my funeral, I guess I changed my mind.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   protestant

What is your religion now?       Moderate   protestant

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I've always had some degree of psychic capabilities (not a lot, just 'some') My mom and grandmother did also. And my eleven year old is showing signs too now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best was being so safe and comfortable in God's arms.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Everybody would say wowwwww that's sooooo neat.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have since been diagnosed Bipolar, and even with medications find it difficult to cope knowing Life is soooo much better with God. Sometimes, it's almost like this 'life' is like a farce, and I sometimes get bitter towards people.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Is there anyone else out there?    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bunny_j_nde.html