{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bunnie_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Bunnie M NDE 21637","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bunnie M NDE 21637  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bunnie M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1148  Bunnie M NDE  21637  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was coming out of the anesthesia, in a lot of pain and having difficulty breathing, I could hear the monitor beeping and see the clock and bulletin board on the wall, and then the monitor slowed and stopped beeping.  A nurse was saying, 'Stay with us', and I remember thinking, 'There sure are a lot of tubes in my head. Wait, that's the top of my head' and I was looking down as if my head were in my lap and a nurse with long brunette hair was rubbing my right arm, then someone called for an 'epi drip.' I looked to see the time, and the clock and bulletin board were nothing but bright light. I thought, 'If that's me down there, then where am I and why am I no longer having trouble breathing?  Well, at least I am thinking and that light is very pretty. If this is it, and I am dying, where are you Daddy because I am not facing this alone. Better yet, I am not going to die, just because I am having wisdom teeth pulled.' 

Then I felt a strong jolt and I felt a lot of pain and was having a hard time breathing again, and I remember thinking, 'Thanks God, but it was awfully peaceful, and I sure do hurt right now, but it's good to be back.'

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1995

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death .  The attending doctor was trying to revive me.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My vision was working, I was aware I wasn't breathing and obviously no tactile sensations as I felt no pain.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very conscious and alert mentally although my body was 'unconscious' I was told later that I should not have been able to hear 'epi drip' and that, yes, I was clinically dead.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I was very aware that I was in altered space. I knew I was no longer in the recovery room and must have been in some dimension between living and dying.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   White light, all around

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could hear at first sounds 'below' me but they disappeared as I pulled away.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was amazed that I had my same personality.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     I have always had some knowledge of future events on a familial basis.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I asked to come back, although I am usually one to pray and was surprised that I was so flippant in my manner about it

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Most people talk about how profoundly these experiences change their lives.  I am still afraid of dying. I still believe in God. My intellect can still argue that this was all just a hallucination but the faith side says I wasn't expecting anything to happen. How did I come up with a white light wall?

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     If anything, mine have decreased.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the feeling when looking at the light. The worst was the realization that I was not breathing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mixed

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      If it happens again, I still will ask to come back.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bunnie_m_nde.html