{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1buffy_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Buffy N NDE 300","mylang":"de"}
          	        Buffy N NDE 300  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Buffy N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1373 Buffy N NDE 300  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I only remember looking down, from the left hand corner of the room, on a bed with someone in it and people around it doing something to that person. I had absolutely no feeling whatsoever. It was a quiet that was more than quiet.  There were no emotions at all. At the time, I wasn't thinking or hearing anything, just watching. When I awoke a day or so later was when I realized what a horrifying experience it was -- totally cold and silent. It took me years to even mention this to anyone and I have never mentioned it to my family doctor even though after all this time and him knowing me I know he would not believe me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   When I awoke I had bruises on my chest from someone trying to get my heart started.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I'm assuming it was me on the bed, but I didn't actually see my face.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No sense of time at all -- just nothing.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Dead silence.

The experience included:       Void

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   catholic

What is your religion now?       Moderate   catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     At first was terrified of really dying because of the fact that there was nothing in terms of feelings -- just a great nothingness.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't want anyone to think I was crazy even though I'd attempted suicide. I had never heard the expression 'near death experience'.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The only good that came out of it was I didn't mix alcohol and valium anymore. I eventually stopped drinking altogether.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only a very few people whom I trust. I think they thought I was hallucinating, but I know I wasn't. I had hallucinations in the past while drunk and this wasn't one.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I know it may not even be considered a NDE, but it was close enough for me.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1buffy_n_nde.html