{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bub_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Bub D NDE 8046","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bub D NDE 8046  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bub D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4181 Bub D NDE 8046  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was approximately 8 years old, my Father took my brother and me to see a wrestling match about an hour and a half away. On the way there, I developed a severe headache.  I was very sleepy, dizzy and nauseated. I told my Dad but we kept driving to go to the wrestling matches. We were there for about 2 to 3 hours.  Then we headed back home. I was still nauseated, sleepy, and dizzy and had a severe headache.  My brother and I fell asleep. I am not sure how long we were sleeping, but the experience wasn't long after we were headed back home. 
 
 The next thing I knew I was out of my body and watching my Dad and girlfriend pulling our bodies out of the car. My dad and his girlfriend were very frantic trying to revive us. I just kept watching them while I was out of my body. I didn't know what was happening and how I could be above them watching them. I tried to make contact with my Dad to tell him that I was there, but he couldn't hear me. I couldn't feel him touching me when he was trying to work on me. I could only see everything that was happening. I was not scared at all for some reason. 
 
 Then I saw the beautiful bright light that started as a dot but got bigger and bigger. The bigger the light got, the farther away my Dad's voice got.  I still wasn't scared. The light was so filled with LOVE.  This was a love, which to this day, I still have not felt since then. There was darkness on the opposite side where the light still hadn't reached, but the more the light consumed me the more the darkness faded. Only a speck of darkness remained where my Dad was still trying to revive me.  There were all these beings, which I didn't know, but yet, I could feel so much LOVE.  There seemed to be one main person who was standing there waiting for me.  I didn't know him, but wanted to jump in his arms because I could feel so much LOVE. Then I saw the beautiful place behind him.  There are no words to explain. As I was almost totally in that beautiful place with all those beings, I realized I couldn't hear my Dad's voice anymore. 
 
Then someone told me I was dying but didn't speak in words.  Everything was heard through the mind only. I really didn't know what to think about it because I didn't know what dying was about.  I thought about when an animal dies and doesn't come back, and that's when I started to be afraid. I was afraid because I wouldn't see my Dad anymore where I was going. I asked the main person if I could go back to my Dad.  Yet, I wanted to stay there because it was SO BEAUTIFUL. He told me to turn around and I can go back to my Dad. I hesitated, because I wanted to stay there too but he said, 'It's ok.' So I turned around to see my Dad crying; kneeling over my brother and me.  Then I was back in my body and I could feel him touching me and holding me in his arms. I couldn't wake myself up at first. It took a while, but after several minutes, I finally opened my eyes. It was very, very hard to do but I did. Dad never let us sleep that night until the following night.  He was too afraid we wouldn't wake up again. He never called an ambulance or took us to a hospital for carbon monoxide poisoning. My brother and I were very lucky to have survived this incident. We were so severely poisoned, that it's a miracle we survived.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Oct 1968

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.           Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Carbon Monoxide Poisoning

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See Experience  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   This is very difficult to explain but the only words I can say are that my consciousness and alertness were way above this lifetime. I was everywhere in splits of seconds. I really don't know the words to describe this answer.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I was floating above my body watching everything. I was very alert and conscious of everything happening except I couldn't figure why or how this could be happening.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time. Everything seemed to happen at once. I could be everywhere at the same time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I am not afraid of anything especially death.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Can't explain this

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was dark with a tiny speck of light but I was not afraid at all of the darkness. All I could feel was happiness and LOVE.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     I saw people or beings but I did not know them

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a beautiful light that you will never see in this lifetime. That light is SO bright but it doesn't hurt your eyes at all. I didn't walk towards it but instead it pulled me like a magnet. It was Very gentle.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw people or beings but I did not know them. There was one main person that was a man. It's so difficult for me to explain this. The place was so incredibly beautiful. This word doesn't even describe it.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very happy, so much LOVE.  Then I got scared when I was told I was dying.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I knew that if I did not turn around to see my Dad I would not be back on earth. I knew the bright light would consume all around me and that there was no going back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   The man told me it was ok to turn around to come back to my Dad. I didn't go at first because I was scared to continue.  I knew I wouldn't be with my Dad but yet it was so beautiful and so much LOVE I wanted to stay and continue with all those beings and him, the main guy.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist   I didn't have any religious background. Didn't even know of anything called Heaven, God or Jesus. I was too young and my parents never told me about anything religious.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I didn't have any before my experience but I know, now, that Heaven, Jesus and God do exist, without a doubt.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Later in life, in my 20's I learned the Cathlic religion because I always wondered what happened to me when I was young.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I didn't have any beliefs of anything. I was too young. I was never raised with any religion. I didn't even know or hear about a place called Heaven, nor did I ever hear of the name Jesus or God.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     As I got older, I searched out the study of Jesus and God. I believe the main man in my NDE was Jesus. Without a doubt, I know Heaven, Jesus and God exist. I live my life based on my experience and do the best I can on this earth.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I heard the voice in my head. There were no words.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     There was so much LOVE.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I care a lot about other people and always want to help others. Besides being compassionate and caring I also developed higher senses such as ESP, I can sometimes feel another person's feelings,

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   This was very difficult.  I can still to this day remember everything about it but I have a very hard time to describing it.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I remember that experience better than any experience throughout my entire life. I will NEVER forget it. Even to this day, I still can't find the vocabulary to explain it. No words do any justice for description of it but in my mind, I will always remember it very well.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see or feel things that are about to happen. I have a higher sense of premonition than probably the normal person does. I can feel other peopleâ€™s feelings at times. Sometimes when I have an encounter with a very bad person, I can sense the evil.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience is very meaningful to me; there is not only one thing but also the entire experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Me and my brother that was dying with me, shared our experience right away but then we never told anyone else until we were adults because I thought people would think I was crazy, especially the ESP stuff. The only people I told were people I trusted. Only about 10 people know of this experience. My sons know I have ESP because I have proven several times to them so they trust my judgment.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew that whatever it was that happened to me was real but at the same time so confusing, because I didn't know anything about spirituality of any kind.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know without any doubt that my NDE was very real, more real than the life on this earth.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain about this question

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I know that there is a LOVE much, much greater than what we, as humans on this earth, will ever experience here. This world is only our beginning to what is after this life.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is nice just to see NDEs are finally being researched.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bub_d_nde.html