{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bryan_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Bryan S NDE 2528","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bryan S NDE 2528  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bryan S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						804  Bryan S NDE  2528  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

I have had numerous occurrences, but they almost always start the same. Your back opposite of your solar plexus locks up, and then it runs down your legs where you cannot move, followed by up your shoulders and then down your hands where you cannot bend them. Next, it runs up your head and squeezes your ears to a high-pitched shrill, followed by the squeezing out of light in your eyes. Once your eyesight goes, it is a very quick point to the release from your body.

I traveled up an upside down inverted hurricane tunnel that spun counter-clockwise that was filled with the brightest of bright neon colors from the brightest sunsets from clouds that were also wrapped in the bright light of fire flames that did not burn. As I traveled up, the white light and aqua/royal blue colors increased. You could see your body prism/shadow, although you really had no body to speak of. You just thought it was there but it was not kind of like an amputee having to scratch their stub for an itch on their 'foot.' Once I got to the top of the hurricane, I was in the inside of a globe-like room that also spun counter-clockwise with twelve portals or 'windows' that also let in light. Not that I am a Bible person, but I think those were the twelve gates. My life pictures flashed through the holes of the globe and going up in the inverted hurricane that got smaller in width as I traveled upward.

The life pictures were divided into three categories with eighteen good life experiences with respect to people and your life, eighteen bad deed pictures that you regret, and eighteen nature pictures of your favorite beaches, travels, sunsets, etc. My good pictures outweighed my bad pictures, probably because I had an NDE at such a young age and kind of knew the rules to that 'game.'

The globe or 'judgment room' had walls that spun fast and seemed to be made out of water from the brightest colors of water from the best coral reefs on earth but far brighter. Up above or at the ceiling, there was a golden triangle from which the brightest of lights came from, and there were these star beings that fly or swam in the densest of lights. As they collided, they made this reverberating love feeling like the ripple effect when someone throws a stone into water but this was love not water. It sprinkled down onto you and is the single greatest type of love that I have ever experienced. The remaining portion of the ceiling was created by the bright fire and cloud bank but did not burn and actually went sideways from the triangle to the 'water walls.' All the while, your life pictures are flashing brilliantly through the light.

It ends very abruptly and brutally with a very deep and painful fall back into your over-charged body. They seem to get more difficult to get over and not easier, and you become more detached from living on earth and not less each one you have. They are a 'heavenly blessing' but an 'earthly curse.' It's never the same after that visit.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Various (several 8, 13, 15, 17, 36, 37)  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Surgery-relatedAllergic reaction       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I have had several, but the most recent involved complications after a post-surgery. I probably had ten to twenty episodes in a very condensed period. I inadvertently kept a journal about some of them and have tried to clean it up to make more technical/scientific sense of it. My earliest was about eight when I almost choked to death jumping a fence and getting my coat caught on the fence.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything is so pure up there. All are silent, and there are no lies. There is no time, and there are no games. There is no 'self' or isolation. All beings up there are for the same cause and are one giant bond that are effectively the greatest creation of the universe - just not the 'physical universe' the anti-matter of the universe so to speak.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When viewing the groups of eighteen life pictures.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was no time, because there were no choices. No one ages, because it is eternal.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     You see, but you don't see with eyes. The light is way too bright, and the way your 'being' or soul works up there is different from earth. It is like communication. They talk or communicate, but they don't use mouths or verbal words. It's kind of like Billy Idol's 'Eyes Without A Face' - 'They've got no human race, you're eyes without a face'.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There really is no 'hearing.' There is communication but not verbally. Everything is silent with communication coming from within. No communication, no lies, heaven.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Talked about above.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The beings were in the light and resembled small moving stars about the size of a golf ball but made of electro-static light that was brighter than the lights of the heavens. They are what are referred to as 'angels,' but they don't have human bodies like those sold in stores on earth. Then again, who would buy a star-looking thing. You don't need legs after walking on earth, and there is no ground up there.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Technically, it was like a haze it's a light but it is so dense that it is almost water. It is somewhere in-between the two substances but is neither. It's not either, because it is both oneness and love. It is God, Heaven, and the Universe, and I am not a church going person nor will I ever be. Why, I saw the right place.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My last NDE, I really was gone and blew past the gate or triangle a way deep into the light.  There are clearly three levels of Heaven.  The light at or near the top is so intense you can barely survive in it.  It is like this high powered electro light jet slide ride of water-like love that is somewhat like traveling through a wormhole or a really big water slide / tube on earth.  You look up into Heaven at the lowest level.  There are no actual divisions, but I do not think that your being can survive in the denser or higher levels if you are not supposed to be there.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, oneness, glory, peace, serenity, no time, eternal bliss.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     See above. It's really odd. Some of your life pictures you would never guess, yet they make perfect sense and really shaped your life. For example, one of my bad pictures was when a girl gave me too much money at a fair booth when I bought food and I walked away. She caught my eye and knew what happened but I never made amends. That haunts me to this day, particularly after almost dying. It was just one of those teenage things but certainly makes you think about future actions. And, my daughter's smile and hug was in there to but in the good category. The pictures rotate from good to bad to nature and repeat the cycle once all eighteen of each group are shown. I wrote down or remembered just about all to get the eighteen-count after having so many NDE's so quickly.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   raised both Baptist and Presbyterian, although I really don't follow the churches anymore.  They are all too much like non-profit corporations to me  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   'For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.' If we currently live in the 'physical universe' that is filled with matter, then the second place is the 'anti-matter' place or Heaven and Hell. You don't have your body but you exist. Death is a really bad name for what happens to us in the future. Deceased on earth is more appropriate.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am not good with relationships anymore.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   But, words do not do it justice.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am not better off. I cannot be around many people and seemed to have developed some form of mental Turrets when around others. I used to be very social. I only like being outside and in nature and not around cities or people.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Primarily the love on the other side that is unconditional as well as the oneness with the universe. Love on earth falls dramatically short after seeing the light.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It does not matter what they think.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   But, I have not really studied it like I have this past year.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't really have time to think about it at that point.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am certainly not afraid of death. I arguably want to die as soon as possible but not in a suicidal way.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was incredible to see the other side, and I would gladly do it again even if it were only for a few seconds. Having said that, it makes you lonelier here.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think that you could divide the NDE portion from leaving the body, to the tunnel, to the 'gate', to the light, if you wanted and make it more overall accurate. I have done it often enough that it always goes in that sequence if you follow the light. If you don't go up, then there's that hovering effect over your own body, which is not really the same thing.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bryan_s_nde.html