{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bruna_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Bruna D NDE 2653","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bruna D NDE 2653  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bruna D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						870  Bruna D NDE  2653  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was eleven years old, my brother eight years. We were at a public swimming pool; there were many people around as it was school holidays. My brother dived into the shallow end of the big pool and I realized he was struggling. Without thinking, I dived in. He grabbed my shoulders and clambered on top of me to get air.  In so doing, I went under and lost consciousness. I remember leaving my body, watching them resuscitating me. I felt the man's lips on me as he breathed into me. I could hear my dead granny calling me in Italian. I was floating, not walking but upright, like those conveyor belts at the airports, towards a very bright light. I felt an emotional tugging as I kept looking back and watched them resuscitating me. I watched my brother run and hide in the public toilets behind the middle door. I was very calm, no struggling. I read the label on the back of the lifesaver's shirt and remember it distinctly. Then I told my granny I wanted to go back, there was no disappointment, no turmoil. I opened my eyes as they were about to breath into me again. My mother rushed us back to the hotel, as she was embarrassed at the spectacle I had caused. At the dinner that night as stated above she freaked out that I knew where my brother hid.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 can't remember  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       I jumped into the swimming pool to save my brother who was drowning, not realizing I could not reach the bottom either  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) I was resuscitated for close to 10-12 minutes  Drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was neither heightened; it was or seemed the most natural thing to look down on myself.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think when I watched them resuscitating me.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I remember a very distinct sound as I walked towards the light in response to my granny's voice it sounded like a gentle rustling of leaves about my feet but never in a threatening way.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was more like tall walls closing in on me but not in a threatening or frightening manner.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was at the end where the gentle voice of my grandmother was coming from.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was calm, at peace, not scared. I felt the answer to staying or following my grandmother was okay whichever way I answered. I felt good to be placed in such an important position to make such a big decision. I felt whatever my answer it would not disappoint anyone.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was too young to have any  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Not religious.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Not religious at all  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Not religious.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that if I chose to return to my body my decision was not going to disappoint anyone.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I felt no one would believe me. My mother was very disturbed by it. She asked my brother where he had gone to hide, and I answered before he did. He was taken aback as I was being resuscitated at the time. I explained I left my body and watched him hide. My mother threatened me and said I must never speak about it again.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes, I cannot explain it, when I am resuscitating a patient I am calm in knowing I will not bring him back.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Three friends, much later on in my life, when I had forgotten about it and it came up in conversation and I remember it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was very young and forgot about it as my mother put the fear of God into me if I ever spoke of it. I only remembered it about twenty-five years later when it came up in conversation.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was a very real, process; I have resuscitated countless patients and watched them go peacefully, even the suicides.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bruna_d_nde.html