{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 3995","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n4_may_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N4 May 1884","mylang":"de"}
No. IV.] [MAY, 188••
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
•••• 49
50
4il
51
52
Meeting of Council.. . . . . ••
Occaaional Meeting .. . . . . . .
BlectloDS, May 2nd, l884 . . . . .. . •
Notices of Work done by Committees ••
Cambridge Branch of the S.P.R. ••••
Specimens of the Clasaillcatlon of Impres-
mons and Apparitions at lloments of
Death or Danger . . . . . . . . . . 54
Obituary •• •• •• •• •• •• •• •• 56
PAOK
Report on the Alleged Manifestations at
Arundel, SllI8ex (with diagrams).. .. fii
Involuntary Guidance without Contaet . 113
Chance Guessing 17er1tU Thought-trana·
ference.. .. •. .. .. .. .. .. 65
Alleged Cures of Anrosthuia by Mag·
netlam.. .. .. .. .. .. .. ., 65
Supplementary Library CatBiogne 68
MEETING OF OOUNCIL.
A Oouncil Meeting was held on May the 2nd, the President in the
chair, when Messrs. Alexander Oalder, Walter H. Ooffin, Edmund
Gurney, O. O. Massey, F. W. H. Myers, Edward R. Pease, E. Dawson
Rogers, J. Herbert Stack, and Dr. Wyld were present.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as
correct.
The Rev. J. A. Macdonald, of Manchester, and Mr. Edward Grubb,
of York, were elected as Honorary Members, under the second section
of Rule 8, in recognition of the services they have rendered to the
Society.
Eleven new Members and ABBociates were elected whose names and
addreBSeB are given in another page.
Letters were read from Mr. Desmond G. FitzGerald, asking to be
transferred from the list of Members to that of ABBociates, and of resig-
nation from Mr. A. Kimber and Mrs. Dudley Sampson on the ground
that both husband and wife in each case were Members or ABBOciates.
A letter was read from the Hon. Sec. of the Swedenborg Society ac-
companying a present from that Societyto the Library of the S.P.R. of
an extensive series of Swedenborg's works, and of other books published
by the Swedenborg Society. Resolved that the thanks of the Oouncil
be given to the Society for their kind and liberal donation.
A letter was read from a firm of publishers in New York, asking ,
for permission to publish the Proceedings of the Society in the Uni~d
States. Referred to the Secretary to make further inquiries. .'
The Secretary reported that the publishers, Messrs. Triibner, had
furnished a statement, showing that .£21 Is. 8d. had been. received
for sale of the Proceedings from July to December, 1883.
The Hon. Sec., Mr. Edmund Gurney, informed the Oouncil that,
Digitized by Google
Journal of Societu/or P8!1chicftl Researek. [Hay, 18&1.
since the last meeting, he had delivered a lecture at Manchester and at
Liverpool, on "A Theory of Apparitions," the lecture being in the main
the third Report of the Literary Committee.
It was agreed that a General Meeting of the Society be held on
Wednesday, the 28th of May, at 4 p.m., at Queen Anne's Mansions;
at which it is intended that the programme shall be as follows :-
Remarks by the Prcsident.
Fourth Report of tbe Literary Committee.
Firet Report on Contemporary Evidence of "Phantasms of the Living
in India."
It was agreed that the following paragraphs should be printed on a
slip and insertt'd in Proceedings, Part V., by way of explanation, and
that the slip should be enclosed in the next number of the Journal, for
the benefit of Mcmbers to whom copies had been already sent out.
ERRATA:
In Part V. of the P,·oceedill!13.
In page 10, lines 14, 15, for "experiments performed under this
IllSt condition-a condition which precludes any unconscious guidance
from the 'agent' "-read "experiments performed under conditions
which preclude the possibility of unconscious ~idance from the
, agent.''' And ~d the f~~:,~he wOJ.'u "contact," in the
eighth line from the bo~tJf':ttie. ~~11Ie. pag~.
It should be borne iq
..iu~c1 thM '.clieMionl. . be unconsciously given
otherwise than t~ught.01J~: ?f. Proc~ed~,~t .t I., pp.18, 19,.&c••
In page 55, hne 1~, ()mtt. the 1igllre'l.bafore 7,000. And m line
25 of the laIne page,for,~~657,000ths x 10, rettdlar.;ooJ x 10.
The next Meeting of the ,O~~:ricil WI"! take place on Wednesday,
May 28th, at 2.45 p.m. There 'will be another Meeting of the Council
on Friday, June 6th, at 4.45 p.m.
OCCASIONAL MEETING.
An occasional meeting of 1Iembers and Associates was held at
Queen Anne's Mansions, on Wednesday, April 30th, at 4 p.m. The
meeting was addressed by Colonel Olcott, President of the Theo-
sophical Society, and Mr. Mohini Chatterji, a Brahmin Theosophist.
These latter gentlemen gave an account of some experiences
of their own, with the view of demonstrating that certain persons
known as "adepts" possess the power of producing apparitions
of themselves at a distance, especially to persons with whom they
are in some way en rapport. These narratives, though of a different
order from those which the Society has so far collected. possess sufficient
points of analogy to suggest many interesting questions. They were
listened to with marked interest and attention, and a general wish was
expressed that further opportunities might be afforded of hearing and
questioning the bearers of a message so extraordinary. A small
Committee has subsequently been appointed to take the evidence which
Colonel Olcott, Mr. Mohini, and Mr. Sinnett have kindly volunteered
to give, as regards these Oriental apparitions; and it is hoped that &
first Report from thisCommittee may be laid before the General Meeting
on May ~8th.
Digitized by Google
May, 1884.) JOltl'1aal qf Societ!/jor P8ychical Re8earch. 51
ELECTIONS, MAY 2ND, 1884.
HONORARY MElmERS.
GRUBB, EDWARD,* 8, Holly Terrace, York.
MACDONALD, REV. J. A.,* 19, Heywood Street, Cheetham, Manchester.
MEMBERS.
CARPENTER, MAJOR GEO. W. WALLACE, 28, Ashley Place, Victoria
Street, London, S.W.
HOGG, MISS A. M. M., Berry Head House, Brixham.
TnORPE, MRS. MARY, Lenton House, Lenton, Nottingham.
ASSOCIATES.
BONUS, ARTHUR R., Clifton College, Clifton, Bristol.
BOSTOCK, MISS E. A., Penmaen Gower, Swansea.
~ICHOLSON, SIR CHARLES, BART., D.C.L., LL.D., M.D., The Grange,
Totteridge, Herts.
SHADWELL, MISS BLANCHE, 21, Nottingham Place, London, W.
SnARPE, MRS. REGINALD, 11, Victoria Road. Kensington, London, W.
WILLSON, REV. T. B., M.A., 11, Canterbury Villas, Thornton Heath,
Croydon.
,\VOODS, MISS ALICE, 8, Bath Road, Bedford Park, Ohiswick, W. :
WOODS, ARTHUR, A.I.C.E., Mickleham, Surrey.
N.B.-Members and Associates are requested to Bend inform~tion of any change
of address to the ABBistant-Secretary, H, Dean's Yard, Westminster, S.W.
NOTICES OF WORK DONE BY COMMITTEES.
The Literary Oommittee held no formal meetings during April, but
the secretaries were employed in drawing up a Fourth Report, dealing
with a Theory of Apparitions, and intended to be read at the General
Meeting on May 28th.
A classification of about 500 narratives of impressions or apparitions
perceived coincidently with the death or danger of the agent, has also
been prepared, and will, it is hoped, prove a considerable convenience
to students of the slips to which it serves as an index. A printed copy
of this classified index will be placed in the Society's rooms in a few
weeks' time, and other copies will be sent to local branches of the
S.P.R. .
HAUNTED HOUSE COMMITTEE.
A few weeks ago the Oommittee received a report of unaccountable
footsteps heard, and an apparition seen, in a small house near Hyde
Park, which their informant was .then quitting, and which, consequently,
'Was to let, furnished. They satisfied themselves that the report was
.. Elected for services rendered to the Society.
Digitized by Google
Journaloj' Society for Psyckicallleseal'c/,. [May, 1884.
perfectly bono. fide; and decided to take the house for a short time, and
entered into possession about a week after it was vacated.
Several of the Haunted House Oommittee and other members of
the Society in tum occupied the haunted room; but they are unable to
record any evidence of abnormal phenomena.
They have, however, gained some t'xperience in a rather difficult art,
the negotiation of leases for "haunted houses."
THOUGHT·TRANSFERENCE COMMITTEE.
No experimental work has becn engaged in during the past month.
Our friends would greatly assist the work of this Oommittee if they
would kindly inform the Hon. Sec. of any successful experiments that
they may have made. The remarkable success obtained by Mr. Malcolm
Guthrie, with the two lady percipients at Liverpool, illustrates what
can be achieved by patient, persistent trials.
MESMERIC COMMITTEE.
This Oommittee has been engaged in the investigation of the reported
clairvoyance of a young man mesmerised by a Mr. Ogle, and some
interesting experiments have been made by one member of the Com-
mittee, which show conclusively that, under conditions of blindfolding
that appear from outside to be satisfactory, objects can nevertheless be
fitfully seen by natural vision. A fuller account of these experiments
will appear subsequently. As we understand that Mr Ogle has since
represented that the Oommittee were entirely satisfied with his experi-
ments, it is necessary to state, emphatically, that exactly the contrary
is the fact; inasmuch as the Oommittee obtained no satisfactory
evidence that Mr. Ogle'S subject saw otherwise than by his natural
organ of vision.
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA COMMITTEE.
The Secretary writes that the Oommittee o.re actively at work and
have had numerous sittings with different" mediums," imposing such
conditions as they deemed satisfactory. Under these circumstances the
Oommittee regret to have to record their failure to obtain phenomena
of evidential value, but at the same time they have had some encourage-
ment to persevere, and hope to be able to report more fully next
month.
OAMBRIDGE BRANOH OF THE S. P. R.
A Meeting, to establish a branch of the Society for Psychical
Research at Cambridge, was held on February 1st, in Mr. Oscar Brown-
ing's rooms, Khlg's College : Prof. Henry Sidgwick, President, in th~
chair. Mr. Browning was appointed Secretary, and Mr. Hodgson, of
St. John's Oollege, Treasurer. The meetings to be held in Mr. Brown-
ing's rooms.
February 6tll, 1884.-A Meeting was held in Mr. Browning'S
rooms, King's Oollege. A number of affiliated members were appointed,
and it was arranged that a meeting for mesmeric experiments should
be held on February 21st.
Digitized by Google
May, 1884.] Journal OJ''Society {OI' Psychical Researclt.
./I'ebruatl"lJ 21st, 1884.-A Meeting was held, at which Mr. Smith
was present as mesmerist. Experiments were made, but with no very
-definite results.
]i'ebrttar'lJ 29th, 1884.-The Branch Society met in the Secretary's
rooms, King's College. }lr. Myers read part of the proposed Report
of the Literary Committee, on apparitions of the living, which was
discussed. It was arranged that the next Meeting should be held on
March 14th, at 8.30 p.m.
MarcT, 14tT", 1884.-A Meeting was held at which some cases, col-
lected by the Literary Committee, were read and discussed. Mr.
Myers read his classification of apparitions, and it was discussed.
Afterwards a private business meeting was held, at which it was agreed
that affiliated members should be admitted to attend the meetings, at a.
subscription of five shillings a term, such members to be proposed and
to be elected by the members of the Society. The next Meeting was
fixed for Friday, April 25th.
April 25tT" 1884.-At this Meeting it was agreed that a notice of
the existence ofthe Branch Society and the application ofpersons wishing
to be affiliated members should be inserted in the CamJwidge RI1JUw.
Mr. Myers read the second part of the Report on apparitions. Mr.
Padshah gave an account of his experience as a member of the Theo-
sophic Society. It was settled that the next Meeting should be held on
Thursday, May 8th, in the Secretary's rooms.
May 8th, 1884.-Previous to the Meeting Messrs. Debenham,
Ashbee, Hodgson, Grant, Sidebottom, Goodhart, Bidder were elected
affiliated members. Colonel Olcott was present and gave a full account
~f his experiences. The next Meeting was fixed for Friday, 1\lay 23rd.
Prof. Henry Sidgwick.
-oscar Browning.
Mrs. Sidgwick.
F. W. H.l'rlyers.
Mrs. Myers.
R. Hodgson.
W. W. It. Ball.
Mrs. Adams.
.J. J. Thomson.
Ml'I. Prothero.
M. R. James.
-G. S. Dickinson.
W. H. Bennett.
A. P. Laurie.
1>. Rintoul.
A. 'Berry.
CAMBRIDGE MEMBERS.
I
W. Ba.teaon.
Miss Johoson.
J. P. POBtgate.
"I H. T. Steam.
E•.C. Perry.
, Rev. W. Cunningham.
Hon. Mrs. Lyttelton.
Dr. Cunningham•
I Prof. Macalister.
A.·Pashkoff.
D. M. Pollock.
W. E. Johnson.
W. H. Macaulay.
J. B. Mathews.
R. W. Hogg.
R. N. Goodman.
G.F. Stout.
C. S; Kenny.
AFFILIATED MEMBERS.
J. W. Graham.
Rev. J. Southward.
E. R. Debenham.
C. R. Ashbee.
G. C. Hodgson.
A. J. Grant.
A. G. Stephenson.
• Miss Bernard.
E. J. Sidebottom.
H. C. Goodhart.
G..Bidder.
Mrs. Pusingha.m.
Digitized by Google
Journal of Society.for P8ycM.cal Re8earch. [May, 1884.
SPECIMENS OF THE OLASSIFIC.A.TION OF IMPRESSIONS
AND APPARITIONS AT MOMENTS OF DEATH
OR DANGER.
I.
As has been elsewhere stated, a classified index has been prepared
to about 500 cases of impressions and apparitions, conveyed to waking
persons from agents dying or in danger, or other distress. We propose
in the Jouma! to give occasional samples of these cases, with comments
intended to indicate the general principles of arrangement adopted, and
the directions in which additional evidence is specially to be desired.
As regards the broader divisions, thecases have been so classed as
to illustrate the theory whicll regards phantasms of the living as a de-
velopment of Thought.transference. The mode of impact on the per-
cipient's mind has, therefore, been the point primarily regarded.
In a First Division have been placed the cases where the phantasm
OJO. impression was perceptible to one person only. And this division
begins with cases of mere impre8Bion, such as could not, by its very
nature, be Blmred with other percipients. Among these impressions,
again, we may take first the vaguest and least definite; the cases where
the percipient merely feels an impression that death or misfortune is
happening to some one of his acquaintance, without any identification
of the person so suffering.
It is obvious that from an evidential point of view many of these
cases will be of comparatively little value. A feeling of mere causelt',ss
depression is not rare even among quite healthy persons, and even if
'such depression is unusually strong, it is not very likely to be mentioned
at the time, or to be remembered by others, even if mentioned by the
sufferer. If the object of our collection were purely evidential we should
pass rapidly over this class of cases. But our object is not only evidential,
but tlteoretical. Taking the general fact of transference of impressions
from mind to mind as established by other evidence, we feel justified in
treating these inconclusive cases as examples of it; though the theory
of mere coincidence might have been held to explain them, had no
other vera causa been known. This other cause bein~, as we maintain,
known, it becomes important to examine carefully the whole range of its
probable effllcts. And these incipient cases in which there is a mere
mental or physical 71lalais8, with no emergence into consciousness of
any definite idea as to its causo, are likely to be both numerous, and,
if carefully studied, instructive, as indicating what may be called the
modes 0/ telepatltic invasion-the obscure channels by which one mind
makes itself gradually felt in another.
We subjoin two cases from trusted informants. The first is from.
the Hon. Mrs. Fox Powys, a member of the S.P.R. :-
Feb'l"'uary 16th, 1884.
A.bout three months ago 88 I was sitting, quietly thinking, between ~
and 7 p.m., I experienced a very curious sensation. I can only describe it as .
like a cloud of calamity gradually wrapping me round. It was almost a.
pbysical feeling, so strong was it; and I seemed to be certain, in some
inexplicable WilY, of disaster to some one of my rela.tions or friends, though I
Digitized by Google
Kay, 18/W.] JOltl'nal of Society for P8ychical Re8earck.
could not in tile least fix upon anybody in particular, and there was no one
about whom I was anxious at the time. I do not remember everexperiencing
Buch a thing before. I should say it lasted about half-an·hour. This
happened on a Saturday, and on Monday I got a letter from my sister,
written on the Saturday evening to go by the post which leaves at 7 p.m., in
which she told me slle had received a telegram, an hour or 80 ago, informing
her of the dangerous illness of her brother-in-law, at which she was greatly
upset. This appeared to be a very probable explanation of my extraordinary
p1'e8tlutiment, and I wrote and told her all about it at once.
A. C. Powys.
Here is a case where the impression was absolutely vague, and where
the agent, from whose state of mind the, impression is supposed to have
originated, was not dying or in danger, but merely in mental distress.
The value of this case largely depends on the uniquenes8 of the ex-
perience in the percipient's history. If any of our readers believe
themselves to have had similar experiences, it is much to be desired that
they would henceforth set such experiences down in writing as soon as
they occur, and mention them to others before it is known whether any
calamity bas happened or not. For,we repeat, itis likely enough that fits
of depression of this kind are often real telepatltic event8,although nothing
but a very careful comparative estimate of their so-called causeles8 in-
vasions (invasions, that is, dependent on some obscure internal cause)
can justify us in admitting au external cause for them in the case of
any given percipient.
The next case which we shall cite is one where the agent is dying,
though the chillness and misery which the percipient experienced do not
seem to have distinctly suggested her sister's death.
From Miss Agnes M. A. S., Whepstead Rectory, Bury St. Edmunds.
In May, 1871, I was away from home for a change, leaving a sick sister
behind, who had been ill for many months from mesenteric decline. I was
to go to a ball at Willis' Rooms on May 11th, and left some friends in Ken-
sington to stay with an old schoolfellow at Denmark Hill I heard that my
sister was worse, but concluded it was one of the usuru spasmodic
attacks of sickness that accompany the disease-how could I ever have been
110 blind ! It was a Thursday; my new dress bad come, and dinner time
came-a large family circle, and I the only stranger, as I had never stayed
in the house before. I could hardly swallow my dinner, and felt a chillness
all over me. When the time came to dress I went upstairs and slowly began.
As I bent down to pick my dress up I stopped. I felt an unleen presence,
and a terrible chillneu, which, even as I write, returns only too vividly. I
rang the bell. When the servant came, I could only say faintly, "Ask Miss
Emily to come til me." When my friend came, I could explain nothing; I
merely said I could not go to the ball. I have often wondered how I looked
at the time, for I know how I felt, even to my lips. The next morning came
the news that my silter had died on the previous morning, longing and
calling for me to the last.
In another letter Miss S. says :-
I looked upon my chillness and mental sensation which stopped my going
to the ball as a most merciful warning.
Mias Druce, the friend with whose family Miss iii. was staying, has
not a very clear recollection of the circumstances, but says :-
Our impression is that Miss S. did not go to the ball; personaUy, ,
I 'cannot quite remember whether she actually went or not. Next,
Digitized by Google
/
56 Journal of Society for PS!lchical Research. [May, 1884.
mQrning, the news of her sister's death l'f'.ached her through a letter enclosed
tome.
The coincidencc of time here seems not quite close. It is possible
that a telepathic invasion of this kind may sometimes need a consider-
able time to make itself thus felt throughout the whole organism.
There seems to have been a growing distress, resembling the onset of a
fever or some acute disease.
But it is not our intention here to do more than throw out hints
whi<lh (as we have already said) may indicate to our readers the points
to be noted, and the directions in which fresh evidence will be especially
welcomed. We should be glad u{deed if each of these brief notices
were to elicit some additional cases of a cognate kind.
IDbitua~.
With deep regret we have to announce the death, on May
· 12th, at the age of 67, of an eminent scientific member, Dr. R.
Angus Smith, F.R.S. This is not the place to speak of Dr.
· Angus Smith's high scientific distinction, nor of those profound
and classical investigations into the chemistry of the air and
water of large towns upon which largely were based the Acts of
Parliament that he was called upon to administet'. As Chief
Inspector under the Noxious Vapours (Alkali) Acts and the
Rivers Pollution Prevention Act, Dr. Angus Smith did an im-
mense amount of valuable public work, his reports to the Local
Government Board being models of painstaking research and
cautious generalisation. Unlike. most specialists, Dr. Angus
Smith was a man of large sympathies and widc culture. Olassi-
cal literature and archreology were his pastimes; his knowledge of
Scotch and Irish archreology and the dreary wastes of early
, Irish literature was, we believe, singularly extensive. But, per-
haps, his keenest interest was centred in psychological investigll-
tiona, and it is no secret that he held the attitude taken by science
towards Mesmerism and Spiritualism to be utterly unphilosophical
· and unfair. Hence he welcomed the foundation of our Society,
and often spoke of the quite supreme importance of the results the
Society had already achieved. His valuable library, containing
many rare psychological works, will, we hope, not be scattered,
nor his unpublished MSS. be overlooked. To those who had the
privilege of his friendship his name will be ever dear from the
· large and loving heart he possessed. Combined with a philosophic
breadth of view, his conversation was ever enjoyable from tbe
quaint Scotch humour which played through all he said. It is,
· however, impossible to oonvey the sweet charm of his gentle
spirit, which sought and revealed the best side of each one's
,nature, and invariably led him to try to understand, and, if
possible, justify those who differed from him.-W. F. B.
Digitized by Google
Ha:r,l884.] Journal 01 800ietvfor P'1lc"ical Baearc".
REPORT ON THE ALLEGED MANIFESTATIONS
AT ARUNDEL, SUSSEX.
By MAJOR G. ;t. LB M, TAYLOR.
JWyal Military College, Farnborough Station, Hanta.
57
A.ccom~nied by Major King, R.M.A., I arrived at Arundel on
Saturday, February 22nd, to inquire into the ciFcumstances attending
the alleged manifestations in connection with the girl Clark.
We first visited Mr. Hubbert, F.R.O.S., the medical man who had
been ~lled in to see the girl when the affair commenoed; he very kindly
told us what took place, his statement being in effect as followl ;-
He was called in about 10.30 on the night of February lith to see
the girl Clark, who was said to be "bewitched " ; he found the houae.
hold in great consternation, and persuaded that a neighbour had "be.
witched " her. He asked what the symptoms were, and was told that
., Icratchinga" took place "all about the bed " on which the girl was,
that she did not make them, and that they were supernatural; he was
told to listen, and shortly he heard a noise in the bedroom above as if
made by soratching the mattress with the nails of the hand. On
going upstairs he found the girl in bed and asked her "How she
did it 1" or " Why she did it , " but she said she had nothing
to do with it. While he was in the room nothing took place,
but he was told that if he left the room the noise would
probably recommence. He did 80; and again the scratchinga
were hea,rd. He went bac)!: into the room with the girl alone, and
having taken hold of her hands with one of his he scratched the
m$ttress with the other. The noise was at once recognised by the
family outside the door as the same previously heard. The doctor now
tied the girl's hands in such a way as to prevent the use of the nails, and
left the room. The noise was soon repeated, but was now more like
rubbiIlg than scratching. In fact, the sound seemed muftled. Again
he tied the girl's hands more securely, and balanced a woollen cuff on
them, outside the bed clothes. Now no noise was heard for some time
and on re-enteringthe room the cuft'was found unmoved. The doctor was
satisfied that the noises were made by the girl herself. He then left
and has had nothing more to do with the affair.
We next went to Clark's house, and found that, unfortunately, the
girl's father was away, and the girl herself had been sent to Brighton.
We saw, however, the girl's mother and her father's mother.
The mother is a large, flabby, sallow woman of about 4:0, with a
Digitized by Google
58
narrow forehead and rather oblique eyebrows. She did not seem in good.
health, aDd: Wall certainly nerveliS and frightel1ed at tb.e wh()le affair.
'Mr. Hubbert described her aa hystericaL .The grandmother is an old
woman, who was not at all frightened at what had taken place, but
rather liked talking about it.
The impression we received as to the evidence of these women was
that they were perfectly honest witnesses, believing everything they
told us; the mother being unwilling to speak of them at all and par-
ticularly careful not to speak to anything which had not come within
her own knowledge. The grandmother, though equally honest, had evi-
dently told the story so often that she described things whioh, on her
own showing, she could not have seen.
We gathered that the "manifestations"began on Friday evening,
the 8th of February, and the girl was sent away on Tuesday or W00-
neadey, the 19th or 20th, and that nothing took place betWleen Tueaday,
the 12th, and Monday, the 18th, on which day the girl is said te have
seen an apparition, which determined her people to send her to Brighton.
Our two witnesses were able to speak diJ:ectly to oaly BOme of the
alleged manifestations, the evidence for the others resting on the
testimony of the girl, her father, the girl's maternal grandmother, and
a neighbour. The manifeatla.tioJIUI appear to have begun spontaneously;
but afterwards to have been in a great measure sought by the father
to teat their reality. We. ascertained pretty well in what order the
different things happened, but could not quite make it clear on
which days they occurred.
I will give first the substance of the statements of the two
women we saw, as far as they speak mm their own knowledge; and
then the remainder of the story as gathered from the graBdmether, but
the direcll evidence for which could not be obtained.
The mother states that the girl is 13, but looks older; is a good,
quiet girl, about whose honesty in the present matter she has.no doubt.
(Major King saw the girl's photograph; it was of a girl with a sharp and
rather shrewd face.) That on Friday night, a minute or two after
getting into bed with her two girls (her husband being away at work),
she heard a scratching noise on the mattress of the bed. She asked the
girls if they were making it. They said, "No," and seemed frightened.
She held the girl's hands and yet the noise continued. She got out of
bed, thinking it might be rats, lit a candle, searched the room, and
remade the bed. When they went to bed again the noise recommenced.
She then went into the back room, but the noise continued on theother
bed. She also states that the first bed heaved up, and, that when they
went into the second room, the bed and everything in the room shook.
She got so frightened that she sent for the doctor.
Digitized by Google
May.18i6.]
Though the mother sat by and ~quiesced in all her mother·in-Iaw
subsequently related, she said nothing more than the:aoove came under
her speciallrnowledge, except the evident diatreq of her daughter on
other occallions.
The grandmother corroborated what the mo\her stated about the
girl's goodDess and honesty, and proceedAd to say that when the father
returned on Saturday night (1) some attempts were made at an investi-
gation, in the course of which the girl was sent upstairs into the room
in which the noises were first observed," to see what would happen."
She was followed by her two grandmothers (the maternal grandmother,
who lived in another village,having been sent for previously). The girl
stood at A (see plan), in full view of the old women, who were at the
head of the stairs, when in a minute three articles fell to the ground
at the other end of the room at B and C, a clock from off
the chest of drawers, and two ornaments from the chimney piece, all
at the same time. The girl rushed back to the stairs, .and the two old
women, going into the room. found the things on the floor, but not
broken; there was a mat or carpet where they fell. They replaced the
things, the clock onita baok far back on the drawers. They again fell
under similar circumstances (1); the girl described them to have turned .
over and over till they reached the floor. One of the things that fell
was a small bell-shaped shade over a match stand.
After the above incident (on Sunday, I think), the girl was lent
Q'---O ~ III
xl IX~
Q
~
-
-d
-d "
~
'"
III
<
1
.: x
~ '"
~
..c
.;;; "0
0
- S
~ 0
'0
x "
<e
C5
..
PLAN OF CLARK'S IIOUSE.-18~ ~'LOOR PLAX.
Digitized by Coogle
60 Journal qf 8ociety/or P81Jchicallle8earck. [May,l8S4.
~.
f/
.ol
d::
~O EI
.~ I
.... .~-d
&=5 .
.~:,,'O\e.
los A,i'
~ rn
~
x
~
~
x
~
Table.
E
I I
.~
----3--- r--
rI.l
'--
Coalbole.
D
-
•
-
-
l'LAN OF CLA.RK'S HOUSE.-GROUND PLAN.
Digitized by Google
May, 188t.] Journal qf Soc-lei!! for Psychical Re8earcl,. 61
to her grandmother's house, not far off, "to see if anything would
happen in a new place." The grandmothl'r says that, when there and
in view, things jumped up and fell down which were Gut of the girl's
ra,.,ch. I could not get a clear statement about it, but got the old
woman to acknowledge that she saw nothing fall.
Later, again, the grandmother declares that when going upstairs in
her son's house, with the girl in front of her, a dark cloud seemed to
meet them and obscure the light of the candle till she lost sight of the
child, who shrank back to her and said she felt it allover her; the
cloud soon passed away.
.As for the rest of the story, it appears that the father sent the girl
into the scullery, and watched through the door a tray of potatoes ,and
an iron pot fall; they werc, however, scarcely beyond the girl's reach.
This experiment appears to have been repeated, for on another occasion
a neighbour, looking through the door, said he saw a shadowy hand
stretched out from the girl to the things to upset them. On another
occasion the girl, having been sent across the road to the baker's,
returned with the story that immediately she entered the shop two chairs
fell over of themselves, but no one else saw them fall.
Again, the girl is said to have been alone with her maternal grand-
mother (whom we did not see) in the lower front room, and being told
to get some coal, the child opened the door at D. .At this moment the
grandmother and girl heard three violent knocks on table E. The girl
got frightened, and the grandmother went with her to get the coal from
under the stairs. Again three knocks were heard on the stairs.
After this it seems the girl never left her mother's side for a week,
and nothing took place. At the end of that time her mother, thinking
that perhaps it was allover, sent the girl upstairs to get a dress from
the back bedroom. On entering the room the child screamed, and on
her return stated to her mother that she had seen at F a figure in &
white dress, with fingers very white and long, bald head, and white
eyes and feet, which, when she screamed, receded and disappeared into
.$he wall behind it. '
The order in which the manifestations are said to have followed one
another is as follows :-
ORDER 0:1' lIANIFEsTATIONIl. OBSERVED B'l1.
1. Scratchings ............ Mother, Sister, and Doctor
2. Ditto ..................... Mother, Sister, and Paternal Grandmother
3. Things falling ......... Pa.ternal Grandmother and Maternal Grandmother
4. Ditto, ditto............ Paternal Grandmother
5. Ditto, ditto ............ Father and Neighbour
6. Knocks .................. Maternal Grandmother
7. ,Darkening of candle.. Paternal Grandmother
8. Apparition............... Child
Digitized by Google
62 JOfernal qf SocietyluI' PS]lcMcal Research. [Mar,l88f.
OBSBRVATIONS.
Nos. 1 and 2.-The doctor being quite unaffected by any feeling of
excitement or fear, which was not the case with the family, was the
best judge of the cause of these manifestations. He was convinced tha.t
they were caused by the child herself.
Nos. a and 4.-If the evidence of the paternal grandmother could
be relied on these could not, in my opinion, be accounted for by any
physical cause, as the clock and onlaments fell simultaneously and were
9ft. from the girl, who, having been sent by her father without warning
(as I understood) to the room above stairs, had no opportunity of
making any arrangements fo.. trickery.
No. 5.-In tllese manifestations the girl might not ha\'e been more
than 4ft. from the things which fell, and the hole in the door (as
tested by me) is so small that little can be ~n through it, and that
little in a shadowy way.
No. 6.-The girl standing where she did when the knocks "on the
table" were heard, was within reach of the door of the coal-hole, knocks
on which (as ascertained by Major King) sounded hollow; as if on a.
tabl~, and from their sound it would not be possible to tell whence
they came. When immediately afterwards, the girl was in the coal-
hole, the knocks on the stain sounded from a place within her reach.
No. 7.-The stairs are so narrow tllat the girl must ha.ve been in
front of her grandmother and above her; if she had shaded the candle
with her hand it might not have been observed by the old woman, and
the stated effect might have been easily produced on the half-frightened
grandmother.
No. S.-The fright of the girl on seeing the appearance must have
been well feigned to deceive her mother, but the girl herself was in.
such a condition of nervousness as to make it most probable that she
was frightened at a shadow only.
CONCLUSIONS.
Major King and myself came to the following conclusions :-
I.-The scratchings were perhaps done by the child at first by
accident, and pcrsisted in, when the effect was se"n, for fun.
2.-That tho grandmother possibly did not actually keep the girl in
sight when the things fell in the bedroom; having perhaps turned round
to speak to the mother at the bottom of the stairs.
a.-That the knocks were most likely produced by the child, who
at this time was getting rather frightened at her own " manifestations."
4.-That the father and Mr. M., the neighbour, could not have
watched the girl through the scullery door, and that Mr. M., fr9m his
reference to a spirit-hand, suggested a spiritual appearance to the girl.
5.-The darkening of the candle might have been done by the child
accidentally, and frightened her as well as her grandmother.
6.-That the "spirit" was purely SUbjective.
7.-That on the whole it is most likely that the affair was begun
in fun, continued in fraud, and closed in fright.
Digitized by Google
Kay, 1884.] Jom-nal of Socieill for Psychical Bcsearcll. 63
INVOLUNTARY GUIDANOE WITHOUT OONTAOT.
The President of tbe Society has lately received an interesting
letter from Mr. A. E. Outerbridge, jun., of Philadelphia, U.S.A.,
asking for further information as to our Thought-transference experi-
ments, and pointing out tha.t absence of contact by no means excludes.
involuntary guidance on the part of the operator. Accompanying his.
letter, Mr. Outerbridge sends a record of some experiments which he-
has made in this direction, and which were communicated to the
late Dr. Beard, and by him published in the II American Popular-
Science Monthly," for July, 1877.
These experiments are of sufficient interest to justify a lengthy
quotation. Mr. Outerbridge writes:-
" The only condition I require of the 8ubject is, that 11e shall follow me at.
a distance of about three or four feet, as I grope my way apparently at random.
keeping his mind fixed upon the object. 1 am able to tell, by closeattention,
when he follows me readily, and when reluctantly; in this way I cautiously
map out the direction in which he tends to follow me most readily. When
I approach the vicinity of the object thought of, he shows no inclination tOo
move in anyone direction. There is, of course, a certain element of un-
certainty in the finding of a small object under these circumstances, but the-
proportion of fa.ilures is astonishingly small. I reached ilus result by a
auccession of experiments, first through a rigid rod, then through a wire, then
a stretched string, then a string with a loop. I then worked without contact,.
"ot· blindfolded. I would walk backward, holding out my right forefinger,
and directing the 'subject' to hold his right forefinger, at a distance of six
inches (this would convey to most people the impression of two terminal poles.
of a battery or electrical machine), and he would often have an imaginary
pricking, as of sparks at the finger-tip. I would then proceed around the
room, and when moving in the right direction the hiatus would be rapidly
closed between the two fingers.
" I can almost invariably distinguish an intentional or accidental indica-
tion from an involuntary one, and I do not find that keeping the 'arm per-
fectly stiff' interferes very seriously. The indications are not confined to.
muscular contractions or relaxations of the arm, but it is a sympathetic move-
ment of the whole body.
" It is a curious fact that subjects who naturally work well will be very .
alightlv influenced by the explanation of the apparent mystery. You may assure
them that every correct movement you make is onlya transL'ttion of their own,
and they will declal"e positively that they are trying to move in the opposite·
direction, and, in fact, they often do hold back with their feet, while giving
the most positive indications with their arms.
"I have found that a large majority of well-educated people have an
innate bias for mysteries, and prefer to refer these ' phenomena.' to animal
magnetism, aurss, psychic or odic force, or any incomprel1ensible cause,
rather than to the rational explanation of unconscious movement. Some time
since, I had a curiousillustration of this fact, and at the same timean admirable-
proof of the physical theory (if any were required), in an experiment
suggested by a gentleman of this city. I had concluded:a successful exhibition
at an evening company, and described the precise method by which the-
experiments had been performed. This gentleman said to me, privately, that.
he could .suggest an experiment which, if succe'Jsful, would disprove my
Digitized by Google
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Rcsearclt. [May, 1884.
theory of muscular 01' physical movement. I retired from the room, and
was brought ill blindfolded. Meanwhile he had requested a very good subject
with whom I had done a number of complicated things to hide an article. The
gentleman then took 'the towel from my head and blindfolded the 'subject'-
turned rum rapidly round several times, and told him to think of the object.
He said, ' Now you will find it by mental communication only.' I started oft"
.rapidly, but, of course, received no indications. I then purposely touched his
hand to the mantel.piece in the back·parlour. Instantly he unconsciously
-calculated the position of the hidden article and directed (not led, forI always
go in advance of the' subject ') me toward the front·room ; then he was lost,
until I again touched his hand to some object, when I received a fresh indica-
tion. In this way I finally found a 1O·cent note, rolled into a little ball, and
.attached to the lower knot of a cord running through the handle of a small
feather-duster, which was hanging from the bell·handle on the wall I did
not, however, immediately produce it, as I wished to experiment further. I
led the' subject' oil· to another part of the room. and he immediately brought
-me back to the duster. Again I led him away to the same place, and turned
him round so as to confuse him. All indications ceased, even when I held
,his hand within an inch of the duster.
"In regard to finding small objects, I have no difficultyin picking out any
letter on a page of a book or newspaper, and I frequently spell out abstract
>thoughts or names IIf people, place!', &c., thought of, in this way: I hold a
.sharp·pointed stick or pen.handle in my left hand, pointing downward, with
the same hand grasping the left hand of the' subject.' I thus pick out letters
-on the page which spell the thought in the mind of the' subject.'
" The power of perception of theee minute indications is capable of being
.developed to an astonishing degree, and I have often been amazed at the
-curious effects produced, a few of which I have indicated to you."
If our readers will turn to our first report on Thought-transference,
in Part I. of the Proceedings, p. 16, they will find Dr. Beard's paper
on the "Physiology of Mind Reading" referred to, and on p. 18,
the experiments made by Mr. Outerbridge are classed under the head-
Ing, "II. Where actions are performed witlwnt contact with tlte person.
willing," and upon this the following remarks are made: "Here the
involuntary guidance by the eyes of the rest of the party, or other
indications of an almost imperceptible character, are swiftly and pro-
bably unconsciously interpreted by the guesser and lead him hesitatingly
to do what is being willed. Even blindfolding the subject merely
removes one vista of error. The doubtful interpretation of the best;
results obtained in this group, has compelled us to attach comparatively
little importance to them." We then recite our experiments where the
word or figures thought of were named by the percipient, and on
p. 23 show that any explanation hitherto given is inapplicable to the
lI"esults obtained and hence conclude" that we have here very strong
-evidence in favour of a class of phenomena entirely new to science."
Our readers are familiar with the mass of evidence that has since then
;been set before them, and as the details of all the experiments are
'faithfully published, the candid inquirer is now in a position to decide
how far we have established the existence of a. class of phenomena.
ihitherto unrecogniaed by science.
May. 1884.] J01l1'11al ofSociet!llot' PS!lc/n'cal Rl'sl'rt1·cn. 65
OHANCE-GUESSING VERSUS THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
One of our members having written to us to the effect that he con-
ceived it possible mere chance coincidence might possibly have
accounted for the success in naming the cards, described in our earlier
reports on Thought-transference, we wrote to him, suggesting that he
should put his doubt to the test of experiment; at the same time-
pointing out that our experiments were not confined to a few trials, but
extended over numerous days and embraced, altogether, some 50()
experiments with playing cards, numbers of two figures, &c. In reply.
our correspondent writes as follows :-
"Wemyss Bay, N.B.
"I was all wrongabout the card guessing chances, as the followmg experi-
ment at random guessing will show. In the first 40 t.rials two were right.
Then in 190 trials none were right; the 191at was right. Then 170 and nune
right; the 17lst was right. 'rhen lOS and none rigbt. Altogether, four
right in 510guesses, and 17 wrong only by a spot."
The same correspondent, writing again, says :-
" I have made 1,000 more trials with guessing cards in a room by my-
self,thecards being re-shuffied each time, and found this time that myresults
were a near approximation to the theoretical one correct gUesB in 52 trialB.
Thua, in the laBt 520 trials I had 11 right and 17 one spot too lligh or too low.
The correct gueBses were Bepsrated by wide intervals, except in one case
when two were right in four trials, followed by a long break, with none
right. This convinces me thai the results obtained from the Misses Creery
are utterly inexplicable on any theory of chance coincidence."
ALLEGED CURES OF ANlESTHESIA BY MAGNETISM.
We have received from Dr. Dreschfeld, the Professor of Pathology
at Owens College, a report of an interesting case, which came under
his own observation, of the cure of hysterical anmsthesia apparently by
the application of a powerful electro-magnet'" to the part affected.
The case was published in the EritisT, Medical Journal for August 7th.
1880, and is briefly as follows:-
The patient, Ann H., aged 43, was admitted to the Infirmary on
November 29th, and suffered from loss of musc~lar power and greatly
impaired tactile sensibility, "the sense of .pain being completely
aboli~ed over the whole body except the tips of the fingers; pric~s
made with a needle did not bleed except at the finger tips." Heat and
. cold. could only. be felt on the forehead and arms; the mucous
membranes were sensible to touch but not to pain. The patient also
• We may perhapa be allowed to explain to those of our readers unfamilia.r
with scienti1l.o instruments, that an electro-magnet is simplya bar of iron usually
bent into a U shape, and strongly magnetised by the passage of an electric
current sent round coils of wire which enoirole the iron. Compound words in
BCientifio terminology have the cause named before the effect; here the causo
is electrioiliY, the.effect magnetism of the iron.
Digitized by Google
Jolt/"Jutl'if Sociely for PSI/chienl ResMl'ch. [ \lay, 1884.
bad contracted vision in both eyes, was colour blind in her left eye, and
was deaf in both cars. She had scarcely any sense of smell and taste
was entirely absent. Three other physicians besides Dr. Dreschfeld
-confirmed these observations.
" The first series of experiments consisted in the application of different
metals to the anres~hetic skin, with the well known results. Gold and silver
wer~ found active; copper and iron inactive. It was interesting to observe
that, with the re~urn of sensibility over tho whole body after the applica-
tion of gold, the left achromatopsic eye became normal, while the right eye
became colour-blind. This was the only transfer observed. Internally,
the patient was treated with chloride of gold (five minims).
"On Decembcr 4th, the electro-magnet was used for the first time. Ono
pole was applied to the outer side of the right le~. The apparatus was so
.arranged that. the current could be made and broken wi~hout the patient
being made aware of it. Careful examination of the patient, previous to the
application of the electro-magnet,showed that the anwsthesia was as perfect as
Qn the first day; the achromatopsia, however, had diRRppeared, and the
muscular power had a little increased. Five minutes after the application
of the elegtro-magnet, the sensibility was returning on the inner side of the
right leg; in ten minutes, it had extended considerably; and, after twenty-
five minutes, the whole of the right and left side, with the exception of the
head, was acutely sensitive to the touch, except the upper part of the face
and the:whole of the scalp. The points pricked (except one in anresthetic
8calp) bled now freely. The special .ense organs underwent no change
during the passage of the current. Soon after the removal of the electro-
magnet, the anresthesia returned.
" On December 6th, the electro-magnet was again applied,with no current
passing. For more than one hour, there was no effect. After the electro-
magnet had remained near the anresthetic leg for two hours, there was slight,
but very perceptible, return of sensibility on the outer side of the leg. This
unexpected result was afterwards easily explained, as it was found that the
electro·magnet had been used for a considerable length of time in the
physical laboratory of Owens College, and the iron had retained enough
magnetism to magnetise a needle, even if no current passed; and thus the
8imple application of the magnet, when not in contact with the battery, suffi-
ced to bring back the sensibility,though it did so very slowly, and only after
being applied for a long time.
" The magnetic experiments were now continued almost daily for an hour,
and the patient at the same time began markedly to improve, so that, after
a few days, the sensibility had returned, and remained permanently in both
upper and lower extremities and trunk. The scalp was still anresthetic, and
the special sense-organs (excepting the achromatopsia) were in the same
atate as on admission.
"On December 15th,the electro-magnet was applied to the scalp with very
decided effect, 80 that, fifteen minutes after the application, the whole skin
of the head became sensitive, and the points touched bled freely. The
special senses also underwent improvement during the applicatior.. The
improvement continued-though the sensibility was somewhat diminished-
even after the removal of the electro·magnet, which was only oncemore
applied (on December17th) and again to the head.
"The patient now rapidly improved, and was well enough to be discharged
on December 24th. She found herself well enough to follow her work ; her
mUBCu]arpower had incre8l!ed ; the gensibiIity had returned over the whole
of the body ; the field of vision had improved; limell and taste had become
normal; and the hearing on the left side was much better. She continued
MlI.y,l884.] JOItmal qf Society for Psucltical Research. 67
~~~
to take the chloride of gold intenlally during the whole of her stay in tIle
11OSpitai, and persisted with its use some time after her discharge. 1 have
aeen the patient repeatedly since, and she bas remained perfectly well."
Dr. Dreschfeld gives two other cases, that also came under his own
observation, wherein the application of an electro-magnet effected a
similarcure. One was that of a labourer (Matthew C., aged 25,) suffering
from frequent epileptic fits, so that he had to give up his work. He was
examined on February 6th, and iodide of potassium administered; on
February 13th he was no better; on February 20th somewhat better;
but now numbness had seized his right side, and he was on that side
insensible to touch or pain. In the presence of Dr. Wilkinson and
others the electro-magnet ,,:as applied to the right forearm. .. Fifteen
minutes after the application the whole of the anresthetic side became
normally sensitive." On February 24th, he Wil.l seen again, and had
had no return of the anresthesia; the epileptic attacks now occurred
rarely. On February 27th, the epileptic attacks ceased, and he had had
no recurrence up to March 12th, when he was last seen; he was then.
enjoying normal sensibility, though complaining of occasional vertigo.
The other case was that of a joiner (A.H.) suffering from
hemianresthesia, complicated with mental disorders. Here too, the
electro-magnet appeared to cause a return of sensibility, but owing to
an organic lesion in the brain the patient did not recover. Dr.Dreschfeld
remarks:-
" The immediate effect of the electro-magnet in all three cases was very
striking, but the method of application in the first case was so conducted that;
there could be no deception on the part of the patient."
We should beveryglad toreceiveanyfurther information in this direc-
tion from any of our medical friends, or any evidence pointing to
the existence of a special" magnetic sense." It is obvious that extreme
care is needed in conducting experiments of this nature, to avoid
confounding effects due to the imagination with the specific action
that appears to be exerted by magnetism.
Digitized by Google
68 Journal'!f Sociel!1 for P8!1chical Re8eal·cl,. [May,I8SJ.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY OATALOGUE.
The followi.ng additions have been made since last m.onth.
BUSH (Rev. George. M.A.) Reasons for Embracing the Doctrines and
Diaclosures of Emanuel Swedenborg .....•.••......•.•..•..••••Londorl, N.D. iF-
CLOWES (Rev. John, M.A.) Illustrations of the Holy Word •••London, 1875iF-
EVENING (The) AND THE MORNING. A Narrative, 5th edit....London, 1883iF-
GILES (Rev. Chauncey) The Spiritual World and our Children there
Inndon, 1883iF-
--- The Incarnation, Atonementand Mediation of the Lord Jesus
Christ ..................................................................Ltn&don, 1883*
HYDE (Rev. John) Emanuel Swedenborg. An Outline .......Loodon, 1883i!-
MONNIN (The Abbe Alfred) Lifo of the Cure d'ArB. From the French
London, N.D.
NOBLE (Rev. Samuel) An Appeal on Behalf of SlVedenborg and his
Writings ...............................................................London, 1881if.
PAlIIPHLErs, English, for Vol. III.-
Swecienborg, Emanuel, Intercoursebetween the Souland Body, London, 186i*
SPILLING (James) Things New and Old.............................. London, 1883*
SWEDBNBORG (Emanuel)-
Arcana Crelestia, 12 vol.................................................Lo71d_, 1863-1881*
" ,,(Index to) ................................................London, 1880*
The New Jerusalem and its Heavenly Doctrine ......................Lonclon, l.868.
Heaven and Hell ................................................................London, 181ZS*
The Earths in the Universe ................................................Lo71don, 1875*
The Last Judgment ............................................................Lo71don, 1815*
Conjugial Love ............................................................... ...London, 1816*
The Four Primary Doctrines of the New Church......'" ............London, 1816*
Divine Providence................................................................London, 1879*
The Apocalypse Revealed ..................................................London, 1882*
Divine Love and Wisdom ....................................................London, 1883*
The True Christian Religion ................................................London, 1883*
The White Horse ............................................................. London, 1871*
Brief Exposition olthe Doctrine of the New Church...............London, 1818*
The Future Life ................................................................London, 1883*
The Heavenly Doctrine and Charity .....................................London, 1888*
SWI1!'T (Edmund, junr.) Manual of New Church Doctrines,3rd edit.
London, 1882if.
U.S.E. (Emanuel Swedenborg) Tho Spiritual Columbus, Phonetic edit.
. London, 1878*
RIEGER (Dr. Conrad) Dor Hypnotismus.................................Jena, 1884
SPLITTGERBER (Franz) Tod, Fortlebon und Auferstehung.........Halle, 1879
The books maTlced thus * have been p1'esented to the Library by the
Stoedenbol'g Society.
Arrangements have been ma.de by which Associates temporarily in London,
or who Dlay otherwise wish to borrow books from the Library for a short
time, can do so on the following terms ;-
For One Month, 58. For Three Months, lOs.
Digitized by Google
