{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bruce_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Bruce H NDE 112","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bruce H NDE 112  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Bruce H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						537  Bruce H NDE  112  					  				  			      			</section>    			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I fell to the floor in our bottom stairs bathroom. I remember being in a very dark place, pitch black. I was not afraid. I was just amazed by how dark this place was. I then felt the presence of other beings. I never saw their faces, however. I somehow knew that my grandmother and aunt where there, plus others I had no feeling about. They were behind me and kept telling me to go with them. I even felt them touching my shoulder from behind trying to get me to go with them. They insisted that I go with them. I became angry and told them I wasn't ready. I even yelled at them to let me go. I felt bad, ashamed, because I thought I had hurt their feelings. They seemed very sad.


The next thing I knew was my wife was near me. She was crying. I remember telling her that I needed her to touch my face with her skin. I told her that if she didn't do that, I was probably going to die. I knew this with every fiber of my being.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    February 5, 2001

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness  Stroke   StrokeI suffered an Ischemic stroke. I lost half my cerebellum.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I was in a very dark place, as I think back now, it seemed at the time to be a very large place, just totally dark. I was being asked to go in a certain direction, but I refused.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I felt the presence of other beings. I never really saw them, I felt them. [For further info, see narrative].

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See narrative.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      See narrative.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   none

What is your religion now?      Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I no longer think long-term.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   Everything was dark, but not threatening. I felt presence of other entities.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: I am not afraid of death, maybe I never was. The worst was the anger I felt about not going with those beings.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Not sure.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bruce_h_nde.html