{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brooks_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Brooks B NDE 20194","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brooks B NDE 20194  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brooks B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						276  Brooks B NDE  20194  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

While on vacation at my aunt's house, my aunt, her two children and I went to a neighbor's home to swim. The women were visiting in lounge chairs at poolside, while we three children were playing in the pool. I had just learned how to swim a little and when a plastic ball was thrown into the deep end of the pool, I thought I could retrieve it and swam into the deep end.


Suddenly, I was totally out of strength, couldn't swim another stroke, and panicked. I could not see how close I was to the edge of the pool because of the water in my eyes, nor could I scream for help. I recall consciously raising my hand over my head, hoping someone would see me, which, in fact, did happen eventually. However, before I was pulled out of the pool, I had clarity about the trouble I was in and suddenly in my mind's eye; I saw headlines from a very old newspaper with a story about my drowning. Then I saw a scene that might have been set at, or before, the turn of the century. A group of people in long black dresses and funeral attire were carrying my casket up a hill and across a rather level, weeded area for burial. I knew it was my body in the casket. My mother and father were part of the group of 15 or 20 people walking with the casket. I began to cry because I could see their grief and sadness and I felt sorry for them.


It was at that point that I was pulled from the water. I must have lost consciousness for at least a few minutes, but came to with no medical intervention, only frightened people standing over me.


I told my story immediately, but I was confused about it. I still have some confusion about it, though I have often wondered if that experience evoked a memory of a drowning and burial in a previous life. I can find no other explanation as to why I would have been thrust into that pioneer type setting when I was in the midst of drowning in this century. I do believe the experience left the door open for me to later embrace the idea of reincarnation or eternal life in some form. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1951

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Near drowning in private swimming pool. Pulled out by neighbor.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Semi-conscious perhaps. I was aware of the trouble I was in, but was not totally conscious when I was pulled out of the pool.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Friends and family at my funeral.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      First fear, then quickly curiosity about unfolding events on the screen and, finally, grief. Sadness and tears because I was dying and knew my parents would be sad.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Baptist

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Non-religious, strong spiritual beliefs

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     It opened my mind to different possibilities of the afterlife.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: I learned that dying is easy. At least, drowning is easy. The worst: not understanding the puzzle of it; why I was thrust back into another era?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   During a spontaneous OBE many years later, I experienced the same separation of body and experience.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brooks_b_nde.html