{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brigitte_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Brigitte Possible NDE 7988","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brigitte Possible NDE 7988  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brigitte Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4143 Brigitte Possible NDE 7988  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was working at night, was not used to have dinner. As it was the anniversary of my brother I went for dinner to my mother's place, was eating well and had fun. An evening not as usual, special, as viewed later on. After this, after dinner I went to pick up a workmate, there was a bit snow falling, that was beautiful and magic. At work as usual, while working, I'm joking with the employees; I'm working at a hospital and clean the house, but I love my job and have fun with everybody. But we are very busy, it's 5:00 in the morning, exhausted of the night, as we had been reduced, not enough people, and a colleague has to leave. I have still two rooms to clean, one far away, even isolated and the other one is the room where patients are waiting to see the doctor. I'm starting with this one, I'm entering it and it is as if the light went off.

This was told me afterwards, as I don't remember; they found me on the floor spread out in the form of a star, and I had emptied myself. A nurse touched me and it was there that I had my last breath. They massaged me, shocked me, and I got a slight pulse, I was intubated, was in catheterization laboratory, they wanted to unblock me, but I had another attack. They stopped, I had 4 blocked arteries, got unblocked two of them. They didn't think that I would be coming back, on the paper the diagnose was sudden death and the main diagnose sudden death, I went to intensive care, was in a coma for 9 days and I came back and show nothing on my heart, nothing shows of that night.

I saw myself in an igloo, in a pyramid and saw deceased people, and today I'm here and am writing to you; after this I went to intensive care services to ask them why this igloo and pyramid. They told me that maybe when they put a cover on me to preserve my organs and / or when they started to warm up my body again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  25/02/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Heart attack.       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was as if I was dreaming.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the igloo and pyramid and when I saw the deceased person.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't count.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well-being when I was with the deceased persons.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    A sound that came to get me, that was getting my attention and got me out of the coma.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandfather who died.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     At the beginning it was like a nightmare, but after the pyramid it was a well-being, no pain anymore, no suffering.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In the igloo, there was extreme cold and the pyramid was as if I was burning, but with the deceased persons, I had a feeling of well-being.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     When I was in the igloo, as if I was struggling for what I already had experienced and that I had to break ice blocks in order to breathe, I only saw my body; I never saw my face.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   When I was talking to my grandfather, he made me decide either to stay with them or to come back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I knew already, and this was confirmed for me, that there is a continuation even after death.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Every moment is important and I don't know what could happen tomorrow or this evening or even now.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Just before waking, I heard a sound that got my attention.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     For myself I now know that you are not dying alone, there are persons coming for us and going with us.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A need to help people who hurt; I need to help people who have pain, for example.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     As if you are reliving the marking events, and when you return to life, as if you had to do a cleaning, in order not to have difficulties when you set off again.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     In front of the persons that have died already and who, where with me, it is a pure love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I'm calmer and I have less fear now, I can say no.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know better what I want to enter my life, more harmony, and more happiness. I know better what I wish, and think more about me, my priorities are my daughter.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I don't remember, anymore, what we discussed with the deceased person, but I remember he was making me deciding to stay with them or to go.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    There are things that I don't remember anymore or this had been like erased from my memory, events of my past life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It is a unique experience, and having another chance to change everything for the better; I think more to keep negative people away from me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    At the beginning, it is as if you want to keep it for yourself, and little by little, you can tell it, as you yourself are looking for answers; it is almost unbelievable for yourself having experienced this experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     For me I wasn't dead, I was alive and didn't understand what happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I realize more what happened and turn the page of my past.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's a unique experience, you feel nothing bad and a total well-being when you are with beings that have gone already to the other side, and in a certain sense, you are never dead, only different.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, it is complete and is doing good, thank you for reading this, have a nice day.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brigitte_possible_nde.html