{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brianna_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Brianna C NDE 4224","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brianna C NDE 4224  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brianna C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2058 Brianna C NDE 4224  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My friend injected heroin into my left arm. He and his other friend were in a hurry to go to the store so they left me there in the apartment alone. I had immediately went for the kitchen to get a glass of water. I reached with my right hand to grab a glass from above the sink and I collapsed striking my chin on the counter. I fell to the floor. 

Immediately in my mind I was in the dark - I felt as if I was shot through space in a body fitted rocket. I remember saying to myself, 'What have I done? Is this how it's going to be forever? I want to go back to my body, PLEASE GOD LET ME GO BACK TO MY BODY.' I saw the out lining of my body in an orange glow far from me. I kept wondering if I was ever going to make it back to myself. It was very loud and shaky I felt so scared. It got worse and worse as I came back into my body. I wiggled my fingers and toes and then proceeded to move the rest of my body. I got up and made my way to the bathroom to see what was wrong with me because my head was pounding. I walked back to the kitchen and as I sat down the neighbor guy and the paramedics rushed in to me. The neighbor told me he thought I was dead because I had no heartbeat, nor was I breathing. My face was turning grey. He tried everything he could to revive me but it was no use so he called 911. I started to cry hysterically, thanking Jesus for a second chance over and over again. Thanks to him I'm still alive and here today at home with my family and I'm never putting another needle in my arm.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12-9-91
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    heroin overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Heroin overdose

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was asking myself, 'What have I done? Is this how it's going to be forever? I want to go back to my body.'

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I'm not sure of anything I'm hoping someone out there can help me have a better understanding of what I've been through.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was all darkness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was a very loud sound I can't describe it in any way just very LOUD, scary.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I felt as if I were in a tight fitted rocket shooting through space at an unusual speed.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A glowing orange light that took shape of my body.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared, confused, very sad, and unsure of what was happening.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I'm not sure.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mom and sister - they were sad this happened but happy I was alive.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I see that I died and got a second chance at life - what I saw in between life and death is unsure but very scary.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel that this happened for a reason that I am unaware of right now but I want to understand what this all means.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I really want to talk to someone about this so if there is anyone out there that can help me in any way I would really appreciate it. THANKS.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brianna_c_nde.html