{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian T NDE 2538","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian T NDE 2538  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						809  Brian T NDE  2538  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

One summer when the temperature was soaring above 105 degrees my brother begged and persuaded my mother and my other two sisters to go to the Comal River to escape the summer heat. My mother was a little uncomfortable about going but she understood about the escape of Texas's unbearable heat.

We went to Comal River nearby New Braunfels, Texas. To make this story brief. Hundreds or probably thousands of Texas teens swarmed over the fence and ignored the warning sign of dangers there. Some teens jumped over the bridge into the river, about twenty feet or more. The heat was really unbearable during that time. Imagine people walking with bare feet on hot rocks or a hot sidewalk; they were hopping to avoid the feeling of burning bare feet.

One afternoon I was about ten years old, friends or family members could get separated easily by the water's currents and get lost somewhere in the river.

I was pulled down to the side and I grabbed the sidewalk and arrived at the ladder to get out then I searched for my brother or sisters with no luck. I walked to a farther, small dam, looking less dangerous than the first one. I decided to walk over the small dam, which has a lot of water falling over it. The water falling down was about four feet to six feet, I believe. I walked and slipped down because the alg' was so slippery. I was rather an excellent swimmer. I did not panic but was very aware of the water's strong current.

Down the water fall, I tried to fight the current and get my body away. I got caught by an undertow current and I tried to swim out. The direction out was lost on me. I could not figure which direction was up, down or right, or even left. I panicked and was very scared what happened to me. I screamed in the water for help, my thoughts were on my mother and family. Water got into my mouth and the breathing ceased to none. My body felt so cold and my brain closed down on me. Blackness covered everything around me. I realized that the Door of Life was closed on me. My body said, 'Is that the death experience? Is that it?' Then I blacked out.

Then ticking of electricity jolts hit my feet and swarmed all the way from my feet to my head and my body found such awe over the feeling. Right away, my life was shown in a flashing increments of 'movie' rolling year by year, individual by individual. My first favorite flashing was when I was born out and my mother's beautiful face was shown for the first time in my life! I did not realize how much love my mother has for me. Second flashing was - I was playing with my brother and sisters and the closeness I felt being with them. Third flashing was my father throwing my body up in the air, a lot of laughter and some puzzled feeling flashing. Then the rolls went fast, faster and I felt so many stars bursting all over my head or body. It was so unreal. Then I saw a light at the end of the tunnel bursting toward me. My spirit or soul was caught into the light tunnel. I flew through the light tunnel. I could still remember the feeling even today! Only description I could give you is the feeling was almost identical to the movie, 'Contact': The New Built Ball Spacecraft falling down the Giant Gyro-Space machine. The actress went through the tunnel right away and she could see outside space by her 'ball space shuttle.' That's what I saw when I was zoomed through the tunnel. I could see some universe by the tunnel's transparency. Such awesome feeling flying through the tunnel at light-speed.

I arrived at the boundary while floating my body near the boundary. I was shocked how much load was lifted off my shoulders such as many ridiculous rules or laws being imposed on us people. For the first time I realized how much bondage we had from the government or churches, it was lifted off my shoulders. And at the same time all of the light 'Conscience of Laws' was, I could not find the right word to describe the experience. It's much like a hurricane drawing all energy toward eye of the storm. It's almost the same feeling of drawing all knowledge and conscience of real-beings into my body and mind!

One example when I approached the boundary. No explanation was necessary for me to understand, at the age of ten, that once I crossed the boundary, I could never come back - period. I was more than thrilled to cross. I intended to cross but my ancestors over another boundary side caught my attention. They were talking in telepathy, which caught my attention. I was born profoundly DEAF and had all hearing family members, which all of them knew sign language! I could read or communicate with about twenty ancestors of others and mine through telepathic methods. It overwhelmed me. I could not believe how many people I could telepathize with simultaneously.

I saw the unexplained community, scenic and buildings, not built by people but obviously by some kind of Supernatural builder. The Mega-city was almost so perfect and flawless. I saw the perfect mega-city through my ancestors. One of my grandmothers or great-grandmothers or even great-great grandmothers was surprised and puzzled that I arrive at the boundary. All of them showed their shocked surprise that I arrived. They were not expecting me at all. But they opened their arms welcoming me to come over. One of my ancestor telepathized, 'Why is he here? Is he supposed to be here now?' asking others, 'I am surprised too. I thought his time was in the short future but not now.' Another jumped in radiantly full of love and joy to see my presence and opened my eyes to our new future. I could not even describe in words what I saw. Sorry I am lost with the words.

In a flashing second. An angel approached me firmly and questioned me, 'What are you doing here?' I was so shocked at his question. At the first glimpse of my Guardian Angel, I knew that he was there when my mother gave birth to me and that he shared the joy and said that my birth was a completed task in his 'Listing.' I looked at him with such an inspired feeling. I felt so close to him but he pushed me one step away. He asked me telepathically, 'What happened?' I did not care what happened, I was fulfilled and bursting with joy and love. I wanted to go over the boundary right away. My angel approached me firmly then scanned me and saw right through me that I drowned! I was so shocked that he knew by 'scanning through me' without any conversation. The firm statement from my own Guardian Angel was 'Your time is not up now. You have some unfinished business to do. Go Back.' At first, I shrugged and tried to sneak beside him. He moved like lightning and put his hand toward me. I felt my body being pulled at incredible speed backward, the light of the tunnel zoomed out of my eyes, and I was slapped back into my body with such forcible hands.

I felt my body once again and I was puzzled to why I am still in my body. I woke up and realized that I was still in the water and I felt that I actually breathed in the water, which is not the case. I heard a voice speaking, 'Stand straight firmly.' Without any question, I stood straight and I felt a big hand wrapping around my body and took my body out of the fall current. And my body was pushed to the end of the land where I grabbed for control. I got out of the water and my mouth poured all the water out of my body on the land. I did not believe how much water got into my body and how much it got out. My life and perspective changed after that!! I knew from that moment I will not be the same person!! For the first time I saw my life ahead of me and the jolts of feeling that I experienced while throwing water out of my mouth hit me so hard. I was so filled with hope and love and felt almost all of nature or people all around me.

I never told my mother, brother or sisters what I experienced! Something deeply inside me reminded me to keep silent about the situation. All I felt was a more enlightening feeling enfolding around me. The words of incredible experience right there is not possible to explain in an Earthly sense. I felt that I was standing right by the Twilight Door and the sixth or seventh Dimension Door of the future unfolding in front of me.

I had many visions and dreams, some of them are pleasant and some of them are terrifying - I stop at here. By the way, my parents, brother and sisters found out about my experience when I was about thirty-one years old. I just felt that the timing was right to break my news. My mother was so shocked and it hit her hard!! My sisters looked at me and ran then hugged me. She could not imagine the life without me. I just smiled.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1977 or 1978  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       I fell down (by algae slipping) and into Dam's waterfall then was drowned by the undertow or current created by the dam's narrow water passage  Other I was not rescued or noticed by several many tube riders! No lifeguards were presented during my time.  Drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at my highest level of consciousness and alertness at the whole time and I remembered every detail of it. I did not for a minute lose a minute or a second of consciousness except for the black-out experience but I was aware of my black-out moment.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I felt that I got stuck with the twilight of space and time. I saw my past and my present along with my future happening at the same time. Is it altered. No, it is not altered at all but we just missed the hidden realms.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I remain profoundly deaf and I am proud of it.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed fully through a tunnel till I arrived to the boundary. Unspoken rules or law was radiating right through me without any explanation at all. I understood them all at once. Wow - it feels like I understood about a thousand books of laws at once without reading or hearing it!! Wow. How it could evolve our society!! Wished we had it here earthly!  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Best part was meeting my ancestors and my own Guardian Angel. Wow. I did not realize that every detail of my life was written accordingly although I was still given some choices.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I did not see a light but all spectrum of light all around me!! The light is not the same as light we see on our normal daily life. It is more of a light being alive and we are aware of all light all around us. Even when touching my feet on the grass. I could feel every movement of each grass blade itself!!  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It is even more beautiful than the scene of "Sounds of Music" It is so magically and so filled with light. Not even one of man-made building or road, or sidewalk was detected! Even animals and farms were there in my presence. Different kind of community not seen alike on our earth. Simply I could not explain how their system work.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       There are no words that I could use to truly describe what kind of emotions I felt during my experience. I was stimulated fully energetically and with such euphoria jolting all around and throughout my soul, spirit or even body. My body, as I perceive right now, is just a tool for my spirit and soul.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     As mentioned above. I saw increments of reviews of my past events in my life.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        A lot of dreams and visions have been revealed to me. More than ten events has occurred and there are many more to come yet that I saw in my visions or dreams. Some of the dreams are so full of symbolism it is hard to interpret.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My view on religions has changed. I perceive the churches more to be institutionalized than to be in a very close relationship with God or nature around them. I still applaud the churches for spreading the Good News. I just wished that they would be more in touch with people outside their churches and I understand why Jesus backed off from the religious path and got into more reality of people's needs.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My view on religions has changed. I perceive the churches more to be institutionalized than to be in a very close relationship with God or nature around them. I still applaud the churches for spreading the Good News. I just wished that they would be more in touch with people outside their churches and I understand why Jesus backed off from the religious path and got into more reality of people's needs.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was shown something that would occurs in the future. It scares me to even mention what would happen. It's like 'hearing' or 'seeing' millions of people screaming at the same time when the natural disasters would fall upon them. It's beyond the control of government. My purpose has not been revealed to me yet but I am aware of why I am being sent back.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes In many ways.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience that I had was very difficult to express in words, beyond what normal people would understand or relate to. It's full of awe and the 360 degree of perspective changed after experiencing the Near Death Experience (NDE). Often I questioned myself why I am still back here and I am ready to go back anytime even if I have a wonderful family - wife and two dearest children. If I was given two choices - to stay or go back to the so-called Kingdom, I would choose the latter one without any question asked or raised at all.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I felt so much stimulating energy all around me including the police using their radar-gun to catch the speedsters. I felt their radar-gun's gamma or whatever it is called. I even reduced my speed to a specific location and saw the police car, once I passed them; naturally, I speed up way past eighty mph without any fear of being caught by police. I realized that I really took advantage of the special gifts given to me. That is one of the smallest examples I could give.  I had many experiences. I could name them endless. One of my experiences was in a dream. I dreamed that I was standing bare feet on the grass. I saw my toenail. I was zoomed to the toenail and I felt like I was standing on my own toenail. I saw millions of butterflies coming out of my toenail's edge to the point when it became few until it constraints up to one at a time and I was helping pulling one by one out. Then I was zoomed right through my toe nail to see how many cocoons were wrapped by my skin's side. That was just one of my many dreams shared.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With only a few of my friends. I finally shared my experiences with my friends in college and more out of college. Their reactions were, 'Wow. It is beyond their understandings.' Some of my friends have experienced my dream of vision revealed to them; they thought I was out of my mind. But when it happened to them. They ran to me to verify more details of my vision or dream. Please, once I reveal those visions or dreams to them. I tend to leave them behind.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I found more about the Near Death Experience book written by Dr. Moody and I began to share my experiences with some reservations. His book really woke me up to how some people went through and how deep I was through compared to many of them. I felt that I passed every phrase except for the crossing the boundary.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just returned back to my normal childhood life but with more alertness.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't have to explain how real it was. I have been there and I am not obligated to give any proofs because it is out of our realms.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_t_nde.html