{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian P NDE 7726","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian P NDE 7726  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3976 Brian P NDE 7726  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was Christmas eve 2004. I was vacuuming at the time and had a heart attack.  I can remember a paramedic talking to me but I also felt that I was slipping away. I heard loud hissing in my ears that became like the sound of a loud waterfall. I remember saying that I could not hear him anymore then, pop! 

I was in a black place that did not feel like a tunnel but was vastly open. I was moving to a 'light' that was not bright but it was golden-soft like a cloud at sunset. I mostly remember the peaceful feeling with no panic; just calm in my mind. I also remember thinking, 'I guess I get to find out what happens now.' I knew I was dead and had no body anymore. I realized that I was not breathing now and also thought about the fact that I was dead and did not care.  I was actually quite calm and in a state of wonder. I thought about the 'cloud' I could see. I wondered why I could see at all. I wondered how fast I was moving as there was no point of reference, but I could feel I was moving for sure. I remember coming to the 'cloud.' 

The next thing I remember was waking up in intensive care 12 hours later. I have no recollection of anything that happened after the cloud, only feelings and some weird sense of knowing something I am not allowed to remember. I do know my life changed a lot after that. I remember telling my boss who was waiting or visiting, was 'All that stuff we have doesn't mean anything.' I had a good job and made $70,000 a year, had a house, nice car, all the 'stuff'. My core beliefs changed, and I do not know why. I did not knowingly change but I did. There actually was a newspaper article about me in the St. Albert Gazette about my heart attack. It was so bad. 

My doctor calls me Lazareth because he said I should not have survived. 

I have fundamentally changed to my core. I ended up teaching in an orphanage in South East Asia for no pay, living off my own savings. Angry at the greed of this world. But before I lived in the very same greed and enjoyed it. So, no chat with God that I can remember, no visits with dead family nothing like that. A sure memory of what happened at the point of passing and a complete change of my life afterwards.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  dec 24, 2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Massive heart attack, four resuscitations, dead for 12 minutes

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I can't say, except the awareness of everything was heightened.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Travelling to the cloud

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time had no meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It felt the same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heard nothing after the pop.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Do not think it was a tunnel but actually the opposite, like a vast expanse.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Soft but a bright golden cloud

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt calm, peace and no worries. I felt relaxed.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I understand that we are all from the same energy

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I do have some vivid dreams now. I dreamt of the earthquake in Tibet one week before it happened. I also dreamt of the aftershock in South Thailand and Malaysia. Crazy, eh?

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Buddhist   not practising. at the time, just general beliefe.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I meditate now, spend time inside of myself and try unsuccessfully, to feel the same calm.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Buddhist   now practising.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was aware. Did not see god, felt connected with something like an awareness of others but nothing I have ever experienced in life.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Compassion and fairness is overwhelmingly important now.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt a , brotherhood, oneness with something.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have a feeling I do, but not 'allowed' to remember.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     No question there is more.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Everything I believed in changed. Compassion has replaced greed.     Everything I believed in changed. Compassion has replaced greed.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes People I knew, think I am too giving now. I do not stay around greed now.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was more 'feeling' than anything else was. A lot of wonder and such calm and peace you could not imagine. But I was completely awake and thinking. You Do Not Go To Oblivion.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Dreams that come true, animals do not fear me; they always come to me now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of this is important.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some think it is interesting, some think it is not. I really do not care. I know what I experienced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As before, it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_p_nde.html