{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian N NDE 902","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian N NDE 902  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						371  Brian N NDE  902  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My friend, John, and I decided to go visit a cave a few miles from where we lived. As we were walking, John described the cave and said there would still be ice in the cave. We walked about a mile into the woods and started our climb up the back of the mountain. The climb up to the entrance of the cave was made difficult because of the rain the night before. The trail was steep and covered with mud and pine needles; we slipped several times on our way up. To make a long story short...


My friend suggested we leave the cave and finish climbing to the top of the mountain. He told me the view was great and we could take an easier trail down the mountain once we were on top. I didn't want to go back down the way we came up because of the mud and pine needles. I agreed to go to the top of the mountain, even though the climb was difficult. I thought going up was easier than going down at that point. Besides, my friend told me the other trail was much easier to go down.


We stayed on top of the mountain for a little while looking out over the surrounding landscape. We decided it was getting late and had better get back home. I asked my friend were the trail was and he said there wasn't a trail. The only way down was the way we came up or over the face of the mountain. I didn't want to go the way that I came up; we decided to go over the face of the mountain. John started down first and I followed his route as we began our descent without any equipment. When we were about eighty feet from the ground, we could see black clouds moving in from a distance. We knew we had to get down before the rain started or we'd be in big trouble. We hurried as quickly as possible and in doing so, I lost the route my friend was taking. I was in trouble; I had no place to put my hand to continue down. My friend was to the right and about six feet below me, he said he would tell me where to place my hand. He told me to extend my arm further to the right, a little further, a little bit more!


I reached and my other hand lost its grip and I began falling to the ground. I remember sliding down the face of the mountain and thinking this is it. I remember everything as if in slow motion, me pushing away from the cliff and tucking into a ball. My life flashing before my eyes, only the good things in my life not the bad. I remember the instant I hit the ground, then a warmth came over me. I was in a light so brilliant and warm, I was surrounded with a sense of well-being. I have no words in my vocabulary to describe the feeling encompassing me. I went into the light and then my grandfather was with me holding my hand. My grandfather died a few years earlier and now I was with him holding hands. We talked and our mouths didn't move. I felt his energy his love. I remember walking with him and going before God. I could not see a face only a light so brilliant you had to look down. I heard him tell me it was not my time and that I had other things to do for humanity. I didn't want to leave; I begged to stay with my grandfather!


I then heard the voice of my friend who said, 'He's dead, what am I going to tell his mom!' I told my friend to shut up and get me some help. He ran to the nearest house at the entry of the woods and called for help. He called his brother Dave and he came with his car and picked us up. I had to crawl out of the woods to get to the road. The only injuries I suffered from my accident was a broken kneecap and some cuts and bruises. I didn't stay in the hospital and was sent home the same day.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1976

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was climbing down the face of a mountain. I lost my grip and fell forty feet to the forest floor.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw myself on the ground for a few seconds and my friend on the cliff, and then I was in the light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      My friend said I didn't move or say anything for about thirty minutes. I do remember seeing my body on the ground and my friend on the side of the mountain. The rest is described above in my account of the accident.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I would say like smoke going up in a chimney, I felt free with no form or constraints, just flowing energy.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My grandfather was next to me holding my hand and we went walking. We talked, communicating with only our thoughts. I was happy to be with him and sense his well-being. We went together before God and I was told I had to return. I still had other things to do for humanity.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Brilliant, warm, feeling of energy, feeling of love and acceptance.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I walked along a path in a garden with my grandfather and it was seemed foggy at times.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     The key is hidden within each of us for peace.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw only the good things that happen in my life, none of the bad things. I learned that we are all the same in this world and we all need to obtain equality. We need to stop putting people into categories such as religion, color, sex or any of the other barrier's society sets to create. These are the walls that create hostility and bloodshed among humanity. The key to peace lies within each individual's heart, find that key!

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told I had to return even though I didn't want to.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe we are all able to connect directly with God, Creator, Allah or whatever name you would like to use for the almighty. The religions on this planet have been redesigned for the purpose of controlling and dissecting humanity into distrust for their follow man. In order to reach peace we must reach within ourselves to find the key placed there by the almighty.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feeling of peace and warmth I felt as I was going into the light. I can only describe it as pure love, like a child being held by his mother after being hurt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have my connection with my grandfather who is with me every day!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I didn't for many years, then only to a close few. I have finally decided I will tell people openly.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I know I can make a difference.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_n_nde.html