{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian M Probable NDE 7849","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian M Probable NDE 7849  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4060 Brian M Probable NDE 7849  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					A Flight Without Wings: My Experience with Heaven &nbsp; Check it out at:&nbsp; Click Here

  I don't remember anything from right before the accident or the accident itself.  My memory came back shortly after arriving at the hospital. I had a very keen sense of what was going on around me, my journey into heaven, and meeting up with my deceased father.  My father told me I had to go back. We both turned away from each other.  

I opened my eyes and woke up to see people in the hospital.  I had been in surgery for 5 hours.  After that, I had spotty memory for the next 3 months or so.  I remain in the dark about the accident, the airlift out of Mexico, and the second surgery in the U.S.  to reconstruct my face.  I don't remember very much about the months recuperating at home.

The memory of my 'heaven' experience remains vivid, but without benefit of sense of time. The aftereffects are extensive and difficult to explain.  But they include heightened sense of intuition by feeling other people's pain, compassion, and their joy. The benefits continue to present themselves in sometimes obscure ways, which are challenging to manage.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  9/11/93

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    CPR given. Direct head injury.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   My accident and NDE took place in Mexico. I fell from about five steps and landed face first on a raised concrete planter around a tree.  I never got my hands out, so this was a hard blow to the head.  I sustained massive head trauma including multiple skull fractures, multiple displaced fractures of nose and face, a blowout fracture of the eye orbit, avulsed and ruptured globe, along with other injuries too numerous to mention.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Saw and heard doctors and nurses before drifting away to see my father.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Felt a keen sense of understanding, clarity and love.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt the highest level of consciousness and alertness during the time of my NDE.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I felt no sense of time at all; it could have been minutes or hours.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Although I lost one eye in the accident, I didn't notice it during my NDE.  My vision was clear and crisp.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't notice any hearing limitations even though I lost a certain amount of hearing on one side due to specific bone fractures.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I felt drawn to a powerful light. I am not certain if I passed through any type of tunnel.  I was focused on an ever-increasing presence who turned out to be my father.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     My father

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright powerful light that was all encompassing, which drew me away from the doctors and nurses.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A bright place with cloud-like surroundings, but again, I was more focused on the speck I had seen.  It became ever larger, and eventually I saw it as my father.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt PEACE that was euphoria, unlike anything I've ever experienced.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I felt the understanding and clarity that I referred to before

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I guess my spiritual practices have changed inasmuch as my fears in life are nearly absent and I approach life differently now.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Select   Spent many years in parochial schools... I don't practice so much anymore, but feel much more spiritual and closer to God

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     All my life, I had heard of this 'Heaven'. Descriptions over the years indicated the wonderful place it would be.  When I was there, however, I didn't see any angels with wings or halos... no unicorns... no archangels, etc..  The peace I felt however, exceeded the pre-conceived notions I had of this place, that most people believe through faith alone.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in an afterlife. I believe that we all should strive for a life of kindness and goodness towards others.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt a palpable connection to all other's energy and love. It may have been the basis for some of the extreme peace that I experienced there. Part of that continues on with me now.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Certainly an awareness... My injuries were gone... my father was younger and vibrant yet I knew him immediately...  had to be a power greater than we know here for sure.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   A purpose of nurturing the connection seemed to overwhelm me. It felt sort of 'built in' to the experience.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Yes... I felt compelled to recognize and pursue kindness and goodness towards others.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was aware of the accident that had occurred, and the injuries involved. During my experience though, the limitations were absent and I was able to embrace what seemed like a new life outside our "earthly" realm.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     When I was told I had to return, I felt very disappointed.  I didn't want to leave, even though I knew I was apart from my family and friends. Was the first "earthly" emotion I experienced during the event.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Yes... as in #36... the connection with love to others

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes As you might imagine, with a clear sense of understanding and peace, my approach to relationships, including spiritual ones, has changed because my perspective has changed. I'm not perfect by any means, but I continue to explore fine-tuning my efforts in hopes of becoming a better person.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No feeling like it in our lives here and now.  Few adjectives in English language can adequately describe event

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  As stated before, my memory was interrupted both before and after my accident, however, the experience itself remains vivid and clear in my mind. Almost as though it was a segment apart from my usual life here.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a heightened sense of intuition. That may be attributed to my understanding and clarity, and maybe not. I feel it now and it has proved itself to me over the years since my accident.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole package is meaningful to me, once I was able to organize the thoughts and process the event. Also, it easier to accept once a couple of experts validated me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first shared bits and pieces nearly right away, and was met with skepticism. At that point, I retreated and kept it to myself for nearly 20 years, at which point I wrote my book to share with all that have some interest. My hope is that anyone who reads it is influenced in some positive way.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Well, it's hard to deny what I saw and what I felt. Words are words, but as they say, 'seeing is believing'.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience has afforded me some benefits that have proven themselves over the years. After a while, I really had no choice but to accept the nature of the event, embrace it, and explore my options for using my gifts to positively influence other people's lives or belief systems.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The experience itself may have been very brief, as I have no sense of time about the length of the event.  The most compelling part of my story seems to be what happened afterwards in my life with the changes in my outlook.  The physical limitations placed on me due to the severe injuries remain secondary in the overall experience.  I wouldn't trade what took place to go back to my existence before the accident.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think this is the most comprehensive questionnaire I've ever dealt with.  Specific questions or opinions could be addressed through speaking engagements and/or Q & A sessions made available to as many as possible (TV , Radio, book endorsements, for example).      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_m_probable_nde.html