{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian L NDE 748","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian L NDE 748  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						268  Brian L NDE  748  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was nine years old when the event happened during gym class outside. We were wearing a T-shirt and long pants. That's why I think it happened around May. The gym teacher set up an obstacle course using the jungle gym, swing set, and sliding board. I fell off the eight foot sliding board, ruptured my spleen and broke some ribs on my left side. When I landed from falling off, I was knocked out.  My sister who was there when it happened and told my mother and father I was out for ten to fifteen minutes during the time I was knocked out.


I remember seeing my gym teacher and sister talking to me. It was as if they were talking inside my head, I couldn't hear them with my ears, like you would if you were holding a conversation with someone, it was like they were talking to my mind. It's hard to explain it's like that voice you talk to when you are thinking about what to write, like your senses.


After I saw my sister and gym teacher I could see myself leave my body and float up towards the sky, I could see it but not feel it. I could see the other students standing in line, most of them laughing. I kept floating higher and higher, it was like being in a plane or a rocket ship I could see everything getting smaller and smaller I was scared. I went through the clouds and continued going higher until I was through the clouds and in an area where it was starting to get dark.


I would continue going higher until I started hearing singing, and joyful music. Not long afterwards, I saw a little white light ahead of me. I started floating towards this little light, it got brighter, and larger. The closer I got towards this light I started to make out this voice, it was a voice I had never heard before, it was strong but yet gentle. The bright light almost reminded me of heading towards the sun at this point.


I stopped floating at this point. It was like being in the bottom of a well looking up at the opening at the top and wondering what is on the other side of this dark hole.  Then this shadow appeared it looked like a tall man in a long robe with long shoulder length hair, with a moustache and a long beard. He bent down reaching out his hand to help me out of this dark hole. As he was reaching he said come follow me. Being scared and remembering what my parents told me about not going with strangers I said, 'I don't know who you are, so no.'


He told me I'm the alpha, and omega, the beginning and the end. At this time, I could see shadowy people singing and laughing gathering around the opening of this dark hole I was in saying come on you will like it here. I told this shadowy person, who seemed at the time to be the spokesperson or the one in charge of this happy group of people, it seems like fun and you are having a great time. I still don't know who you are. He told me, 'yes you do, you never met me but I know your family, and there are others from your family who would like to see you and who know you and your family very well.' At this time, more people started to show up telling me their names, and reassuring me that this bright light is a nice place to be. You will always be happy and always be healthy.


When they said that, I remembered what I learned in Sunday school about what it was like in heaven. The tall shadowy person who appeared in the beginning told me the same thing again, 'Come follow me.'  I said, 'I'm too young to die, my family would miss me. It can't be my time.' He told me the things I hold true in my heart, we will separate and no longer be as one. He told me things that will happen in my life until I return here again. I still told him that I would like to be with my family.


At this point, I was really scared, being only nine years old I just wanted to be safe back at home with my family. When I told him 'no' for the third time, he seemed to be a little mad because it got dark all of a sudden. This angry, mad sounding voice that scared me even more started to laugh and began confirming what the other voice told me about the things that are going to happen when I return home.  It also showed me the events leading into them. It was like watching a movie about your life from the time you are at now until the time you return to the dark pit, or well, with the bright light. After watching what I call a movie about my life I awakened from what I thought was a dream I was having, like that from when you wake up from sleeping, I didn't know where I was or who was around me. Still scared from what I thought was a nightmare, or a bad dream I saw my mom and dad standing beside me at the hospital.


I was so glad to see them I cried, they were glad to see me too. They gave me a hug before they had to rush me into the operating room; they reassured me everything is going to be okay. That's all I can remember of that time. While I was in getting operated on I had another one, this time this one was a little different from the one I've just described - this time I saw terrible times that were going to happen in the future, events in the world around me and in other countries. Both showed me events correlating with each other when the events in my life are going to happen. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    05/12/1969

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death HAD 2-MIN. TO LIVE WHEN TAKEN TO HOSPITALI had two minutes to live.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It felt as though my body stayed on the ground and my mind and senses left my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was alert, and aware of what was going on around me.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Only going from nine years old to the time I pass-away, and when I was floating up and going to the different places. The dark and the light. It seemed like you were in two very different places each one different. No sense of time, what seemed like forever, going through all the events and the things that were to happen seemed like a long time, only in reality they took a very short time.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Only noises you can relate to like singing, laughing, sounds that trigger a normal response. Ones you would react to.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     When I went passed the clouds and it got dark it seemed like I was in a deep well at first and then it seemed to be a tunnel the way the light made it appear.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw a tall dark shadowy figure standing in the middle of the bright light reaching out his hand. Then I saw other small shadowy figures approaching, and standing around what appeared to be the opening to a well, at first no but they knew my family and me. They said they were relatives and wanted me to come and join them on the outside of this pit.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It started out small like a light from a small pen flashlight, to the size of a very large circle. Like the ones they show on TV were a train enters a tunnel, to where it almost comes out just before it appears to hit you and they pan away.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the events that took place or the things that will happen and where I am at when they happen. Two dimensions, one being every dark and the other a place that is every lit-up, or bright. The dark one seemed every sad and lonely; it gives you a sense of a lot of hurt and pain, very sad place emotionally.  The other seemed very happy, cheerful, a place you want to go to, a place where you could feel emotionally happy, like that saying, 'not a care in the world'.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned after the experience from my mom and dad, when I was about twenty-one years old, when I got the nerve to tell them about what happened. I was afraid they thought I might be crazy or something when I told them. But I asked my dad what my grandfather's name was, because I didn't get a chance to meet him, he died before I was born. He told but I can't remember it now but it was the same as the shadowy figure talking to me telling me to join them. I found out that all the people talking to me were relatives who had passed away, before I was born and I wouldn't have known them or what they looked like. They were surprised when I started to tell them names of whom I talked to and described them to them. They even gave me clues, or hints, as if they told me that it would help me to know who they were; only I didn't know them or what had happened to them. When I told my mom and dad those hints, they began to cry and told me never to repeat them to my aunts and uncles. I believe we will go to heaven or some place when we die.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Not at first, I didn't think about them, I forgot all about them at first. Only when things were going to happen I would have dreams about them where I would wake up sweating, and shaking. I still have them, the dreams the shaking and sweating, I can't sleep at night. I'm always worried what's next, and I find myself worrying how can I break the chain of events, but I can't they happen anyways. Everything that was told to me at nine years old, what was going to happen, happened, even when I had forgot about them. When I do forget I get cold chills going up and down my body. I get every tired, like I can't concentrate, I doze off in a deep sleep and I'll remember, or be shown again, what's going to happen. Usually a week, sometimes a month later it happens.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     What I called a deep well or the edge of a cliff; a place where I need help to either get out off or lifted up over. No, I didn't cross over or out of the well, I had a sense of 'this is going to be my final destination'. That I was going to die and this is where I am heading, or staying. I was frightened, and scared, I wanted to be with my family.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt like I was when I told the first shadow, no I don't want to follow you. It felt like I was telling a stranger I didn't want to go with him emotionally.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   LUTHEREN,COULD RESITE THE BIBLE AND UNDERSTAND IT

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I can remember a little bit about how I was growing up. I was happy and care free. As time goes on, I'm just the opposite scared, frightened, wanting to change what is going on in my life. Knowing I can't and having to except what is happening since everything that was predicted happened already and what lies ahead changed my life totally.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I could tell what was going to happen to different people I knew, and sometimes work with; where I was going to live; what kind of houses; how many children I am going to have, and have already; what kind of jobs I'm going to have and work at. I can describe all of them from a dream I had, all this after my accident back in 1969. I was nine years old, a small child, if someone told me back then this was going to happen I wouldn't believe them. I didn't have any of these things back then, just a strong belief in the Bible.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       In telling someone about it and seeing their reaction when it comes true. I don't plan them or do them deliberately, I forget all about them until I get the feelings I have been there before and it's my first time there, or I have recurring dreams about it before hand. Worst part about it is knowing I can't change the things that are going to happen, they seem to happen just the way I was shown back in 1969. I can't change the things that happened in the past I find myself trying hard to change them in the future but can't.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    At first they thought I was making it up, or they just didn't believe me at all. Some thought I was crazy, but until some of them saw the things happening, or tested them, as if my ex-wife did with her father, they believed me. They wanted to help me break the cycle but couldn't. Some think I can predict the future and want me to tell them what is going to happen to them. Some I can, others I can't.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Is there a way for me to stop the chain of events. I tried almost everything from hypnotism, to trying to stop them when they are happening but can't. It's like trying to stop the wind from blowing. You know when it blows, you know which direction it is heading, and where it came from, and what causes it to blow, but how do you stop it from happening.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Not at this time.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_l_nde.html