{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian K NDE 41","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian K NDE 41  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian K NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1496 Brian K NDE 41  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Events surrounding NDE: I was employed at the University of Michigan; I was married and had a son, four months old. I was hitching a ride home

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 12, 1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Several injuries from metal pipes being slammed against my head and body. Also a stiletto wound which punctured a lung, and cut an artery from my liver.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt intact, but didn't inspect myself.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Total.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Well, I had a total life review, and saw the past, the future, and stood in front of the creator, and the earth time was probably five to ten minutes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    But my body hummed as I left it.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was concentrating on the light at the end; I remember stars or spirits, around me as I flew up.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Immediately upon leaving my body there was darkness, then I saw several humans that were floating, they told me not to go to the light. At the end of the tunnel was a man who asked about the life review. I saw spirits, like shining lights of love, and I saw twelve beings that were not human, they had large heads and large eyes, they had no mouths that I saw, or ears. They were not scary, they were not demanding, or judgmental, they were there to help. Above them was a spirit that did communicate what things meant.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was an orb of love knowledge, understanding and wisdom.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Well, there was the level of being out of the body, and looking down at it, then the level where there was darkness, then the tunnel, then the life review, then standing in front of the Creator, then standing in front of the 'greater beings of knowledge' then the trip back.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, knowledge, understanding.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     That love is the answer. That there is a Creator, and the description of God in the Bible does in no way relate to the Creator.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I remember a man standing next to me, and he asked me if I was ready to review my life, then I saw like an HO scale model railway train-board below me, and it was a city, and I dropped into it, and reviewed my life. I don't remember specifics.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Well, I saw my son , I remember saying, 'Oh Aaron' as I only had one son at that time, and the spirit said, 'No.' And I realized it was my other son (not born yet).

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   That is the thing that I first tried to explain to my family and friends that I had a choice to live or die. They could not relate to this. It shut me up. I felt like people thought I was crazy. At the time, I stood in front of the twelve beings the spirit told me what would happen if I returned that I could have control of, and I saw the image of my son Mike with his head back, as if he had broken or injured it. I felt like that was a good reason to be in my body, to return to life and I did. I felt only love there, no pain, or fear.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was agnostic, as I had an NDE as a child, that I had no thoughts of until later in life, way after the second one that I describe here. From the first one on, I could and can't stand churches. I now know there is a Creator. I don't like religion.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How do you explain the Creator? I was trying to communicate with Christians.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have visions that come true. I cannot ask to have a vision. They just come. I have verified these to my wife and others. I think the greatest gift was to be able to see the love in everyone. I can see love in everyone. That's a gift eh?

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When in the darkness the people approached me, I was flooded with fear, but not of the light, just them. Then the worst part? Although it was free will to come back into my body, the realization I was going back into my body, back to earth. That sucked real bad!!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My first attempts to explain were hesitant, and had no courage behind them. After I went to a Dannion Brinkley seminar, I got determined. Now I teach classes in community education here in Boise Idaho, and I have given a seminar. I have always gotten great reviews.  I think the greatest reaction was at the side of a dying man who could not speak, or move at all (brain tumor). I told about my NDE to his family, and the man moved, he took my hand to his mouth and kissed it several times. Can you beat that?! I felt my knees weaken, and I cried -- happy tears.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       In my class when I try to explain what the Creator looked like, I say this: imagine an aardvark running across the stage, and everyone having to write a description of it. We would have as many different descriptions as there are people describing it, but we all would understand the descriptions by the others. And, that someone trying to figure out what we saw by reading the descriptions would not be able to make sense of it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You have to understand that the soul leaves the body. In 'soul weight' studies, there is shown a weight loss at the time of death. If there is a weight loss (mass), and it leaves then it must have speed, or velocity. Speed times velocity is energy. It is an energy that leaves the body at death. E=MC2 energy equals mass times velocity.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_k_nde.html