{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian J NDE 4952","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian J NDE 4952  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2547 Brian J NDE 4952  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My story started when I was having dinner at home. I live by myself with my two cats, and one evening, when I was having dinner all alone, I suddenly started to feel very light-headed, dizzy and short of breath. I decided to try to make it to my bedroom so I could lie down, with the hope it would subside. I never made it to the bedroom. I was suffering from a heart problem I did not know I had. There was a dresser with no drawers in it in the spare bedroom, and I could see myself lying inside this dresser all curled up in a ball. I watched as one of my cats (Compass) walked up to me and lay down by my side.

Suddenly, I saw this very bright and pulsating light. It was like a strobe light, but a hundred times faster. It was pulsating so fast that it was almost a steady light. I heard people calling my name. Next, I found myself traveling to a place that was beyond comprehension. I was no longer feeling the pain that I had been when all of this started. It was a very strange feeling, unlike any I had ever felt before. I knew that somebody or something was guiding me through this very strange, but very loving, journey. This person or thing loved me very much, even though I could not tell who or what it was. Then, in a split second, there were people surrounding me - people whom I had never seen before. I could feel love from these people, like no love that I had ever felt before. I did not want to leave this place. In this place, I was pain-free and surrounded by strange people who loved me very much.

I was hearing this lady's voice saying over and over, 'Brian, get up, you have to get up Brian, Brian get up,' when suddenly I awoke, gasping for air and lying inside this empty dresser in a big pool of sweat. I was aware of having scrapes and gouges from the dresser and of my cat Compass lying next to me, just like I had watched him do. When I awoke, there was no lady there - like I said, I live alone. The next day I went to see my doctor, who confirmed my heart problem. I just know that I 'cannot' wait to go back there, even though I know that I can't go there again for a long, long time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    'Unaware I had heart problems, but it was not a heart attack.'  Other 'Heart problem, not sure if heart stopped or not but I know what happened and what I saw.'  Heart problems.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist in this place.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Bright strobe lights, beautiful colors, etc.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could communicate without speaking.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Passed through a very fast strobe light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Not sure who they were, but I just knew that I was loved by all of them.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A very fast strobe light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     not sure where or what this place was.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, kindness, beauty, pain-free etc.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'I believe that there is someone or something that helps us go to where we are supposed to go, and I now believe that we 'DO' go on to a beautiful and loving place after we die.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I believe there is someone or something.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Not sure.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The people that were waiting there for me, not sure who they were, but I know that these people loved me, and confused about the place that I went.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Some psychic abilities.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All those whom I 'did not' know there, but they still loved me very much. I can't wait to go back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Documentaries.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was sad that I couldn't stay in this place.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just can't wait to go back to this place.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was all too real and we will all go to this place someday.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_j_nde.html