{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_g_nde_6286.html","mytitle":"Brian G NDE 6286","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian G NDE 6286  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3048 Brian G NDE 6286  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil) and at a 'cove-like' beach that (seemingly) was 'the' place for serious Brazilian surfers, in fact, this place was almost exclusively for surfers (particularly excellent surfers). This beach is known for large (sometimes 'huge') waves and treacherous rip currents. At the time, I was swimming and bodysurfing to the point of exhaustion, and decided to move away from the surfing area (big wave area) so as not to interfere with the surfers. Any surfer or beach-knowledgeable person that is aware of this situation can guess what happened; I was caught in a vicious rip-current.

Three things combined to make this a 'death-inviting' circumstance: 1) vicious rip current; 2) exhaustion; 3) my lack of buoyancy (lots of muscle, dense bones, and little fat). I was drowning (I suppose I may have actually drowned, but since I am alive now, this becomes a semantic issue) and I was barely saved by a Brazilian surfer! Regarding my NDE:  to be sure the 'other realm' is the 'other realm'! To me, there are some similarities between this realm and the other realm, yet there are some profound differences (Note: I am of course stating only my own experience and beliefs/interpretation about the other realm.) I will 'editorialize' about this at the end of my writing. 

The most evidentiary thing about my NDE was the out of body experience. I was able to 'see' the rescue and a 'close-up' view of the water and beach area and, most spectacularly, an extremely accurate hawk-eye view of the cove area. Noteworthy, after the fact, I was able to verify the amazing accuracy of my hawk-eye view of the cove via satellite photos, 'rial (plane or helicopter) photos, higher elevation (perch) photos, various boat vantage point photos and beach level photos. Wow!

Notwithstanding, my out of body experience is only the most evidentiary thing to me, it is not the most important thing about my NDE. Moreover, I have no 'objective' evidence to prove my out of body experience or my NDE. Some of the characteristics of my NDE were, self-acceptance (believe me, this is NOT my natural state in this realm); unconditional positive regard; profound empathy; a preservation of life energy; fearlessness as to death; and, above all, freedom and a marvelous liberating feeling!

Now for my 'editorializing', or contrasting to other NDE: Even though I felt a strong connection to 'wholesome' reality, I did not feel 'cosmic consciousness (a connection with 'everything'). Also, post my NDE, I have a very profound awareness that some evil is not merely a relative or quantitative occurrence, for some evil is a horrifically qualitative reality and some people are actually evil (for instance Joseph Stalin or Theodore Robert 'Ted' Bundy), they are not merely overly defensive or misguided.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Drowning.  Life-threatening event: I do not know for sure if I was clinically dead.   I was drowning in a vicious rip-current and barely saved by a Brazilian surfer!

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Energy and freedom was super! The self-acceptance was very welcome as well!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Time and (to some degree) space was rather indeterminable; however, my guess would be near the middle or end of the NDE.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could 'see' everything (everything that made a difference) from various distances and perspectives.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I really did not recall much auditory input until I was 'coming back' from my NDE.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     This is described in my aforementioned description. Particularly see my statement about evil!

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I had before and since my NDE an interpersonal (friend to friend) relationship with God (monotheistic in nature); however, since my NDE, my interpersonal relationship with God has become even closer and more loving in a "special" way!

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I had before and since my NDE an interpersonal (friend to friend) relationship with God (monotheistic in nature); however, since my NDE, my interpersonal relationship with God has become even closer and more loving in a "special" way!

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     This is described in my "long" story aforementioned

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     This is described in my aforementioned description; especially, self-acceptance!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Yes, I was one with "wholesome" reality!

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Well...I certainly believe in God, thus there was either an actuality or assumption that God was present.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I am heavily into Logo-therapy ('meaning' therapy}, and thus, this is always (even during my NDE) a factor.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I am heavily into Logotherapy, and thus, this is always (even during my NDE) a factor.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     The other realm is the other realm!  To me, there are some similarities between this realm and the other realm, yet there are some profound differences!

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     This is described in my "long" story aforementioned; especially, self-acceptance!

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     This is described in my aforementioned description; especially, self-acceptance!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Much less small talk and much more nature!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I consider myself a rather fine writer, but this 'thing' was way beyond words!

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Very vivid and great!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Very vivid and great!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard some stuff, but did not care about it until my own NDE!

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Very, very real!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Because I almost drowned in the ocean you would think I would hate the ocean, but I love the ocean even more and sense some my NDE while at the ocean!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_g_nde_6286.html