{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian C NDE 3826","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian C NDE 3826  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1799 Brian C NDE 3826  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I got to the emergency room lying on stretcher, it was like I was looking down on myself and body, no pain. Could hear nurses and doctors talking. They were cutting my pants and clothes off. Nurse saying get a catheter, me peeing everywhere, laughing. Everything seemed real white, clear, vivid 3D. Then I black out, the pain, seeing my bones popped out and blood. 

I survived emergency surgery and two days later get pneumonia, lungs, feel like dying hurts to breathe. When I was age five my uncle died, my mom's brother, had vision everything goes white, then see big blue Olympic size pool and my uncles there. We jump off the diving board and into pool, rest on the side of pool, he tells me everything is going to be okay and I will live, felt peace, joy, happiness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10-3-1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentSurgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Motorcycle wreck 10-03-1989 age eighteen. Broke right femur hip two places, ruptured spleen, compound fracture left wrist both bones popped out. Pneumonia lungs.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I came out of the vision or dream and told my mom and everyone.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Color was Digital vivid and Bright white.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Was crystal clear, maybe even mind reading don't remember my uncle's lips moving as he consoled me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My dead uncle that I would live and everything would be okay.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright white light then colors.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, Happiness, Peace, Serenity, on Fire. Fear also at first.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     In beginning read, researched and went to church every Sunday for years. Now go to church when I can and feel the need to. But not as often as my wife and kids do.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     In beginning read, researched and went to church every Sunday for years. Now go to church when I can and feel the need to. But not as often as my wife and kids do.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there is a God of love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I changed and grew more spiritual, closer to my wife and her family, than to my family members not close to some.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I will know or feel things before they happen. Someone will be sick, hurt, or in accident and I will know prior to finding out. Songs on Radio hear, and then they come on. Know what wife is thinking. Yes and 3-2006 had out of body experience, after my best friend committed suicide 1-2006. Saw bright white light and sphere figure eight rainbow of colors, flew up into sky, space black, stars bright, stars swirled into older man's face, said I AM, I AM, Body felt on fire, joy, could feel tears running down face, opened my eyes there was my ceiling fan, closed eyes see his face. Is this real, dream or a vision?  I asked to see heaven, purple/pink haze surrounded me flew into tunnel fast in space worm hole, to city oval shaped big as earth, in 3D red, purple lines buildings skyscrapers odd shaped angles, with golden haze, then city expanded vertical and thousands of cities on top of cities, plants huge and animals like dinosaurs beautiful. Then flew back to body did not want to go back. Cried woke up my wife told her.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My uncle, mom's brother, was like my father figure when he died I was age five. The pool was significant because he taught me how to swim age four to five. My parents divorced when I was age one.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Few, my close family only.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Vivid vision and I was still alive, view life a lot different,

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I felt Love, Peace, Joy, beyond human feelings.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The spirit, soul, and body are real. God is real, heaven is real place.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_c_nde.html