{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian B Probable NDE 40.5","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian B Probable NDE 40.5  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Brian B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						92  Brian B Probable NDE  40.5  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 


Multiple cardiac and respiratory arrests over a 60 day period.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    April - June 1996

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-relatedHeart attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Multiple cardiac and respiratory arrests over a 60 day period.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Part may have been separation. The majority if it was first person. I experienced it in my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Mixed from unconscious to semi-conscious

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was a point where I was falling from orbit around a planet in a darkened space ship. Things seemed to go to slow and I wanted it to end even though I realized in my mind ending it would mean my death.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The sounds I had were part of my experience and could be related to what was happening to me at the time during the cardiac arrests

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      From anxious, to calm and then boring. I knew at one point if an event occurred I was going to die. I was very calm concerning that fact. I was surprised when I didn't

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     During the events, I did not.  But I was very awake and aware of the situation and I found myself doing a lot of reviewing while I was wide awake for hours on end.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I was unable to move. I was strapped in a chair in the above mentioned space ship.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew if I felt my body I would be better. During most of the experience, I was unable to move. Toward the end I decided to try to move my foot one more time and I felt it and I also felt it move. Shortly after that I heard, 'he's coming to' from one of the residents

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Catholic… did not practice

What is your religion now?      Moderate   continues to not actively practice

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Difficult to describe.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   At face value it was easy yet to convey all the emotions is difficult. I found it to be very mixed. Frightening at time yet calming and also amusing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       After one of the cardiac arrests seeing my family there. Writing a note to my wife to have the doctors stop and not resuscitate me anymore. Thankfully my wife ignored me... came back the next day and really let me have it :) In a loving way. I did have another arrest but shortly after that, we were able to convince the doctors they needed to look into my underlying condition and to treat me differently. They finally did and things turned around quickly.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Amusing, disappointment, frightened depending on the person and how I told it. It was accurate but at times I would put in more of the funny aspects of it all.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      It was not difficult to answer the questions. I did however have a problem tonight filling out the actual event of the NDE. Of all the times I had one, there is one that is still vivid and also difficult to type in.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_b_probable_nde.html