{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian B NDE 2834","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian B NDE 2834  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						969  Brian B NDE  2834  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  It was January 1972. I was living the life of a hippy with its associated drug-taking. Four of us rented a house together on the outskirts of Birmingham, England. After work each day we spent our leisure hours in taking drugs, but only the 'softer' versions like cannabis, speed, mandrax and LSD. Sometimes with alcohol.

I only took LSD on three occasions and all three were 'bad trips'. It was on this last occasion that my NDE happened.

I was in the house in the evening and had taken an LSD tab. I was left unsupervised. (Probably due to my Friends all being high themselves.) I had wandered around the house during my nightmare 'trip' and eventually fell down the stairs from top to bottom. I have no memory of this. This was told to me later on.

What I do remember is finding myself in the midst of a wonderful light. I realized that I did not have a flesh and blood body anymore but I was still enclosed in 'something' - a kind of spiritual body. My eyes told me I was floating in this light and that hundreds, maybe thousands, of other entities were also there floating in this beautiful, warm, comforting light; though I was too far away to communicate with anyone. There was this amazing feeling of love all around me. I felt just wonderful and blissfully happy. I wanted to stay there forever!

Then I heard a very sweet voice, which seemed to come from inside my head. This voice felt very, very special to me. I had this intuition that I was hearing the voice of God. His voice was so wonderful to my senses and the only word I can think of is beautiful. He said only three words - 'Come to me'.

I wanted to do just that and go with Him! But instead, I found myself back in my earthly body and lying on a hospital trolley all alone in a corridor. I just got onto my feet and went home. I never told anyone about his wonderful event in my life until about three or four years later. And then only to selected people whom I thought might understand my story. I never told my parents nor my other family. My parents have both passed on and today my brothers and sister still have no knowledge of this.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1972  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Possible injury to my head.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt so much more alive!  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Whilst within the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Where I was felt timeless.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was a kind of telepathy. A link from my mind to His mind.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I perceived other beings like myself held within the light whom I was not able to communicate with, but my unshakeable belief is that God spoke to me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was within the light. It held and sustained me. I needed nothing else.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I perceived the light i was suspended within was the light of God. His personal radiance.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete bliss!  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now have an unshakeable belief in the existence of God and our afterlife.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now have an unshakeable belief in the existence of God and our afterlife.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Prior to my NDE I was indifferent to God. I never thought He existed. Now I am certain.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Three to four years later I told it to four friends. It was met with respectful silence. Perhaps they were speechless?  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real from its start to finish. It's like being hungry then having a full stomach. We do not need others to tell us this. I felt full and complete in my new identity.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have since studied books on theology in some depth. And other peoples NDEs. These evidences confirm my belief.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_b_nde.html