{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brian_nde.html","mytitle":"Brian NDE 2198","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brian NDE 2198  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brian NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						619  Brian NDE  2198  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Six years ago, I was at a picnic with a bunch of friends. We were having a good time, fishing, playing baseball and Frisbee. Well, the heat got to me and so, I started to walk over to the table to sit down for a bit...

Everything suddenly faded away! Then, I'm in a wide open field. I felt the breeze blowing and the warmth from the sun. I could see thousands of miles in all directions. I could see and sense, every detail of every blade of grass that was in the field - from all directions too! The grass was in the field was bluish. Green, but blue in tone. Almost like turquoise in color. Then, I see something running towards me. It was a little puppy. It was blond or golden yellow in color and I pick it up. It seemed to be so happy to see me! I thought, 'He looks very familiar - where do I know you from?' I asked. 'I know you from somewhere!' He just kept licking my hands and tried to lick my face. His tail was wagging, a million miles a second. In the distance, I could see, what looked like a wall of people coming towards me. I never did see them as clearly as I saw the puppy, but I sensed I knew at least some of them. But who were all there others. I felt calm. Then suddenly, everything was gone.

Next thing I remember, I'm thinking to myself, 'I'm dying.' Then, I opened my eyes and sat up. There were two nurses in the room and they both looked at me in shock and then, ran out of the room! I get up off the mat I was on and look out the door. Wondering what happened - I try to wrap a sheet around me that was on the counter. I leave the room. Then, two doctors meet me in the hall and pull me back into the room again. They sit me down and start hooking everything up to me. All they kept saying was, 'Relax!' 'Be still!' 'Take it easy!' They also took the toe-tag off my big toe.

After twenty minutes or so, they then tell me what had happened. They said that I was brought into the Hospital at 1:23 pm, by ambulance - due to a heart attack. They rushed me into the emergency room! At 1:27 pm - I flat-lined. They worked on me for over fifteen minutes to try to revive me. They couldn't. They used the electro-paddles on me on three different occasions, but after that - they pronounced me dead at 1:41:23 pm.

After six hours, I wanted to go home. They said all my 'Vitals' looked good and perfect! But they wanted me to stay a few days, just in case. I said no. Against their advice, I took a cab home. I called my friend and he and his wife were just totally blown away! They couldn't believe it! They were told I was dead! They were hysterical! I told them to calm down - I'm okay now. Well it didn't take them long to get over to my house. I was making grilled cheese sandwiches when they arrived. We all sat down and they cried.

What's odd is, two days later I was sitting and watching TV, and I just shut the TV off when, a car pulls up into my driveway, and some guy gets out and comes to the door. All he asked was, 'You like animals, right?' I shrugged my shoulders, 'Yea...?' He goes to his car and gets out a big box from his back seat, brings it up to the porch and there inside it, was a puppy - no bigger than a loaf of rye bread. The same puppy I recall seeing in the hospital - in my dream. He was so happy to see me, he tried like hell to jump out of the box when he saw me! I pick him up and he licks at my face, madly! Wow he was feisty! Meanwhile, the guy was taken back a bit and says, 'Darn - he sure likes you. He never did this to anyone! He always nipped at people and growled! I only brought him over because a lady by the name of Norine said you liked animals and would take him.' I told him, 'I know, no woman by the name of Norine.' But, I said, 'Yes I will take the puppy anyways, though.'

My dogs name is Blu, he is a Shepherd/Collie mix. He's my buddy. And I believe in my heart - he was given to me, by God.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 8th 2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Sudden heart attack, just passed out. They worked on me but I still died in hospital. Then I came back.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could see for thousands of miles - clear as day. It was far away, but it was if I was right there looking at it directly. Just like the grass. I could see each blade from all directions - even though, I was standing up and above it - looking down. I knew the dog from somewhere - I just couldn't place where? I must have remembered him - prior to even being born. As for the people, I knew some of them and couldn't figure out who all the others were. The ones I did sense I knew - it didn't last long enough for me to find out who they really were.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the field.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I felt like I was there before. Like, I knew the place already. But, can't recall when or where.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see and sense everything from all directions and angles.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't even think I remembered hearing anything.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There were hundreds of people walking towards me in the distance. Some I felt I knew. The others I was unsure of.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The field of grass was abosultly beautiful! Turquoise is my favorite color, now!  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I thought, 'What happened?' But things around me took the attention off myself and I focused on things around me. I felt like I was home OR I never left in the first place. And I felt calm.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        When I saw Blu in the box.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes People don't know what to think or say anymore to me. But they sure seem to know without a doubt - I'm wrong or am crazy.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The only 'gift' I got was Blu.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Blu, my dog, and the color of the grass.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Very few. But most just think I'm nuts. They know I died - but, they don't buy into what I experienced.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I use to listen to Art Bell's radio show. I read some things regarding NDE. I didn't really care about it. I am a Christian and when I die - I'll be present with the Lord. Maybe I didn't fully die? Maybe I did. I do know that at the time of this 'experience' I was upset with God - I always felt God never helped me. Everyone else had girlfriends or wives. And all the female friends had boyfriends or husbands. But I was always the single, one. I wanted someone in my life or something special to happen. I was lonely and God had to know it!  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      It had to be a dream during the dying process????  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It all came into focus, by the third day when I saw Blu in the box! Then I knew it was 'definitely real'.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Blu is a mid-aged dog now. But over those years. Well: I'll explain it this way.  Three years ago, a young guy, around the age of twenty-four to twenty-seven came to my door. Blu started to growl. Which is unusual - he usually just barks. I know every one of his barks, whines, growls - and what they all mean too. But this growl - I never heard before. Anyways, the young guy asked if I 'Needed my grass cut?' he was kind of nervous acting and out of place. And I felt uneasy. So I told him, 'No.' and shut the door. Blu was sitting straight up in the chair looking right at the door. Meanwhile, I go back into the hallway and continue painting my linen closet door. After a while, I hear a door slam shut! I get up, think, 'Now who's here?', and look out. I then noticed that my two-cement flower containers where gone, off the porch along with my eighteen year old Bonsai, that was on the table. I then knew - it was that young guy who did it. Blu knew.  Then two summers ago, there were kids outside playing in the big ditch. Well, they found a turtle. But they couldn't get to it, because of all the smelly muck. I walk across the street and think, 'I'll go and get it for ya's!' Then, that's when Blu started barking up a storm! He just wouldn't stop barking! I tell the kids to, 'Hold on and I'll be back.' I go in the house and tell blue to 'Shut up!' and then I hear breaks and a loud crash - right outside! What happened was, a car lost control and veered off into the ditch and crashed, right where the turtle was - right where I was going to be! One boy got a broken arm and the other one, a few scratches. The driver was okay. Blu knew.  Then this past February. Blu started scratching at the wall and woodwork in the kitchen. He never did that before - but I couldn't stop him. He ended up, tearing away the wallpaper and some of the floor molding. The next day I was woken up by the smell of smoke. I get up and the house just smelled bad - it was so strong. I could tell where it was coming from. I go outside and it wasn't outside - it was inside. I come back in and look all around. Then I see smoke coming from the wall where Blu was scratching the day before. The fire department came and tore down the wall, it was electrical problems and there was a fire in the wall trying to start-up. Blu knew.  That's all. I KNOW Blu was a gift from God.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nope - all was clear and accurate as far as I know.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brian_nde.html