{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brenda_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Brenda S NDE 7118","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brenda S NDE 7118  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brenda S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3598 Brenda S NDE 7118  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was about to collapse, dizzy headed. I got about one foot towards the floor when I was running in a beautiful euphoric lily field, a bright sunny day, long grass, a fence, a tree; I was wearing a white veil over my body. I could feel the beauty and love in me, surrounding me.  I could also see myself through an eye shape, just watching and being myself at same time. I was beautiful and healthy again, unlike the state I was in on earth. I was laughing, unlike earth.  I was running to meet people I knew, but I didn't know anything else such as who I was. 

I was brought around with water being thrown over me. I saw the criminal first, I said to myself, 'He's not God!' Then all the voices entered my head again, I said, 'Oh, no!' I asked my daughter how long I was out; she said five minutes. 

I didn't mention the experience to the criminal or anyone for a long time. I went to hospital for blood test. I looked up NDEs in the library, where I found out the dress I had on was called a veil.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  19 years ago or so

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack.  Other: collapsed  I was attacked.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole 5 minutes. Euphoria, I've never felt before, beauty and love that I crave for in everyone. Warmth of a perfect heat wrapped around and in me, all of the above.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Heavenly beautiful

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Can't remember

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Family members and God

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was definitely heaven.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love Happiness Euphoria: I felt wanted and needed and incredibly loved.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I no longer believe in catholic faith, I am spiritual now

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   spirituality

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Ibelieved in heaven but never knew how amazing it isand how easy it is to get there,it is a dimension straight in front of us

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Everything about it was different,except lily field,im sure they exist here

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     How was the fence built? there must be things on earth in heaven,that was a sign

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     When I returned I knew what todo next

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Total love,infinate

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I never had a serious relationship with a man again.  I don't drink alcohol, I talk more to heaven as a whole, lots things. I don't trust people but try to help the poor.  Money is God's enemy. But I still need to live, he knows that. I and my kids sold our souls to heaven just to see what would happen and we all won a small amount of money and we have extra talents.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Iremember every detail and when i am in a bad place I go there in my mind for answers

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Faint voices

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    1 year or so

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I saw a ghost when I was 13 or so.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Out of this world, can't wait to be there with my kids and grandkids who are here on earth with me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am very happy it happened but not under those circumstances; now I think of it every day. I feel life here is depressing, for everyone, except for my children and their children who are precious and beautiful and they mean everything to me. No matter how hard life gets and we get joy from each other but nothing compares to the feelings in heaven.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brenda_s_nde.html