{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brenda_i_ndes.html","mytitle":"Brenda I NDEs 5259\/6202","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brenda I NDEs 5259/6202  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brenda I NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			2753 Brenda I NDEs 5259/6202  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 6202  					</p>  					I come from a family with a history of heart attacks. I have known from a very young age that high cholesterol as well as high blood pressure causes plaque to accumulate and cause heart attacks. My Doctor scheduled me for an EKG, which showed mild ischemia. I was cleared by the Doctor. He told me that I had a good five years before I needed to worry.  I was told by my sister, who is a nurse, that our heart problems do not show up on EKG's. We must have pictures of our heart taken, also known as a heart catheter, or x-rays of the heart.  I pleaded with my primary physician for 5 months for these x-rays to be done, even threatening the Doctor that I would be a death certificate on his desk if this x-ray was not done.  

Finally, after five months, the Doctor set me up for a heart cath. on March 1, 2006. During this exam, it was revealed that I had three blocked arteries, eighty percent blocked. My Cardiologist set me up for a heart stint procedure on March 16, 2006. This was a 'simple' procedure compared to having my chest cracked open and having open-heart surgery. While placing the stints in my heart, one of the stints poked a pin-size hole in my heart.  Three weeks earlier, another Cardiologist prescribed medications. No one had mentioned to me to go off those pills and I, not thinking to ask, continued to take my pills the weeks prior to, and the morning of my procedure. 

It took only a pin-size hole in my heart to begin bleeding profusely. My Doctor had not realized this happened at the time.  I was wheeled back to intensive care unit, and the nurse began to hook me up to the blood pressure machine, the heart monitor, and all the other fascinating machines that have bells and whistles on them to save a life. The nurse asked me if I was all right.  I told her, 'there is a burning sensation here,' and indicated my upper chest area.  She said, 'the Doctor was just working in that area, we'll get you on morphine and you'll be just fine.'

Luckily a friend of mine, who is a nurse, told me not to go into the hospital without a loved one by my side at all times. 

The nurse began to administer the morphine and I drifted off into space.  My eyes became dilated and my body turned grayish blue, and cold to touch.  My loved one said to the nurse, 'something is wrong'.  The nurse at that moment noticed the blood pressure machine was indicating a reading so low it was off the chart.  The nurse called code blue and within moments, the Doctor was running into the room hollering orders.  My bed was tilted so that the blood would rush to my head I suppose to prevent severe brain damage.  The Doctor ordered the defibrillator and the adrenalin.  He rushed Darryl out of the room.  The Doctor placed a tube into a small incision in my upper abdomen and over the next 24 hours drained three bags of blood off my chest cavity.  

It was 'lights out' for me literally. The last thing I remember hearing was, 'Fight, fight, fight, stay with us.' I was actually in total darkness; however, I was not afraid.  I remember thinking, knowing, I am taking my last breath.  I had such a feeling of peace; I can only describe it as a peace that passes all understanding.  Shortly after that moment, I remember a light so bright and glorious after the brief moment of darkness.  It was like when the body dies and that nanosecond before the soul appears before God.  

The darkness is in that timeless moment.  I felt as though I were on a very dark stage, with the most brilliant spotlight on me.  I knew I had died and my soul was telepathically communicating with God.  My soul began to pray, 'Dear Heavenly Father, I thought I had done something to lengthen my life. It looks as though I have done something to shorten it.  Please forgive me of any sin that might be keeping me from your presence.' I remember all of this.  At the moment I finished my prayer, I remember the most angelic face, with the most beautiful smile, coming right close to my face and saying, 'you're going to be all right.' To this day, I have no idea who that was.  Was it a nurse, was it an angel, or was it me in the spirit form reentering my body? Directly after that, I heard the nurse say, 'Doctor, we have a pulse.'

After four days in the hospital and tracking my vital signs and making sure my blood was replenished, my Cardiologist released me.

The nurse told me what happened.  This is her words, 'A pin-size hole occurred when the stint nicked my heart. My heart sac filled with blood and the heart could no longer beat, due to the Plavix and aspirin, I went into cardiac arrest.'  This all took place in forty minutes.  The loved one who was with me confirmed this time.  He was in the waiting room crying and praying.  A Baptist minister approached him and asked him what the matter was.  They both began to pray for me, and God, at that time, granted me the gift of life. Whenever I have an opportunity to tell others of my blessed experience, I do! I also tell people, since I pray on a daily basis, I was able to pray to God, even through the valley of the shadow of death, and I feared no evil. I knew I was not alone, I felt a love so great and comforting, I could only consider this a very awesome experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 16, 2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Heart attack  'A stint poked a pin size hole in my heart, my heart sac filled with blood and over the next 24 hours, 3 bags of blood were drained off my heart. I went into shock and when my heart sac filled with blood, it could no longer beat, that is when I had the ND  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'I had three heart stints placed in my heart, one of the stints poked a pin size hole in my heart, i went into cardiac tamponade, out for 40 minutes, my friend was  in ICU room after procedure, he was rushed out for 40 minutes.'  I come from a family with a history of heart attacks at very young ages; my dad and his brother both died before age 35 from myocardial infarction.  And, at the age of 27, my son passed away from a massive heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right after I came out of the darkness, which seemed to be such a short time. I had never been afraid of the dark before, but I remember then having been afraid to look down.  I had a feeling I might see hell, or even worse, I might see my body lying lifeless on the hospital bed.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no concept of time.  I felt like I was in suspended animation.  I call it the 'Twilight Zone.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I do not remember any people speaking with me, no vivid colors, no dark tunnels, and no lightning-speed motions. I do remember a Near Death Experience that had happened at five years old, being shown to me; I guess, as a reminder that I had once gone through this before as a child.  I can see myself looking down at myself drowning in my aunt and uncle's pool. I vividly remember during this experience being brought back to that time and seeing me swallowing water every time I hollered for help. I still do not understand why this was brought to my attention. I did not have any other flashbacks that I remember during this NDE.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was all telepathic.   The last thing I heard from the doctor was 'Stay with us. Fight, fight, fight!'  Then I heard the nurse say, or the angel say, 'You are going to be all right.'  Then the nurse said, 'Doctor, we have a pulse.' I heard no voice of God, nor did anyone say, 'You must go back.'

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I went from total darkness to the brightest spotlight shining on me.  Then I knew that this light was the light of God.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was in front of me, not all around me.  I remember it being so very bright, but not hurting my eyes at all. Also, it was so warm and full of love and glory and peace.  I felt so fortunate to be having this experience.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     DID NOT SEE PEARLY GATES OR PEOPLE OR ANYTHING, ONLY LIGHT

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt an incredible feeling of knowing that I was taking my last breath and not being afraid, and then being disappointed for days that I had to come back to this life on Earth. I really felt sad when seven months later, my twenty-seven year old son died of a massive heart attack. I could not understand why God took him and not me.  My spouse of twenty-seven years had died from cancer in 2004, so I felt confused, but blessed, to have experienced this.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Only the past event of drowning at five years old.  My uncle saved me.  I had never remembered myself looking down on my body and hollering 'help' until the day of my NDE.  It's weird that that was the only past experience that I can remember seeing.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I only knew I was dead and it was confirmed when I heard the nurse say, 'Doctor, we have a pulse now.'

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'Baptist, Christian/ born again'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I had accepted the Lord in my twenties and I still love God.  I know he is there in heaven waiting for me.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'Baptist,  Christian/born again'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I had accepted the Lord in my twenties and I still love God.  I know he is there in heaven waiting for me.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew and felt everything was as it was supposed to be.  I felt no guilt, only knowledge that I had better begin praying because I was in the presence of something so glorious and non-describable.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was only hard to express because the joy and beauty of the experience left me speechless, but I continued to talk about it because it was such a glorious experience. I knew I never wanted to forget it. I consider my date of death as March 16, 2006, and that is also the day God gave me the gift of life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My son died seven months later and I had to travel to California to claim his body. When I was cleaning his apartment, waiting for the funeral home to call, I smelled a gangrene smell.  It smelled like something had died in his bathroom or under his kitchen sink. I checked all around but there was nothing dead.  Two minutes later, the funeral home called and said, 'Mrs. Inman, how long did your son stay at the medical examiner's office in L.A.?' I said, 'He passed away Monday night.  They did not find him until Tuesday night and he was at the morgue Wednesday, Thursday and today, Friday.' The mortician said, 'He is going to have to be cremated. His body has begun to decay and smell.  You will not be able to put his body on a plane and take him back to Florida.  You must have him cremated.'  I had had a psychic experience and smelled my son's soul that day in his apartment.  I cried myself to sleep that night in his apartment, and, while sleeping with his pillow, I smelled his hair, his toothpaste, his deodorant, his cologne.  I smelled cigarette smoke about 3:00am that morning.  I think he had not yet departed from this earth.  His body was gone, and even smelled, but he was watching me clean his apartment.  I was sad but true and kind of funny.  I imagined he was standing, looking over my shoulder, thinking, 'Mom, what the heck are you cleaning my apartment for?  Shouldn't you be doing something else? I'm dead!'

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        'Peace that passeth all understanding.  Yea though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I feared no evil…'  The verses and the experience became very real to me.  I felt compelled to tell anyone and everyone who would listen.  Many thanked me for sharing such a beautiful experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I only told people who were very close and actually, upon telling them, they shared similar experiences about deceased loved ones.  My beau said, 'Shush! People will think you are nuts!' and I said, 'So what? Who cares? I know what I experienced.  Life is cool and so is death!'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I worked in a doctor's office but I never really thought about it but after I experienced mine, I talked to a lot of patients who, over their lives, have had NDEs. They felt very comfortable sharing with me after I shared with them.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was sharp and vivid.  I talked about it to my doctor and I even thanked him for saving me but I ended by saying that if I had not come back, I would have been just fine.  I was mad at my beau for getting the nurse's attention and saving me.  I loved being where I was.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I will never forget the feeling of peace.  I never expect to feel that peace again on earth and I look forward to death, but I am enjoying life while I am here.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Once, years ago, before I had my heart fixed, I think I almost died in my sleep because I remember hearing the most angelic music.  The next day, when I woke up, I figured it had been real.  Sometimes I think, 'was it a dream or an NDE?'

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Thank you for giving me the opportunity to do this.  I always wanted to document it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       How could I improve on such a thorough questionnaire?    

  	Experience Description  5259  					</p>  					When I was 52, I began to feel extremely tired and weak climbing stairs. I went to my family doctor and expressed concern that, 'I am a heart attack waiting to happen.'  Considering my family history, he ran me through a battery of tests.  Blood work and treadmill tests had been done on me for years and high cholesterol had always been a factor in my healthcare. My EKGs and stress tests had always been fine, but for five months, I had to plead with my doctor to take pictures of my heart.  Finally, after five months had passed, I phoned my doctor and told him, 'If you do not do X-rays or pictures of my heart, I am going to be a death certificate on your desk.' The doctor finally scheduled me for an angiogram (I believe that's what the test was called).

I was medicated and lying on the gurney, eyes wide open but in a very relaxed state.  I was able to see my heart beating on the screen above me, and I clearly heard the technician say, 'Oh my God, she has three blocked arteries!'  Three weeks later, they had me scheduled for a triple stent procedure.  I was glad I had pushed the issue, because it clearly was an issue my doctor did not want to deal with.  I had a wonderful cardiologist assigned to me, and on March 16, 2006, I was set up for a 'simple' procedure; no chest cracking and only a couple of days in hospital, or so I thought.  This procedure was still a dangerous operation, and what happened to me that day was a mixed blessing. The doctor placed the stent on a wire or something that he ran up inside my right arm.  While placing one of the stents in my heart, it poked a pin-sized hole in it.   I had been placed on Plavix and aspirin (blood thinners) three weeks prior to the procedure. No one had mentioned to me to get off those pills and, not knowing to ask, I had continued taking them right up to the day of surgery.  It is no wonder it took only a pin-sized hole in my heart for it to begin bleeding profusely.  I was wheeled into the ICU, and the nurse began to hook me up to a blood pressure machine, the heart monitor, and all the other fascinating machines with bells and whistles especially for saving people's lives or so I thought.

The nurse asked me if I was all right.  I told her, 'There is a burning sensation here,' and I indicated my upper chest area. She said, ' Well, the doctor was just working in that area, we will get you on morphine and you will be just fine.'  Luckily, a friend of mine, who is a nurse, told me not to go into the hospital without a loved one by my side at all times.  That information saved my life. The nurse began to administer the morphine and I drifted off into space.  My eyes became dilated and my body turned grayish blue and was cold to the touch. My loved one said to the nurse, 'Something is wrong.'  At that moment, the nurse noticed the blood pressure machine was indicating a blood pressure so low it was 'off the charts,' so to speak.  The nurse called 'Code Blue' and within moments, the doctor was running into the room, hollering orders.  They tilted my bed so that the blood rushed to my head. (I suppose to prevent brain damage.) The doctor ordered the defibrillator and the adrenalin. He rushed Darryl, my partner, out of the room and it was 'lights out' for me! The doctor had to place a tube into a small incision in my upper abdomen and over the next twenty-four hours drained three bags of blood off my heart.  The last thing I heard was the doctor saying, 'Fight, fight! Stay with us!'

I was literally in total darkness, for what seemed only moments. However, 'I am not afraid,' I remember thinking, as I realized that I knew 'I am taking my last breath.'  It felt as though someone were pushing the air out of me.  I suppose chest compressions were doing just that.  But I knew it was my last breath. I had such a peaceful feeling. I can only describe it as 'a peace that passes all understanding.'  Shortly after that nanosecond of darkness, I remember a light so bright, it was as if I were on a very dark stage, having a feeling that someone far greater than any human was appearing before me.  I knew I had died and my soul was telepathically communicating with God.  I remember praying, "Dear Heavenly Father, I thought I had done something to prolong my life, but it looks as though I have done something to shorten it. Please forgive me for any sin that might be keeping me from Your presence.' I remember all of this. That is, my soul remembers it, but my brain was in suspended animation. I do not know the time frame, except this all took place in forty minutes, according to my friend, who had been allowed to come back into the room.  I finished my prayer and heard the nurse say, 'Doctor, we have a pulse.' But right before I came to, I remember the most angelic face, with the biggest, most beautiful smile, saying, 'You are going to be all right.' Then I was back in my body, which I only knew because I could see that the room was all lit up. (The lights never go out in the hospital room.)  It was MY light that went out. After four days in the hospital, tracking my vital signs and making sure my count was replenished, the doctor released me.  The nurse told me what had happened. These are her words. 'A pin sized hole occurred when the stent nicked my heart. The heart sac filled with blood and could no longer beat. The Plavix and aspirin caused the blood to flow quickly and I experienced cardiac tamponade.'  While I was in the 'Twilight Zone,' as I call it, or the ND state, Darryl, my partner, was in the waiting room, crying and praying that I would live.  A Baptist minister approached him and prayed with Darryl. It was at that time God granted me the gift of life.  Now I use my time wisely. Whenever I have the opportunity to tell others about my blessed experience, I do! I also tell people that, since I pray on a daily basis, I was able to pray to God, even through 'the valley of the shadow of death. I feared no evil.' I knew I was not alone. I felt only love, and it was a love so great and so comforting, I could only consider this a blessed experience. If one does not believe in Jesus and one is not praying on a daily basis, I cannot assure you that your soul will naturally begin praying when you die. I can only suggest you open your heart (no pun intended) to Jesus.  He has promised us a place in Heaven if we believe in Him. A beautiful verse in the Bible, Revelations 21:23, describes Heaven. 'And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to sine in it; for the glory of God did lighten it, and the lamb is the light thereof.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 16, 2006

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attackCPR given    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   One of the heart stints poked a pin-size hole in my heart and the heart sac filled with blood causing the heart to stop beating. My blood pressure dropped very low and the internal bleeding caused cardiac tamponade.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I remembered my first NDE as a child when swimming in my uncle's pool.  I could see this child hollering for help and every time I opened my mouth to scream for help, more water filled my body.  It was me as a child.  That is the only thing I can remember seeing flash before me.  I have a feeling there was more, but I can't remember it.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seemed to know absolutely that I was dead.  I knew I had gone to a better place.  I knew I was in the light of Christ, although I could not see a being, only the brilliant light.  The feeling of love surrounded me.  The greatest gift of this experience was the amazing feeling of being loved and being in a very good place.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was after the moment of darkness and I was overcome with the brilliant light.  I seemed to be telepathically comforted by a higher power that I can only describe as God.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   No sense of time at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was the same. I seemed to have to place my hand over my eyes as if the brightness from the light would harm them.  Yet, I felt no pain from the light and the peace I felt was totally awesome.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing had nothing to do with it.  I was experiencing a peach and a joy.  I remember no sounds.  Everything was telepathic.  My thoughts were understood and I had an understanding of peace and tranquility that I have never had before nor ever had after.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I have no memory of a tunnel, no deceased loved ones, no voices, no one there to meet me; only the light of God.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a totally awesome light in front of me.  I remember shielding my eyes, as if to protect them.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt love, security, peace, warmth; only very positive emotions.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I only understood that I was in a very good place and I was in no pain and only felt a love so great it caused unspeakable joy.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I came to a barrier in the sense that I knew I was before the light of God, but I knew I was not in God's presence.  I prayed, 'forgive me of any sin that is keeping me from your presence.'  It's hard to explain.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Born again Christian, Saved  through the blood of Jesus Christ, through his death on the cross.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I always believed, then and now.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     WELL, I HAVE ALWAYS BELIEVED THERE IS A HEAVEN AND THAT GOD HAS PREPARED A PLACE FOR THEM WHO BELIEVE IN HIM, BUT I HAD NO SENCE OR KNOWLEDGE OF THE LOVE AND PEACE AND CONTENTMENT ONE WOULD FEEL UPON DYING.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believed I must live a pure and clean and Godly life; filling my mind with things that are beautiful, lovely and good and ready to meet my savior at any time.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I did not see a body or an angel or a being; only the feeling of a most Holy Presence.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   I BELIEVE GOD IS JESUS AND IS THE HOLY SPIRIT, I FELT I WAS IN THE PRESENCE OF A MOST HOLY GOD.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I FELT LIKE THERE IS DEFINATELY  A ONENESS WITH GOD, BUT IT WAS NOT TIME FOR ME TO STAY WITH HIM.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     IT COULD ONLY BE GOD.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   I still do not know the purpose of this experience, except that I am compelled to relay it to others.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     YES, I KNEW THE LIGHT I WAS FEELING WAS FROM GOD IN HEAVEN. I FELT MORE ALIVE THEN EVER.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No     I HAD NO FEELING OR THOUGHTS OF EARTH OR LOVED ONES ON EARTH OR PROBLEMS ON EARTH. EARTHLY  THOUGHTS WERE  JUST NOT THERE.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     A LOVE SO GREAT AND  PEACEFUL AS THOUGH IT ENVELOPED MY WHOLE BEING.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I was living in an intimate relationship.  Now I live in a committed relationship, but there is only love and caring and commitment; no intimate relations.  I feel, since I am not married, there should not be any intimate relations.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes My son who is Bi-Polar has nothing to do with me and my loved one is still my companion.  We take care of each other.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I could not stop talking about it when I returned to work.  I was filled with the most incredible feeling of joy, almost unspeakable joy.  I was encouraged to stop talking about it by Darryl for fear people would think me crazy.  I said, 'so what, I must tell others.'

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I REALLY REMEMBER THE THINGS I REMEMBER... BUT STILL HAVE A FEELING I WAS SHOWN THINGS... THAT WERE BLOCKED FROM MY EARTHLY MEMORY. IT IS HARD TO EXPLAIN.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Most definitely.  My sense of smell was enriched, the clouds were whiter, the sky was bluer, and my psychic powers were noticeably more fine-tuned.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seven months after my NDE, my 27 year old son passed away with a 90% blocked artery (LAD).  I had a dream when I slept on his pillow.  I could smell his hair, his mouthwash, his toothpaste, his essence on that pillow.  It was a very unbelievable experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I immediately shared it with my loved one; the one who told me not to tell others because they would think me crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There is no question that it happened and I was amazed that I could remember it.  The more I talked about it, the more others shared their experiences with me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still believe it happened.  The more I share, the more others confirm how real it was because they have had the same or similar experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I did get curious about what the bible says about heaven.  It talks about the measurements and the light in heaven in the book of revelation.  I find it extremely interesting.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I felt a complete closeness to my son.  After he passed, I actually felt his presence many times.  I feel this awareness was because of my NDE.  I feel as though, since I have been on the other side of that this veil, between life and death, I am not a stranger to the afterlife.  I feel as though I am a beacon of light to those on earth and those on the other side.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brenda_i_ndes.html