{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brenda_h_nde_2671.html","mytitle":"Brenda H NDE 22671","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brenda H NDE 22671  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brenda H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3004 Brenda H NDE 22671  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had just delivered my eldest daughter.  It was December 21, 1982. In the Recovery Room, I became very cold. The nurses gave me seven warming blankets and I was still cold. I was transported back to my original room, with another patient, although I was still freezing. Each time the nurse came in the room I would let her know how very cold it was, but she ignored me. As she left the room for the fourth time, the IV came out my vein and blood was everywhere, on the gown, sheets, and the floor. My roommate called for the nurse, my blood pressure had risen very, very, high. I remember being placed on another stretcher and taken down this well-lit hall.  I remember seeing a lot of nurses and Doctors around my bed, with needles and other devices, which they used. All of a sudden I was lifted out of my body to the corner of the ceiling in the Hospital room, as I looked down, I could see my body lifelessly on the table, with tubes, IVs and I could see the Doctors and Nurses all around me calling my name. Brenda, Brenda!  I actually heard and saw them; I actually felt the same, without a body. Suddenly I was drawn through the ceiling; I felt nothing, just went through. I saw a very, very bright tunnel.  As I moved toward it, closer and closer, all of a sudden, I felt something all over my body. The doctors had injected me with something and I returned to my body on the table, I stayed in ICU for 4 days. After this happened, I took a walk around the Nurses Station.  The Nurses who were there that night, mouth flew open -with a sigh they said Mrs. Hines, (I was single at the time), they were astonished, I also heard whispers, we thought she didn't make it, then the Doctor came in my room and said "We thought you were a goner".

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 21 1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Childbirth  after giving childbirth.  Clinical death

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was exactly the same without a body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I knew I had transformed, though I felt the same way.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     No, not Heaven, just the tunnel with the very, very bright Light.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a very bright, very long tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     They were the same.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       My emotions, were the same, I tried to get the Nurses’ and Doctors’ attention, although they couldn't hear me. They kept on calling my name, trying to make me come back.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I realized they couldn't hear me, but I could hear them (the Nurses and Doctors).

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I know I returned.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I always believed In God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best was that he chose me and I returned to tell, there was no worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It doesn't matter about their reactions, it happened, and it is my spiritual duty to tell.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I've seen all kinds of Angels , I've seen Angels floating all on my Bible and I heard someone call my name at 2:00am in the morning , The voice sounded deep, and like waves of flowing water.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brenda_h_nde_2671.html