{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brenda_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Brenda G NDE 2371","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brenda G NDE 2371  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brenda G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						698  Brenda G NDE  2371  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I had agreed to go out on a blind date with my girlfriend and her boy friend. The evening started out at a drive-in and my friend and the guys started drinking and doing drugs. I had one beer because I didn't go in for that kind of stuff. My girlfriend and her boyfriend eventually passed out in the back seat. When we left the drive-in, I was so glad to be going home because I had spent most of the night fending this guy off. I didn't notice right away that he wasn't going the right way. I said to him, you're going the wrong way. He said I have to make a stop first. Next thing I know he stops and all around us is just woods. He got out of the car, came around to my side, and said get out. I said why then he just grabbed my arm and pulled me out. I yelled for my friend but she was passed out and didn't respond.

He dragged me into the woods I don't know how far. I remember crying and asking him to let me go. He must have hit me and knocked me out because this is where my experience began. It felt like I walked through a door of some kind. It was all dark but not a scary dark. I didn't feel fear; I felt calm and started to wonder where I was. All of a sudden, there was a very bright light. As I turned toward the light, the things that happened next happened really fast. This voice came out of the light and at the same time, I slammed back in my body. I felt my lips move. The voice in the light said I'll quit crying. At that moment I became aware that he was sitting on top of me, he had been punching me in the face. With what I said, he immediately stopped and let me get up. Something in my head kept telling me to get to the car. I didn't know where the car was. It was as if something was directing me as I got to my feet and started moving. I saw two people standing there but they had long robes on and it was a woman and man. The only thing I thought when I saw them was 'who are they' and 'how strange' Then that voice in my head said 'Get to the car.' Somehow, I don't know how I did it, but I made it to the car, and finally woke my friend. I am glad to say I survived but I know that I wouldn't have if not for the help I received.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1970  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         attempted rape  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the time I stepped into the darkness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     People I saw I somehow know they were not human form, plus the light, I have never seen such a light before.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I felt like stepped through something.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The man and woman that were standing there watching me somehow I knew they were there for me.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It started very bright and was a distance away and than it stared coming closer and the brightness intensified.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, peaceful.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Lutheran  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Lutheran  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More appreciative of others and how fragile life can be.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with a girlfriend about twenty years later.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just know because I watched it as it was happening.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The same reason I know that someone, be it God or whatever, intervened or I would not be here today. Because I didn't mention in my story but I was beat up really bad I passed out twice before I got home.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brenda_g_nde.html