{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brenda_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Brenda F Probable NDE 424","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brenda F Probable NDE 424  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brenda F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1294.5 Brenda F Probable NDE 424  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been in the hospital a few days hooked to monitors when one evening around 7:00 they nurses ran in and got me prepped for surgery.  They rushed me to the OR where the doctor was waiting.  He began to swab my stomach with antiseptic while telling me that I would be asleep before he did the surgery, I was not.   Before I was asleep, he cut me open and I sat up on the table.  He said, 'I told you to have her out, I can't stop now so get her down and out.'  From there hands pulling me down and a mask was placed on my face.  The next thing I knew I was up on the ceiling looking down at the body being worked on.  The room was packed full of interns with clip boards (I would later find out that it was a teaching hospital and I was the first case of this kind they had ever had) I watched him take the baby from me and saw that it had black hair and I heard it cry once.  He then handed to a nurse saying, 'It is gone.'

 When he said that...I went into a black tunnel that had a pen point of light at the end and as quick as I wondered what it was, I was through the light and standing in a field looking around.   Everything was crisp and clean like there were no dust particles to block the view; it was a beautiful field with a very small stream running through it.  As I looked across the stream I saw a man, he was sitting on a pile of big rocks, sitting on one, resting his back on the other.  He had hair the color of gold, parted in the middle and laying in waves and it was so long that it was spread out on the ground behind him.  He was nude but it felt natural as if I were looking at someone fully clothed.  As I looked at him, he began to speak telepathically to me, which now seems strange but at the time also seemed natural.

He said, 'Hi Brenda, I am your supreme being and I am here to teach you some things that you must remember in order to go where you are going.  Do you think you can remember?""  I said of course I could and with that, he had a pointer or something in his hand and he pointed to the ground beside him and it looked like a slide projector of the human brain cut in half.  He began telling me about the subconscious part of the brain and that this is where our spirit memories are.  He told me about God, where he came from, why he came, why he made us, he said words I had never heard before and names I had never heard of.   He said 'Can you remember?' and it was like...what a silly question, of course I can remember.

At this time, I was pulled back to my body but just for a second and I was back out into the light and again the man was there but this time he was standing with his hand stretched out to me saying. 'It's time for you to go if you are ready.  Are you ready?'  I began to think about my children and I said, 'I can't go yet, I can't.'  With those words on my lips, I began to fall backwards through a black void that was the most horrible place I can imagine.  There was nothing solid yet there were shapes like I had never seen before (sort of like if you were to draw in the dark with a laser light) that is as close to it as i can get.  There were people running, falling, screaming, bleeding, lashing out at me as I was falling but they couldn't quite touch me, they would come soooooo close I could feel the air move past my face.  I fell back into my body and that was it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sept 1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was bleeding to death but the baby was still living, I was admitted to a catholic hospital and told I had to be on deathbed before they could take baby.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I was in the field, I had the sense of looking as I did at the time 23 or so

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The body was unconscious but the soul was wide awake.  I was more aware of these things than anything I have ever experienced here in life

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard the man's voice and I heard the people screaming

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Through a black space that was more than tunnel-like

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My supreme being and people in the dark. I did not recognize anyone.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Imagine going outside at night when it is totally dark and looking out into the sky and seeing one bright star, that is how it looked to me

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     described above

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt like I was going home and was agitated that I could not go with him

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I was taught all but upon waking I knew nothing except that he said words and names I had never heard before (in this life) but had no trouble understanding then.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Small stream or brook.  Yes, if I had stepped across the stream I would have been dead to this world.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was aware that the decision was mine to make  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know what to believe and that it is important that I knew the truth in order to make up my mind on which way I would believe

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was the feeling of oneness with everything in the field and the worst was the feeling of total separation in the dark space

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    reactions vary.  Some are touched by it and others look at me as if I am crazy.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   There is not a drug made that could come close to touching this.  It was as real as you or I.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have learned that dying is nothing.  It is as natural as breathing and we should not fear it but look forward to the wonder that awaits us.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brenda_f_probable_nde.html