{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brenda_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Brenda E NDE 165","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brenda E NDE 165  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brenda E NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1444 Brenda E NDE 165  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My boyfriend and I were playing around in the park. I was doing back-flips and for some strange reason I wanted to show him, I could do one over him. He got down on his hands and knees and I proceeded backward over him. Somehow, I landed on my head.

When I became 'alert', I only had the feeling of being alert. There was only total blackness, no sound, nothing, not even from myself. Slowly my thoughts seemed to come to me. I realized I was just suspended in this blackness. I wasn't afraid, I was just aware. Very, very slowly, I would drift right or left, and then stop. I repeated these motions until I became aware that I was actually inside a black funnel. I could tell that I was near the bottom. At times, I would stay stationary, at other times I would very slowly drift around the sides of the funnel. As my movement increased, I noticed that the more I moved up toward the top of the funnel, the faster I would drift around the sides of the funnel. I also could 'hear' something, although I wasn't registering what it was. Let me state that I was controlling my movements. I don't know what was making me active, I just was.

I started noticing that I was bobbing up and down in this funnel. I would get closer to the top and then bob down toward the middle. Eventually, I began to stay close to the top of the funnel. I was aware of drifting around the side of the funnel, and now it was continual. I wasn't stationary any longer. I just kept drifting around and around the side of the funnel, and then I began to slow down. I could hear muffled sounds here, and I slowly kept drifting around until I slowly drifted to a halt. I then opened my eyes. I wasn't aware of anything. I could see this person talking to me but I didn't understand anything he was saying. I really don't think I even heard him. I was totally dazed. Soon I could hear my boyfriend calling my name.

I answered him. He was crying and said how I had scared him. My memory came back and I was able to figure out where I was and who my boyfriend was. He helped me up and practically carried me to his vehicle. He took me to the emergency room and told them I had gone into convulsions when I had landed on my head. He said I had lain there and shook my entire body, and then suddenly went lifeless. I don't remember anything like that. The doctors examined me and found nothing. They thought I could have possibly suffered a neck injury so they x-rayed my neck but found nothing. They said I was a lucky girl; I could have broken my neck doing something silly like what I did in the park. Needless to say, that was the end of my acrobatic days.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  around October 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident       I knocked myself unconscious doing a back-flip.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was not aware of my body. I was just aware of my mind; my thought process.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt I was alert and conscious although I felt a lot of nothingness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just a kind of humming(?) I don't know how to describe it.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I wasn't aware of passing into this funnel. When I became alert, this is where I was.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The 'funnel'.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt nothing. I didn't have any cares. I just 'was'.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Baptist /catholic

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Baptist /catholic  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Nothing at the time. Now I think I was blessed and I'm thankful for the experience. I had another experience since that time (which I have also submitted) and understand a great deal more.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't remember what people's reactions were at that time. The reactions now are labeled 'creepy', etc.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brenda_e_nde.html