{"name":"Apocryphal New Testament","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1820__hone___apocryphal_new_testament.pdf","mytitle":"Apocryphal New Testament","mylang":"de"}
THE
APOCRYPHAL
NEW TESTAMENT,
BEING ALL
THE G-OSIFET.s, EFIsTT,Es,
AND
OTHER PIE C E S NO W E XTANT,
ATTRIBUTED IN THE FIRST FOUR CENTURIES TO
JESUS CHRIST,
HIS APOSTLES, AND THEIR COMPANIONS,
AND NOT INCLUDED IN
THE NEW TESTAMENT
BY ITS COMPILERS.
TRANS LATED FROM THE ORIGINAL TON GUES, AND NOW
FIRST COLLECTED INTO O N E VOLUME.
3ſunion :
PRINTED FOR WILLIAM HONE,
LU D G A T E H I L L .
1820.
Univ. Library, Univ. Calif., Santa Cruz
Printed by The New Temple Press, la Norbury Crescent, S.W.
BS
2232
AZ.
|320
AFTER the writings contained in the New Testament
were selected from the numerous Gospels and Epistles
then in existence, what became of the Books that were re
jected by the compilers?
This question naturally occurs on every investigation as
to the period when, and the persons by whom, the New
Testament was formed. It has been supposed by many
that the volume was compiled by the first council of Nice,
which, according to Jortin,” originated thus:
Alexander, bishop of Alexandria, and Arius, who was
a presbyter in his diocese, disputed together about the
nature of Christ; and the bishop being displeased at the
notions of Arius, and finding that they were adopted by
other persons, “was very angry.’ He commanded Arius
to come over to his sentiments, and to quit his own : as
if a man could change his opinions as easily as he can
change his coat . He then called a council of war, con
sisting of nearly a hundred bishops, and deposed,
excommunicated, and anathematized Arius, and with him
several ecclesiastics, two of whom were bishops, Alexander
then wrote a circular letter to all bishops, in which he
represents Arius and his partisans as heretics, apostates,
blasphemous enemies of God, full of impudence and
impiety, forerunners of Antichrist, imitators of Judas,
and men whom it was not lawful to salute, or to bid God
* Rem. on Eccl. vol. ii., p. 177.
iv.
speed. There is no reason to doubt of the probity and
sincerity of those who opposed Alexander and the Nicene
Fathers; for what did they get by it besides obloquy
and banishment? Many good men were engaged on
both sides of the controversy. So it was in the fourth
century, and so it hath been ever since. Eusebius of
Nicomedia, and Eusebius the historian, endeavoured to
pacify Alexander, and persuade him to make up the
quarrel; and Constantine sent a letter by the illlustrious
Hosius of Corduba to Alexander and Arius, in which he
reprimanded them both for disturbing the church with
their insignificant disputes. But the affair was gone too
far to be thus composed, and Socrates represents both
sides as equally contentious and refractory. To settle
this and other points, the Nicene council was summoned,
consisting of about three hundred and eighteen bishops,
—a mystical number” of which many profound remarks
have been made. The first thing they did was to quarrel,
and to express their resentments, and to present accusa
tions to the emperor against one another. So say Socrates,
Sozomen, and Rufinus. Theodoret favours his brethren
in this affair, and seems to throw the fault upon the laity.
But the whole story, as it is related by them all, and
even by Theodoret, shows that the bishops accused one
another. The emperor burnt all their libels, and exhorted
them to peace and unity; so that if they had not been
restrained by his authority, and by fear and respect, they
would probably have spent their time in altercations.
* Barnabus, viii. 11, 12, 13.
V.
This council of Nice is one of the most famous and
interesting events presented to us in ecclesiastical history;
and yet, what is surprising, scarcely any part of the
History of the Church has been unfolded with such
negligence, or rather passed over with such rapidity. The
ancient writers are neither agreed with respect to the time
or place in which it was assembled, the number of those
who sat at council, nor the bishop who presided in it.
No authentic acts of its famous sentence have been com
mitted to writing, or at least none have been transmitted
to our time.*
Although it is uncertain whether the books of the New
Testament were declared canonical by the Nicene Council,
or by some other, or when or by whom they were collected
into a volume, it is certaint that they were considered
genuine and authentic, (with a few variations of opinion
as to some of them) by the most early Christian writers;
and that they were selected from various other Gospels
and Epistles, the titles of which are mentioned in the
works of the Fathers and the early historians of the
church.: The books that exist, of those not included in
the canon, are carefully brought together in the present
volume. They naturally assume the title of the Apocry
phal New Testament; and he who possesses this and the
New Testament, has in the two volumes, a collection of
all the historical records relative to Christ and His
Apostles, now in existence, and considered sacred by
Christians during the first four centuries after His birth.
* Mosheim, Eccl. Hist., c. v. § 12.
f See Table II. at the end of this work. : See Table I. at end.
vi.
In a complete collection of the Apocryphal writings
the Apostles' Creed is necessarily included, and as
necessarily given, as it stood in the fourth and until the
sixth century, (from Mr. Justice Bailey's edition of the
Common Prayer Book), without the article of Christ's
Descent into Hell,—an interpolation concerning which the
author of the Preface to the Catalogue of the MSS. of
the King's Library thus expresses himself: “I wish that
the insertion of the article of Christ's Descent into Hell
into the Apostles' Creed could be as well accounted for
as the insertion of the said verse (1 John, v. 7).
* Catalogue of MSS. of the king's library, by David Casly, 4to, in Pref.
p. xxiv. For large particulars of Christ's Descent into Hell, see the
Gospel of Nicodemus, chap. xiii. to xx.
The verse above alluded to by Mr. Casly is 1 John, v. 7. This spu
rious passage, in the authorized version of the New Testament, printed
by the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge and the King's Printers,
and appointed to be read in churches, stands thus. “For there are three
that bear record in Heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost;
and these three are one.” This verse, Mr. Casly says, is now generally
given up ; being in no Greek MS. save one at Berlin, which is discovered
to have been transcribed from the printed Biblia Complutensia; and
another modern one at Dublin, probably translated or corrected from the
Latin Vulgate. It is conjectured that it may have been inserted by the
mistake of a Latin copyist: for the owners of MSS. often wrote glosses
or paraphrases of particular passages between the lines, and ignorant
transcribers sometimes mistook these notes for interlined omissions by
the original scribes, and accordingly in re-copying the MSS. incorporated
these glosses or paraphrases into the body of the text. For instance,
Jerome, in one of his letters, says that an explanatory note which he
himself had made in the margin of his Psalter had been incorporated
by some transcriber into the text; and Dr. Bentley, in the 96th page
of his Epistle, annexed to Malala's Chronicle, has proved Ewa opos
corruvev rm Apašta, in Galatians iv. 25, to be of the same stamp.t
It is scarcely necessary to tell the reader, that in 1516 and 1519
Erasmus published his first and second editions of the Greek Testament,
both which omitted the three heavenly witnesses. That having promised
+ Cat. King's Libr. Pref. p. xxi.
vii.
The best that can be said for it is, that it might possibly
have come in, in like manner, not long before, from a
to insert them in his text, if they were found in a single Greek MS.;
he was soon informed of the existence of such a MS. in England, and
consequently inserted 1 John, v. 7, in his third edition, 1522. , That
this MS., after a profound sleep of two centuries, has at last been found
in the library of Trinity College, Dublin. That the Complutension
edition,” which was not published till 1522, though it professes to be
printed in 1514, has the seventh and eighth verse patched up from
the modern Latin MS., and the final clause of the eighth verse, which
is omitted in its proper place, transferred to the end of the seventh.
That Colinaeus, in 1534, omitted the verse on the faith of MS., That
R. Stephens, in his famous edition of 1550, inserted the verse, and
marked the words ev'rol ovpavot as wanting in seven MSS. That Beza,
suspecting no mistake, concluded that these seven MSS. contained the
rest of the seventh verse, and the eighth with the words ev tº Ynt.”
Sir Isaac Newton wrote a Dissertation upon this passage, wherein he
gave a clear, exact, and comprehensive view of the whole question, and
wherein he says, that when the adversaries of Erasmus had got the
date.” º
The text is not contained in any Greek manuscript which was written
earlier than the fifteenth century. 2. Nor in any Latin manuscript
earlier than the ninth century. 3. It is not found in any of the ancient
versions. 4. It is not cited by any of the Greek ecclesiastical writers,
though, to prove the doctrine of the Trinity, they have cited the words
both before and after this. 5. It is not cited by any of the early Latin
Fathers, even when the subjects upon which they treat would naturally
have led them to appeal to its authority. 6. It is first cited by Vigilius
Tapsensis, a Latin writer of no credit, in the latter end of the fifth
century, and by him it is suspected to have been forged. 7. It has
been admitted as spurious in many editions of the New Testament since
the reformation:—in the two first of Erasmus, in those of Aldus Colinaeus,
Zwinglius, and lately of Griesbach. 8. It was omitted by Luther in his
German Version: in the old English Bibles of Henry VIII., Edward VI,
and Elizabeth, it was printed in small types, or included in brackets:
* Porson's Letters to Travis. Preface.
+ Newton's works by Horsley, 4to, vol v. p. 549.-Bishop Horsley, in his
edition of Sir Isaac Newton's works, has not included several MSS. on theo
logical subjects for the reasons which perhaps induce the nobleman in whose
possession they remain to withold them still from publication. His Lord
ship's judgment in this respect is said to be influenced by a prelate whose no
tions do not accord either with Sir Isaac's opinions of criticism. They are
fairly transcribed, in the illustrious author's own hand-writing, ready for the
press; and it is to be regretted that the production of his luminous mind be
suppressed by any censorship, however respectable.
viii.
gloss or paraphrase, that was at first put in the margin
or between the lines.”
but between the years 1566 and 1580, it began to be printed as it now
stands by whose authority is not known.—See Travis's Letters to Gib
bon, and Porson's to Travis. Also Griesbach's excellent Dissertation on
the Text at the end of his second volume. Archbishop Newcome omits
the text, and the Bishop of Lincoln expresses his conviction that it is
spurious. (Elem. of Theol. vol. ii. p. 90, note.)"
In a sumptuous Latin MS. of the Bible, written so late as the thir
teenth century, formerly belonging to the Capuchin Convent at Montpe
lier, afterwards in the possession of Harley, Earl of Oxford, and now
deposited in the British Museum, the verse of the three heavenly witnesses
is wanting, as appears by the following literal extract from it:
#it tºt qui utilit per aquam (3) gauguintu.
the rpr. Non in aq golum, get in aqua (3) gait
guinem (3) ºpu, ºpt tºt qui testificatur.
quoniam rpt tºt beritag. 69tlouiam tres guilt.
quittstimonium tant in tra. $pr. aqua. (3) gan
guig. Gºt tre; ultum guilt.t
The following Greek and Latin authors HAvº Not QUOTMD THE
TEXT :*
Greek authors:—Irenaeus—Clemens Alexandrinus—Dionysius Alexan
drinus, (or the writer against Paul of Samosata under his name)—
Athanasius—The Synopsis of Scripture—The Synod of Sardica—Epi
phanius—Basil—AlexanderofAlexandria—Gregory Nyssen–Nazianzen,
with his two commentators, Elias Cretensis and Nicetas–Didymus de
Spiritu Sancto–Chrysostome—An author under his name de sancta et
consubstantiali Trinitate—Caesarius–Proclus—The Council of Nice, as
it is represented by Gelasius Cyzicenus—Hyppolytus—Andrias—Six
catenae quoted by Simon—The marginal scholia of three MSS.–
Hesychius—John Damascenus—Oecumenius–Euthymius Zigabenus.
Latin authors:—The author de Baptismo Haereticorum, among Cy
prian's works—Novatian Hilary—Lucifer Calazitanus—Jerome—Augus
tine—Ambrose—Faustinus—Leo Magnus—The author de Promissis—
Eucherius—Facundus—Cerealis–Rusticus—Bede—Gregory—Philastrius
—Arnobius, junior—Pope Eusebius.
It is evident that if the text of the heavenly witnesses had been known
* Improved version of the New Testament, 1808.
+ HARL. Coll. MSS. Cod. 4773. + Porson's Letters to Travis, p. 863.
ix.
By the publication of this volume, the Editor conceives
he has rendered an acceptable service to the theological
student and the ecclesiastical antiquary; he has en
deavoured to render it more gratifying to the reader, and
from the beginning of Christianity, the ancients would have eagerly seized
it, inserted it in their creeds, quoted it repeatedly against the heretics,
and selected it for the brightest ornament of every book that they wrote
upon the subject of the Trinity. In short, if this verse be really genuine,
notwithstanding its absence from all the visible Greek MSS. except two,
one of which awkwardly translates the verse from the Latin, and the
other transcribes it from a printed book; notwithstanding its absence
from all the versions except the vulgate; and even from many of the
best and oldest MSS. of the vulgate; notwithstanding the deep and dead
silence of all the Greek writers down to the thirteenth, and most of the
Latins down to the middle of the eight century; if, in spite of all these
objections, it be still genuine, no part of Scripture whatsoever can be
proved either spurious or genuine; and Satan has been permitted, for
many centuries, miraculously to banish the finest passage in the N.T.
from the eyes and memories of almostall the Christian authors, translators,
and transcribers.”
Sir Isaac Newton observes, “that what the Latins have done to this
Aext (1 John v. 7), the Greeks have done to that of St. Paul (Timothy,
lii. 16.) For by changing o into 6 the abbreviation of 6eos, they now
read, Great is the mystery of Godliness: God manifested in the flesh: whereas
all the churches for the first four or five hundred years, and the authors
of all the ancient versions, Jerome, as well as the rest, read, “Great is
the mystery of godliness which was manifested in the flesh.” Sir Isaac gives
a list of authors, who, he says, “wrote, all of them, in the fourth and
fifth centuries for the Deity of the Son, and incarnation of God; and
some of them largely, and in several tracts; and yet,” he says, “I can
not find that they everallege this text to prove it, excepting that Gregory
Nyssent once urges it, (if the passage crept not into him out of some
marginal annotation). In all the times of the hot and lasting Arian con
troversy, it never came into play; though now these disputes are over,
they that read God made manifest in the flesh, think Sir Isaac says, “one
of the most obvious and pertinent texts for the business.”
There are other interpolations and corruptions of passages in the New
Testament, but the Editor perceives that the few observations he has
hastily collected and thrown together in this note, have already extended
it to undue length, and it must here close.
* Porson's Letters to Travis, 8vo. p. 403.
t Orat. xi. Contra Eunom
X.
more convenient for reference, by arranging the books
into chapters, and dividing the chapters into verses. He
has only to add, that the lover of old literature will here
find the obscure but unquestionable origin of several re
markable relations in the Golden Legend, the Lives of
the Saints, and similar productions, concerning the birth
of the Virgin, her marriage with Joseph, on the budding
of his rod, the nativity of Jesus, the miracles of his In
fancy, his labouring with Joseph at the carpentry trade,
and the actions of his followers. Several of the papal
pageants for the populace, and the monkish mysteries
performed as dramas at Chester, Coventry, Newcastle,
and in other parts of England, are almost verbatim re
presentations of the stories. Many valuable pictures by
the best masters—prints by the early engravers, particu
larly of the Italian and German schools—woodcuts in
early black letter, and black books—and illumination of
missals and monastic MSS.—receive immediate elucida
tion on referring to the Apocryphal New Testament, and
are without explanation from any other source.
THE
ORDER OF ALL THE BOOKS
OF THE
APOCRYPHAL NEW TESTAMENT,
WITH
Their proper Names and Number of Chapters.
MARY hath Chapters
Protevangelion
I. Infancy .
II. Infancy -
Christ and Abgarus
Nicodemus. -
The Apostles' Creed
Laodiceans
Paul and Seneca
Paul and Thecla
I. Corinthians
II. Corinthians .
8 Barnabas hath Chapters.
16 Ephesians.
. 22 || Magnesians
4 | Trallians
2 Romans. -
2 Philadelphians .
Smyrnaeans
Polycarp
Philippians
11 I. Hermas—Visions
24 II. Hermas—Commands.
5 III. Hermas—Similitudes
1
:
PREFACE
TO THE SECOND EDITION.
Although THE ApocrypHAL NEw TESTAMENT was put out without pretension
or ostentatious announcement, or even solicitude for its fate, yet a large Edi
tion has been sold in a few months. The Public demanding another, to this
second Edition a small fragment of the Second Epistle of Clement to the Corin
thians, accidentally omitted, has been added : it forms the fifth chapter of that
Epistle. There is, likewise annexed, a Table of the years wherein all the
Books of the NEw TESTAMENT are stated to have been written : to the “Order
of the Books of the ApocrypHAL NEW TESTAMENT,” the authorities from
whence they have been taken are affixed; and, finally, many errors in the nu.
merous scriptural references subjoined in the notes to the Epistles have been
corrected. These are the only material variations from the first Edition.
It escaped the Editor to notice that the legends of the Koran and the Hindoo
Mythology are considerably connected with this volume. Many of the acts and
miracles ascribed to the Indian God, Creeshna, during his incarnation, are pre
cisely the same with those attributed to Christin his infancy, by the Apocryphal
Gospels, and are largely particularised by the Rev. Thomas Maurice in his
learned History of Hindostan.
Reference to the preceding Preface will leave little doubt that the Apocryphal
writings formed an interesting portion of the lay, as well as the monkish
literature of our forefathers. There is a Translation of the Gospel of Nicodemus
almost coeval with the origin of printing in England; (a) and ancient MSS. of
the Gospels of the Infancy are still extant in the Welsh language under the
title of Mabinogi Jesu Grist.
(a) It was printed, in quarto, first by &pmbpm tie &orut in 1509; next by
John 5:#ot in 1525; by the same printer subsequently; and several times after
wards.
PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. xiii.
Concerning any genuineness of any portion of the work, the Editor has not
offered an opinion, nor is it necessary that he should. The brief notice at the
head of each Gospel directs the reader to its source, and will assist him to inquire
further, and form an opinion for himself. Yet respecting the Epistles, which
commence at page 91, and occupy the remaining two-thirds of the volume, the
Editor would call attention to Archbishop Wake's testimony. The pious and
learned Prelate says, that these Epistles (a) are a full and perfect collection of “all
the genuine writings that remainto us of the Apostolic Fathers, and carry on the
antiquity of the Church from the time of the Holy Scriptures of the New Testa
ment to about a hundred and fifty years after Christ; that except the Holy
Scriptures, there is nothing remaining of the truly genuine Christian antiquity
more early; (b) that they contain all that can with any certainty be depended
upon of the most Primitive Fathers, (c) who had not only the advantage of
living in the apostolical times, of hearing the Holy Apostles, and conversing
with them, but were most of them persons of a very eminent character in the
church too: (d) that we cannot with any reason doubt of what they deliver to
us as the Gospel of Christ, but ought to receive it, if not with equal veneration,
yet but a little less respect than we do the Sacred Writings of those who were
their masters and instructors :” and, “if” says the Archbishop, (who trans
lated these Epistles), (e) “it shall be asked how I came to choose the drudgery
of a translator, rather than the more ingenious part of publishing somewhat of
my own composing, it was, in short, this; because I hoped that such writings
as these would find a more general and unprejudiced acceptance with all sorts
of men than anything that could be written by any one now living.”
As a literary curiosity, the work has attracted much notice; as throwing a
light upon the arts of design and engraving, it has already been useful to the
painter, and the collector of pictures and prints; and, as relating to theology,
it has induced various speculations and inquiry.
But the Editor has been charged with expressing too little veneration for the
councils of the Church. He feels none. It is true that respecting the three
hundred Bishops assembled at the council of Nice, the Emperor Constantine (f)
says, that what was approved by these Bishops could be nothing less than the
determination of God himself; since the Holy Spirit residing in such great and
worthy souls, unfolded to them the divine will. (g) Yet Sabinus, the Bishop of
Heraclea, affirms, that, “excepting Constantine himself, and Eusebius Pamphi.
lus, they were a set of illiterate simple creatures, that understood nothing;” and
Pappus seems to have estimated them very low, for in his Synodicon to that
council, he tells us, that having “promiscuously put all the books that were re.
(a) *; Wake's Apostolical Fathers, Bagster's Edition, 8vo, 1817, Prelim. Disc.
120.
ofalº was. Apostolia rather, Bag-ter, Edition, 8vo, Prim. Due 2 la
(c) p. És. (d) p. 128.
(a) p. 155. (f) Socrates, Schol. Eccl. Hist. b. i. 9 (g) Ibid c. 9.
xlW. PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION.
ferred to the council for determination, under the communion table in a church,
they besought the Lord that the inspired writings might get upon the table
while the spurious ones remained underneath, and that it happened accordingly.”
A commentator (a) on this legend suggests that nothing less than such a sight
could sanctify that fiery zeal which breathes throughout an edict published by
Constantine, in which he decrees that all the writings of Arius should be burned
and that any person concealing any writing composed by him, and not immedi
ately producing it, and committing it to the flames, should be punished with
death. (b) Let us, with the illustrious Jortin, (c) consider a council called, and
presided over by this Barbarian Founder of the church militant : by what
various motives the various Bishops may have been influenced; as by reverence
to the Emperor or to his counsellors and favourites, his slaves and eunuchs; by
the fear of offending some great prelate, as a Bishop of Rome or of Alexandria,
who had itin his power to insult, vex, and plague all the bishops within and with
out his jurisdiction; by the dread of passing for heretics, and of being calum
niated, reviled, hated, anathematised, excommunicated, imprisoned, banished,
fined, beggared, starved, if they refused to submit; by compliance with some
active leading and imperious spirits; by a deference to the majority; by a love
of dictating and domineering, of applause and respect; by vanity and ambition;
by a total ignorance of the question in debate, or a total indifference about it; by
private friendships; by enmity and resentment; by old prejudices; by hopes
of gain; by an indolent disposition; by good nature; by the fatigue of attend.
ing, and a desire to be at home; by the love of peace and quiet; and a hatred
of contention, &c. (d) Whosoever takes these things into due consideration
will not be disposed to pay a blind deference to the authority of general coun
cils but will rather be inclined to judge that “the council held by the Apostles
at Jerusalem was the first and the last in which the Holy Spirit may be affirmed
to have presided.” (e)
(a) Mace's N. Test., p. 875. (b) Socrates, Schol. Eccl. Hist. b. 1. c. 9.
c) Rem. on Eccl. Hist. vol. ii. p. 177.
d) These considerations are more or less natural on becoming acquainted with
the proceedings of every council, from that of Nice to that of Trent, in the year
1545, which, Father Paul says, was for divers ends and by divers means, procured
and hastened, hindered and deferred, for two and twenty years; and, for eighteeen
years more, was sometimes assembled and sometimes dissolved. Brent, a trans
lator of Paul's History of that Council says, “it would be infinite to relate the
stratagems the bishops of Rome used to divert the council before it began, their
postings to and fro, to hinder the proposing of those things which they thought
would diminish their profit or pull down their pride: and their policies to enthral
the prelates, and to procure a majority of voices.”
It is stated by Guicciardini, that, “as the priests were raised step by step to
earthly power, they cared less and less for religious precepts. Using their spiri
tual only as an instrument of their temporal authority, their business was no more
sanctity of life, increase of religion, and love and charity towards their neighbours
—but fomenting wars among Christians, and employing all arts and snares to scrape
money together, and making new laws against the people. Hence they were no
longer respected, although, by the powerful name of religion, they maintained
their authority, being helped therein,” says Guicciardini, “by the faculty which
they have of gratifying princes.”—Guicciardini's Hist. b. **
(c) Jortin's Rem. on. Eccl. Hist. vol ii p. 177.
PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. XV.
ln accommodation to this opinion, the Church of England compels her clergy
to subscribe to the following among the thirty-nine “Articles of Religion.” (a)
“When general councils be gathered together, forasmuch as they be an assein
bly of men, whereof all be not governed with the spirit and will of God they
may err, and sometimes have erred, even in things pertaining unto God; where
fore things ordained by them as necessary to salvation have neither strength
nor authority, unless it may be declared that they be taken out of the Holy
Scriptures.”
After eighteen centuries of bloodshed and cruelties perpetrated in the name
of christianity, it is gradually emerging from the mystifying subtleties of fathers
councils and hierarchies, and the encumbering edicts of soldier-kings and papal
decretals. Charmed by the loveliness of its primitive simplicity, every sincere
human heart will become a temple for its habitation, and every man become a
priest into himself. Thus, and thus only, will be established the religion of
Him, who, having the same interest with ourselves in the welfare of mankind,
left us, for the rule of our happiness, the sum and substance of his code of
peace and good will—“Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye
even so to them.”
By some persons of the multitude, commodly known by the name of Chris
tians, and who profess to suppose they do God service by calling themselves so,
the Editor has been attacked with a maligmity and fury that would have graced
the age of Mary and Elizabeth, when Catholics put to death Protestants, and
Protestants put to death Catholics, for the sake of him who commanded man.
kind to love one another. To these assailants, he owes no explanation; to the
craft of disingenuous criticism, he offers no reply; to the bolt of the Bigot, and
the shaft of the Shrinemaker, he scarcely condescends the opposition of a smile.
(a) Art. xxi.
ORDER OF ALL THE BOOKS OF THE APOCRYP HAL NEW TESTAMENT.
No.of Authorities. S lso th horiti
Names §: Page | *:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::**
Mary hath . - - 8 17 In the works of St. Jerome, a Father of
the Church, who died A.D. 420. -
Protevangelion . - 16 24 Postellus brought the MS. from the Le
vant, translated it into Latin, and caused
it to be printed at Zurich, in 1552. -
I. Infancy . - - 22 38 Received by the Gnostics, a set of Chris
tians in the second Century, and trans
lated into English by Mr. Henry Sike,
Oriental Professor at Cambridge, in 1697.
II. Infancy . - - 4 60 Printed by Professor Cotelerius, in anote
tohis works of the Apostolic Fathers, from
a MS.in the King of France's Library, No.
2279, and Bishop of Caesarea, A.D. 815.
Christ and Abgarus - 2 62 Preserved by Eusebius, one of the Coun
cil of Nice in his Ecclesiastical History,
Book I. chap. 13.
Nicodemus . - - 22 63 Published by Professor Grynaeus,in the
Apostles' Creed in its Orthodoxographia, 1555, tom. ii. p. 643.
ancient state - - 1 91 Without the articles of Christ's Descent
into Hell and the Communion of Saints. See
itthus handed down in Mr.Justice Bailey's
Edition of the Book of Common Prayer,
8vo, 1818, p. 9, note. Also in Bingham's
| Antiquities of the Christian Church,folio,
1726, B. 10. c. 4. s. 12.
In the Book of Common Prayer of the
Church of England.
Laodiceans . - - l 94 | From Ancient MSS. in the Sorbonne and
the Library of Joannes a Wiridario at
Padua. See also Poole's Annotations on
Col. iv. 16. and Harl. MSS. Cod. 1212.
Paul and Seneca . - 14 95 || Jerome ranks Seneca on account of these
Epistles among the holy writers of the
Church. They are preserved by Sixtus
Senensis, in his Bibliotheque, p. 89, 90.
Paul and Thecla . - 11 99 From the Greek MS. in the Bodleian
Library, copied by Dr. Mills, and trans
mitted to Dr. Grabe, who edited and
printed it in his Specilegium.
Apostles' Creed in its
present state. - - 1 93
I. Corinthians - - 24 111 These are “The GENUINE EPISTLEs of
II. Corinthians . - 5 | 188 the Apostolic Fathers: being, together with
Barnabas 15 143 the Holy Scriptures of the NEw TESTAMENT,
Ephesians 4 163 a complete collection of the most primitive An
Magnesians • 4 | 169 tiquity for about a hundred and fifty years
Trallians 3 172 after CHRist. Translated and published with
Romans. 3 175 a large preliminary discourse relating to the
Philadelphians 8 || 179 several Treatises by the most Reverend
Smyrnaeans . 3 182 | Father in God, William (WAKE) Lord
Polycarp 3 186 Bishop of Lincoln," afterwards Lord Arch
Phillippians . - 4 189 bishop of Canterbury. The authorities and
I. Hermas–Visions . 4 194 proofs adduced by this erudite and honest
II. Hermas–Commands 12 209 prelate will be found in great number in
III. Hermas — Simili- the introduction and discourses to the
tudes. - 225 | Edition of the Archbishop's Translation
of these Epistles, published in 1817, by
Mr. BAGSTER, Paternoster Row. -
1O
Nore.—Column 1 contains the proper names of the Books; col. 2 the No. of
chapters in each; col. 3 the page whereon each Book commences; col. 4
the authorities for each briefly stated.
THE
%pocrppijal Dem Cſestament.
The GOSPEL of the BIRTH OF MARY.
[In the primitive ages there was a Gospel extant bearing this name,
attributed to St. Matthew, and received as genuine and authentic by
several of the ancient Christian sects. It is to be found in the works
of Jerome, a Father of the Church, who flourished in the fourth
century, from whence the present translation is made. His con
temporaries, º:Bishop of Salamis, and Austin, also mention
a Gospel under this title. The ancient copies different from Jerome's,
for from one of them the learned Faustus, a native of Britain, who
became Bishop of Riez, in Provence, endeavoured to prove that
Christ was not the Son of God till after his baptism; and that he
was not of the house of David and tribe of Judah, because, according
to the Gospel he cited, the Virgin herself was not of this tribe, but
of the tribe of Levi ; her father being a priest of the name of
Joachini. It was likewise from this ãº that the sect of the
Collyridians established the worship and offering of manchet bread
and cracknels, or fine wafers, as sacrifices to Mary, whom they ima
ined to have been born of a Virgin, as Christ is related in the
8: Gospel to have been born of her. Epiphanius likewise cites
a passage concerning the death of Zacharias, which is not in
Jerome's copy, viz. “That it was the occasion of the death of
Zacharias in the temple, that when he had seen a vision, he, through
surprise, was willing to disclose it, and his mouth was stopped.
That which he saw was at the time of his offering incense, and it was a
man standing in the form of an ass. When he was gone out, and
had a mind to speak thus to the people, Woe unto you, whom do ye
worship P he who had appeared to him in the temple took away tº:
use of his speech. Afterwards when he recovered it, and was able
to speak, he declared this to the Jews, and they slew him. They
add (viz. the Gnostics in this book), that on this very account the
high-priest was appointed by their lawgiver (by &; i. Moses) to
carry, little bells, that whensoever he went into the temple to
sacrifice, he, whom the jº.hearing the noise of the bells,
ºhave time enough to hide himself, and not be caught in that
ugly shape and figure."—The principal, part of this Gospel is con:
tained in the Protevangelion of James, which follows next in order.]
CHAP. I. the royal raceand family of David,
Y. was born in the city of Nazareth
d : tº:.º,#!". º: and educated at Jerusalem, in th.
to :*: to#.ſ: %the dedi. temple of the Lord.
eation: 9. Isaachar the high priest re- 2 Her father's name was Joa
proaches Joachim for being childless. chim, and her mother's Anna.
fTVHE blessed and ever glorious | The family of her father was of
Virgin Mary, sprung from | Galilee and the city of Nazareth.
3 17
Mary's purents barren.
The family of her mother was of
Bethlehem.
3 Their lives were plain and
right in the sight of the Lord,
º and faultless before men.
or they aivided all their sub
stance into three parts:
4 One of which they devoted
to the temple and officers of the
temple; another they distributed
among strangers, and persons in
poor circumstances; and the third
they reserved for themselves and
the uses of their own family.
5 In this manner they lived for
about twenty years chastely, in
the favour of God, and the esteem
of men, without any children.
6 Butthey vowed,ifGodshould
favour them with any issue, they
would devote it to the service of
the Lord ; on which account they
went at every feast in the year to
the temple of the Lord.”
7 "And it came to pass, that
when the feast of the dedication
drew near, Joachim, with some
others of his tribe, went up to
Jerusalem, and at that time, Issa
char was high-priest ;
8 Who, when he saw Joachim
along with the rest of his neigh
bours, bringing his offering, des
pised both him and his offerings,
and asked him,
9 Why he, who had no chil
dren, would presume to appear
among those who had Î Adding,
that his offerings could never be
acceptableto God, who wasjudged
by him unworthy to have chil
dren; the Scripture having said,
Cursed is every one who shall not
beget a male in Israel.
10 He further said, that he
ought first to be free from that
curse by begetting some issue,
and then come with his offerings
into the presence of God.
'Sam, i. 6, 7, &c.
MARY. An Angel appears, and
11 Put Joachim being much
confounded with the shame of
such reproach, retired to the shop
herds who were with the cattle in
their pastures;
12 For he was not inclined to
return home, lest his neighbours,
who were present and heard all
this from the high-priest, should
publicly reproach him in the same
IIlāIlller.
CHAP. II.
1 An angel appears to Joachim. 9 and
informs him that Anna shall conceive
and bring forth a daughter, who shall
be called Mary, 11 be brought up in the
temple, 12 and while yet a virgin, in
a way unparalleled, bring forth the
Son of God: 13 gives him s sign,
14 and departs.
UT when he had been there
for some time, on a certain
day when he was alone, the angel
of the Lord stood by him with a
prodigious light.
2 To whom, being troubled at
the appearance, the angel who
had appeared to him,endeavouring
to compose him said:
3 Be not afraid, Joachim, nor
troubled at the sight of me, for 1
am an angel of the Lord sent by
him to you, that I might inform
you, that your prayers are heard,
and your alms ascended in the
sight of God.”
4 For he hath surely seen your
shame, and heard you unjustly
reproached for not having chil
dren: for God is the avenger of
sin, and not of nature ;
5 And so when he shuts the
womb of any Ierson, he does it
for this reason, that he may in a
more wonderful manner againopen
it, and that which is born appear
to be not the product of lust, but
the gift of God.
6 For the first mother of your
nation Sarah, was she not barred
* Acts, x 4.
| 8
promises them a child.
even till her eightieth year: And
yet even in the end of her old age
brought forth Isaac, in whom the
promise was made of a blessing to
all nations."
7 Rachel also, so much in fa
vour with God, and beloved so
much by holy Jacob, continued
barren for a long time, yet after
wards was the mother of Joseph,
who was not only governor of
Egypt, but delivered many nations
from perishing with hunger.”
8 Who among the judges was
more valiant than Samson, or
more holy than Samuel! And yet
both their mothers were barren.”
9 But if reason will not con
vince you of the truth of my
words, that there are frequent
conceptions in advanced years,
and that those who were barren
have brought forth to their great
surprise; therefore Anna your
wife shall bring you a daughter,
and you shall call her name Mary;
10 She shall, according to your
vow, be devoted to the Lord from
her infancy, and be filled with the
Holy Ghost from her mother's
womb ;”
11 She shall neither eat nor
drink anything which is unclean,
nor shall her conversation be
withoutamong the common people,
but in the temple of the Lord;
that so she may not fall under any
slander or suspicion of what is bad.
12 So in the process of her
years, as she shall be in a mira
culous 1.lanner born of one that
was barren, so she shall, while yet
a virgin, in a way unparalleled,
bring forth the Son of the most
High God, who shall, be called
Jesus, and, according to the sig
nification of his name, be the
Saviour of all nations.”
Gen. xvi. 2, &c. and xviii. 10, &c.
"Judg. xiii. 2. and l. Sam. 6, &c.
xiv. 26. " Luke i. 28.
MARY.
* Luke i. 15.
* Luke ii. 37.
Anna conceives.
13 And this shall be a sign to
you of the things which I declare,
namely, when you come to the
golden gate of Jerusalem, you
shall there meet your wife Anna,
who being very much troubled
that you returned no sooner, shall
then rejoice to see you.
14 When the angel had said
this he departed from him.
CHAP. III.
1 The angel appears to Anna ; 2 tells
her a daughter shall be born unto her,
3 devoted to the service of the Lord
in the temple, 5, who, being a virgin
and not knowing man, shall bring
forth the Lord, 6 and gives her a sign
therefore. 8 Joachim and Anna meet
and rejoice, 10 and praise the Lord.
11 Anna conceives, and brings forth a
daughter called Mary. -
FTERWARDS the angel ap
peared to Anna his wife
Saying ; Fear not, neither think
that which you see is a spirit:"
2 For I am that angel who hath
offered up your prayers and alms
before God, and am now sent to
you, that I may inform you, that
a daughter will be born unto you,
who shall be called Mary, and
shall be blessed above all women.”
3 She shall be, immediately
upon her birth, full of the grace
of the Lord, and shall continue
during the three years of her
weaning in her father's house, and
afterwards, being devoted to the
service of the Lord, shall not
depart from the temple, till she
arrive to years of discretion.
4 In a word, she shall there
serve the Lord night and day in
fasting and prayer,” shall abstain
from every unclean thing, and
never know any man;
5 But, being an unparalleled
instance without any pollution or
* Gen. xxx. 1–22. and xli. 1, &c.
* Matth. i. 21. * Matth.
19
Mury born.
defilement, and a virgin not know
ing any man, shall bring forth a
son, and a maid shall bring forth
the Lord, who both by his grace
and name and works, shall be the
Saviour of the world.
6 Arise therefore, and go up to
Jerusalem, and when you shall
some to that which is called the
golden gate (because it is gilt
with gold), as a sign of what I
have told you, you shall meet your
husband, for whose safety you
have been so much concerned.
7 When therefore you find
these things thus accomplished,
believe that all the rest which I
have told you, shall also un
doubtedly be accomplished.
8 "I According therefore to the
command of the angel, both of
them left the places where they
were, and when they came to the
place specified in the angel's pre
diction, they met each other.
9 Then, rejoicing at each other's
vision, and being fully satisfied
in the promise of a child, they
gave due thanks to the Lord, who
exalts the humble.
10 After having praised the
Lord, they returned home, and
lived in a cheerful and assured ex
pectation of the promise of God.
11 *ſſ So Anna conceived, and
brought forth a daughter, and,
according to the angel's com
mand, the parents did call her
name Mary.
CHAP. IV.
1 Mary brought to the temple at three
years old. 6 Ascends the stairs of
the temple by miracle. 8 Her
parents sacrifice and return home.
ND when three years were
expired, and the time of her
weaning complete, they brought
the Virgin to the temple of the
Lord with offerings.
MARY. Ministered unto by Angels.
2 And there were about the
temple, according to the fifteen
Psalms of degrees,' fifteen stairs
to ascend.
3 For the temple being built in
a mountain, the altar of burnt
offering, which was without, could
not be come near but by stairs;
4 The parents of the blessed
Virgin and infant Mary put her
upon one of these stairs;
5 But while they were putting
off their clothes, in which they
had travelled, and according to
custom putting on some that were
more neat and clean,
6 In the mean time the Virgin
of the Lord in such a manner
went up all the stairs one after
another, without the help of any
to lead or lift her, that any
one would have judged from
hence that she was of perfect
age.
7 Thus the Lord did, in the in
fancy of his Virgin, work this
extraordinary work, and evidence
by this miracle how great she was
like to be hereafter.
8 But the parents having of.
fered up their sacrifice, according
to the custom of the law, and per
fected their vow, left the Virgin
with other virgins in the apart
ments of the temple, who were to
be brought up there, and they
returned home.
CHAP. W.
2 Mary ministered unto by angels. 4
The high-priest orders all virgins of
fourteen years old to quit the temple
and endeavour to be married. 5
Mary refuses, 6 having vowed her
virginity to the Lord. 7 The high
iest commands a meeting of the
chief persons of Jerusalem, ll who
seek the Lord for counsel in the
matter. 13 A voice from the merey
Those Psalms are from the 120th to the 134th, including both.
20
Her vow of virginity.
seat.
ordering all the unmarried men of the
house of David to bring their rods to
the altar, 17 that his rod which
should flower, and on which the Spirit
of God should sit, should betroth the
Virgin.
UT the Virgin of the Lord, as
she advanced in years, in
creased also in perfections, and
according to the saying of the
Psalmist, her father and mother
forsook her, but the Lord took
care of her.
2 For she every day had the
conversation of angels, and every
day received visitors from God,
which preserved her from all sorts
of evil, and caused her to abound
with all good things;
3 So that when at length she
arrived to her fourteenth year, as
the wicked could not lay any thing
to her charge worthy of reproof,
so all good persons, who were
acquainted with her, admired her
life and conversation,
4 At that time the high-priest
made a public order. That all the
virgins who hadpublicsettlements
in the temple, and were come to
this age, should return home, and,
as they were now of a proper
ulaturity, should, according to the
custom of theircountry, endeavour
to be married.
5 To which command, though
alltheothervirginsreadilyyielded
obedience, Mary the Virgin of the
Lord alone answered, that she
could not comply with it.
6 Assigning these reasons, that
both she and her parents had
devoted her to the service of the
Lord; and besides, that she had
vowed virginity to the Lord,
which vow she was resolved never
15 The high-priest obeys it by ;
MARY. The high-priest in difficulty.
to break through by lying with a
Jºnan.
7 The high priest being hereby
brought into a difficulty,
8 Seeing he durst neither on
the one hand dissolve the vow,
and disobey the Scripture, which
says, Wow and pay,"
9 Nor on the other hand intro
uuce a custom, to which the
people were strangers,commanded,
10 That at the approaching
feast all the principal persons
both of Jerusalem and the neigh
bouring places should meet to
gether, that he might have their
advice, how he had best proceed
in so difficult a case.
11 Whenthey were accordingly
met, they unanimously agreed to
seek the Lord, and ask counsel
from him on this matter.”
12 And when they were all en
ged in prayer, the high-priest,
according to the usual way, went
to consult God.
13 And immediately there was
a voice from the ark, and the
mercy seat, which all present
heard, that it must be enquired or
sought out by a prophecy of Isaiah
to whºm the Virgin should be
given and be betrothed;
14 For Isaiah saith, there shall
come forth a rod out of the stem
of Jesse, and a flower shall spring
out of its root,
15 And the Spirit of the Lord
shall rest upon him, the Spirit of
Wisdom and Understanding, the
Spirit of Counsel and Might, the
Spirit of Knowledge and Piety,
and the Spirit of the fear of the
Lord shall fill him.
16 Then, according to this pro
phecy, he appointed, that all the
men of the house and family of
1 Eccles. v. 4, 5, 6; and Psalm lxxvi. 11... - ---
2 Num. xxvii. 21, compared with Exod. xxviii. 30; Lev. viii. 8; Deut.
xxxiii. 8; Ezra ii. 63; Nehem. vii. 65.
21
The Virgin betrothed.
David, who were marriageable
and not married, should bling
their several rods to the altar,
17 And out of whatsoever per
son's rod after it was brought, a
flower should bud forth, and on
thetop of it the Spirit of the Lord
should sit in the a pearance of a
dove, he should be the man to
whom the Virgin should be given
and be betrothed.
CTIAP. WL
1 Joseph draws back his rod. 5 The
dove pitches on it. He betroths
Mary and returns to Bethlehem. 7
Mary returns to her parents' house at
Galilee."
MONG the rest there was a
man named Joseph, of the
house and family of David, and a
person very far advanced in years,
who drew back his rod, when
every one besides presented his.
2 So that when nothing ap
peared agreeable to the heavenly
voice, the high-priest judged it
proper to consult God again,
3 Who answered that he to
whom the Virgin was to be be
trothed was the only person of
those who were brought together,
who had not brought his rod.
4 Joseph therefore was be
trayed.
5 For, when he did bring his
rod, and a dove coming from
Heaven pitched upon the top of
it, every one plainly saw, that the
Virgin was to be betrothed to
him :
monies of betrothing being over,
he returned to his own city of
Bethlehem, to set his house in
order, and make the needful pro
visions for the marriage.
7 But the Virgin of the Lord,
MARY.
6 Accordingly, the usual cere
Angel Gabriel salutes Mary
the same age, who had been
weaned at the same time, and
who had been appointed to attend
her by the priest, returned to her
parents' house in Galilee.
CHAP. VII.
7 The salutation of the Virgin by Gabriel,
who explains to her that she shall con
ceive, twithout lying with a man, while a
Virgin, 19 by the Holy Ghost coming
upon her without the heats of lust. 21
She submits.
OW at this time of her first
coming into Galilee, the
angel Gabriel was sent to her
from God, to declare to her the
conception of our Saviour, and
the manner and way of her con
ceiving him.
2. Accordingly going into her,
he filled the chamber where she
was with a prodigious light, and
in a most courteous manner
saluting her, he said,
3 Hail, Mary 1 Virgin of the
Lord most acceptable ! O Virgin
full of Grace | The Lord is with
you, you are blessed above all
women, you are blessed above all
men, that have been hitherto
born."
4 But the Virgin, who had
before been well acquainted with
the countenances of angels, and
to whom such light from heaven
was no uncommon thing,
5 Was neither terrified with the
vision of the angel, nor astonished
at the greatness of the light, but
only troubled about the angel's
words:
6 And began to consider what
soextraordinaryasalutation should
mean, what it did portend, or what
sort of end it would have.” -
7 To this thought the angel,
divinely inspired, replies;
8 Fear not, Mary, as though
Mary, with seven other virgins of II intended anything inconsistent
* Luke i. 28, * Luke i. 29.
22
And tells her she shall conceive. MAR Y.
with your chastity in this salu
tation ;
9 For you have found favour
with the Lord, because you made
virginity your choice.
10 Therefore while you are a
Virgin, you shall conceive without
sin, and bring forth a son.
11 He shall be great, because
he shall reign from sea to sea, and
from the rivers even to the ends
of the earth."
12 And he shall be called the
Son of the Highest ; for he who is
born in a mean state on earth
reigns in an exalted one in heaven.
13 And the Lord shall give him
the throne of his father David, and
he shall reign over the house of
Jacob for ever, and ofhis kingdom
there shall be no end.
14 For he is the King of Kings,
and Lord of Lords, and his throne
is for ever and ever.
15 To this discourse of the
angel the Virgin replied not, as
though she were unbelieving, but
willing to know the manner of it.
16 She said, How can that be?
For seeing, according to my vow,
I have never known any man, how
can I bear a child without the
addition of a man's seed.
17 To this the angel replied
and said, Think not, Mary, that
you shall conceive in the ordinary
way.
18 For, without lying with a
inan, while a Virgin, you shall
conceive ; while a Virgin, you
shall bring forth; and while a
Virgin shall give suck.
19 For the Holy Ghost shall
come upon you, and the power of
the Most High shall overshadow
you, without any of the heats of
lust.
20 So that which shall be born
wf you shall be only holy, because
* Luke i. 31, &c.
She is married to Joseph.
it only is conceived without sin,
and being born, shall be called the
Son of God.
21 Then Mary stretching forth
her hands, and lifting her eyes to
heaven, said, Behold the hand
maid of the Lord ' Let it be unto
me according to thy word. *
CHAP. VIII.
1 Joseph returns to Galilee to marry the
Virgin he had betrothed. 4 perceives she
is with child, 5 is uneasy, 7 purposes
toput her away privily, 8 is told by the
angel of the Lord it is not the work of
man but the Holy Ghost, 12 Marries
her, but keeps chaste, 13 removes with
her to Bethlehem, 15 where she brings
forth Christ.
OSEPH therefore went from
Judaea to Galilee, with in
tention to marry the Virgin who
was betrothed to him :
2 For it was now near three
months since she was betrothed
to him.
3. At length it plainly appeared
she was with child, and it could
not be hid from Joseph :
4 For going to the Virgin in a
free manner, as one espoused, and
talking familiarly with her, he
perceived her to be with child.
5 And thereupon began to be
uneasy and doubtful, not knowing
what course it would be best to
take;
6 For being a just man, he was
not willing to expose her, nor
defame her by the suspicion of
being a whore, since he was a
pious man.
7. He purposed therefore pri.
vately to put an end to their
agreement, and as privately to
send her away.
8 But while he was meditating
these things, *behold the angel of
the Lord appeared to him in his
* Luke i. 38. * Matt. i. 19.
23
Joachim's offering. THE PROTEVANGELION.
sleep, and said Joseph, son of
David, fear not ;
9 Be not willing to entertain
any suspicion of the Virgin's
being guilty of fornication, or to
think any thing amiss of her,
neither be afraid to take her to
wife;
10 For that which is begotten
in her and now distresses your
mind, is not the work of man, but
the Holy Ghost.
11 For she of all women is that
only Virgin who shall bring forth
the Son of God, and you shall call
his name Jesus, that is, Saviour:
for he will save his people from
their sins.
12 Josephthereupon, according
in the temple.
to the command of the angel,
married the Virgin, and did
not know her, but kept her in
chastity.
13 And now the ninth month
from her conception drew near,
when Joseph took his wife and
what other things were necessary
to Bethlehem, the city from
whence he came.
14 And it came to pass, while
they were there, the days were
fulfilled for her bringing forth.
15 And she brought forth her
first-born son, as the holy Evan
gelists have taught, even our Lord
Jesus Christ, who with the Father
Son, and Holy Ghost, lives and
reigns to everlasting ages.
The PROTEVANGELION ; or, An Historical Account of the
BIRTH of CHRIST, and the perpetual VIRGIN MARY,
his Mother, by JAMES THE LESSER, Cousin and Brother of
the Lord Jesus, chief Apostle and first Bishop of the Christians
in Jerusalem.
[This Gospel is ascribed to James. The allusions to it in the ancient
Fathers are frequent, and their expressions indicate that it had
obtained a very general credit in the Christian world. The con
troversies founded upon it chiefly relate to the age of Joseph at the
birth of Christ, and to his being a widower with children, before his
imarriage with the Virgin. It seems material to remark, that the
legends of the latter ages affirm the virginity of Joseph, notwith
standing Epiphanius, Hilary, Chrysostom, Cyril, Euthymius, The
phylact, Occumenius, and indeed all the Latin Fathers till Ambrose,
and the Greek Fathers afterwards, maintain the opinions ofJoseph's
age and family, founded upon their belief in the authenticity of
this book. It is, supposed to have been originally composed in
Hebrew. Postellus brought the MS. of this Gospel #. the
Levant, translated it into Latin, and sent it to Oporimus, a printer
at Basil, where Bibliander, a Protestant Divine, and the Professor
of Divinity at Zurich, caused it to be printed in 1552. Postellus
asserts that it was publicly read as canonical in the eastern churches
they making no doubt that James was the author of it. It is, never
theless, considered apocryphal by some of the most learned divines
in the Protestant and Catholic churches.]
N the history of the twelve
l CHAP. L. tribes of Israel we read there
Joachim, a rich man, 2 offers to the was a certain person called Jo
Lord, 3 is opposed by Iteuben the high- p at
- - chim, who being very rich, made
priest, because he has not begotten issue > :-e >
in Israel, ºr... inºidermes, double' offerings to the Lord
and fasts forty days and forty nights. 'God, having made this resolution:
*That is, gave as much more as he was obliged to give.
24
rejected for his
my substanceshall be forthe benefit
of the whole people, and that I
ruay find mercy from the Lord God
for the forgiveness of my sins.
2. But at a certain great feast
of the Lord, when the children of
Israel offered their gifts, and
Joachim also offered his, Reuben
the high-priest opposed him, say
ing it is not lawful for thee to
offer thy gifts, seeing thou hast
not begot any issue in Israel.
3. At this Joachim being con
cerned very much, went away to
consult the registries of the twelve
tribes, to see whether he was the
only person who had begot no
issue.
4 But upon enquiry he found
that all the righteous had raised
up seed in Israel:
5 Then he called to mind the
patriarch Abraham, How that God
in the end of his life had given
him his son Isaac ; upon which
he was exceedingly distressed,
and would not be seen by his
wife :
6 But retired into the wilder
ness, and fixed his tent there, and
fasted forty days and forty nights,
saying to himself,
7 Iwillnot go down eithertoeat
ordrink, till the Lordmy Godshall
look down upon me, but prayer
shall be my meat and drink."
CHAP. II.
1 Anna, the wife of Joachim, mourns her
barrenness, 6 is reproached with it by
Judith her maid, 9 sits under a laurel
tree and prays to the Lord.
N the meantime his wife Anna
was distressed and perplexed
on a double account, and said I
willmourn both formy widowhood
and my barrenness.
THE PROTEVANGELION. barrenness.
2 Then drew near a great feast
of the Lord, and Judith her maid
said, How long will you thus
afflict your soul? The feast of the
Lord is now come, when it is un
lawful for any one to mourn.
3 Take therefore this hood
which was given by one who
makes such things, for it is not fit
that I, who am a servant should
wear it, but it well suits a person
of your greater character.
4 But Anna replied, Depart
from me, I am not used to such
things; besides, the Lord hath
greatly humbled me.
5 I fear some ill-designing per
son hath given thee this, and thou
art come to pollute me with my sin.
6 Then Judith her maid an
swered, what evil shall I wish you
when you will not hearken to me !
7 I cannot wish you a greater
curse than you are under, in that
God hath shut up your womb, that
you should not be a mother in
Israel.
8 At this Annawas exceedingly
troubled, and having on her wed
ding garment, went about three
o'clock in the afternoon to walk
in her garden.
9 And she saw a laurel-tree,
and sat under it, and prayed unto
the Lord, saying,
10 O God of my fathers, bless
me and regard my prayer as thou
didst bless the womb of Sarah,
and gavest her a son Isaac.”
CHAP. III.
1 Anna perceiving a sparrow's nest in the
laurels bemoans her barrenness
ND as she was looking to
wards heavenshe perceived
a sparrow's nest in the laurel,
2 And mourning within herself,
1 In imitation of the forty days and nights fast of Moses,recorded Exod.
xxiv. 11, xxxiv. 28; Deut. ix. 9; of Elijah, 1 Kings, xix. 8; and Christ's.
Matt. iv. 2. 2 Gen. xxi. 2.
4 25
Angels foretell
she said, Wo is me, who begat
me? and what womb did bear
me, that I should be thus accursed
before the children of Israel, and
that they should reproach and
deride me in the temple of my
God: Wo is me, to what can I
be compared?
3 I am not comparable to the
very beasts of the earth, for even
the beasts of the earth are fruitful
before thee, O Lord Wo is me,
to what can I be compared?
4 I am not comparable to the
brute animals, for even the brute
animals are fruitful before thee,
O Lord Wo is me, to what am
I comparable?
5 I cannot be compared to
these waters, for even the waters
are fruitful before thee, O Lord
Wo is me, to what can I be
compared?
6 I am not comparable to the
waves of the sea; for these, whe
ther they are calm, or in motion,
with the fishes which are in them,
praise thee, O Lord Wo is me, to
what can I be compared?
7 I am not comparable to the
very earth, for the earth produces
its fruits, and praises thee, O
Lord I
CHAP. IV.
1 A n Angel appears to Anna and tells her
shall conceive; two angels appear
to her on the same errand. 5 Joachim
sacrifices. 8 Anna goes to meet him,
9 rejoicing that she shall conceive.
HEN an angel of the Lord
stoodby her and said, Anna,
Anna, the Lord hath heard thy
prayer; thou shalt conceive and
bring forth, and thy progeny
shall be spoken of in all the
world.
2 And Anna answered, As the
Lord my God liveth, whatever I
bring forth, whether it be male or
female, I will devote it to the Lord
THE PROTEVANGELION. Mary's birth.
my God and it shall minister to
him in holy things, during its
whole life.
3 And behold there appeared
two angels, saying unto her, Be
hold Joachim thy husband is
coming with his shepherds.
4 For an angel of the Lord
hath also come down to him, and
said, The Lord God hath heard
thy prayer, make haste and go
hence, for behold Anna thy wife
shall conceive.
5 And Joachim went down.
and called his shepherds, saying
Bring me hither ten she-lainbs
without spot or blemish, and they
shall be for the Lord my God.
6 And bring me twelve calves
without blemish, and the twelve
calves shall be for the priests and
the elders.
7 Bring me also a hundred
goats, and the hundred goats shall
be for the whole people.
8 And Joachim went down
with the shepherds, and Anna
stood by the gate and saw Joa
chim coming with the shepherds.
9 And she ran, and hanging
about his neck, said, Now I know
that the Lord hath greatly blessed
Ino :
10 For behold, I who was a
widow am no longer a widow,
and I who was barren shall con
ceive.
CHAP. W.
1 Joachim abides the first day in his
house, but sacrifices on the morrow.
2 consults the plate on the priest's
forehead. 3 And is without sin. 6
Anna brings forth a daughter, 9 whom
she calls Mary.
ND Joachim abode the first
day in his house, but on the
morrow he brought his offerings
and said,
2 If the Lord be propitious to
me let the plate which is on the
26
Her dedication
priest's forehead" make it ma
nifest.
3 And he consulted the plate
which the priest wore, and saw it,
and behold sin was not found in
him.
4 And Joachim said, Now I
know that the Lord is propitious
to me, and hath taken away all
my sins.
5 And he went down from the
temple of the Lord justified, and
he went to his own house.
6 And when nine months were
fulfilled to Anna, she brought
forth, and said to the midwife,
What have I brought forth ;
7 And she told her, A girl.
8 Then Anna said, the Lord
hath this day magnified my soul;
and she laid her in bed.
9 And when the days of her
purification were accomplished,
she gave suck to the child, and
called her name Mary.
CHAP. VI.
1 Mary at nine months old, walks nine
steps, 3 Anna keeps her holy, 4 when
she is a year old, Joachim makes a
eat feast, 7 Anna gives her the
tº, and sings a song to the Lord.
ND the child increased in
strength every day, so that
when she was nine months old,
her mother put her upon the
ground to try if she could stand;
and when she had walked nine
steps, she came again to her mo
ther's lap.
2 Then her mother caught her
*p, and said, As the Lord my God
liveth, thou shalt not walk again
on this earth till I bring thee into
the temple of the Lord.
3. Accordingly she made her
chamber a holy place, and suffered
nothing uncommon or unclean to
THE PROTFV ANGELION. in the temple.
come near her, hut invited certain
undefited daughters of Israel, and
they drew her aside.
4. But when the child was a
year old, Joachim made a great
feast, and invited the priests,
scribes, elders, and all the people
of Israel;
5 And Joachim then made an
offering of the girl to the chief
priests, and they blessed her, say.
ing, The God of our fathers bless
this girl, and give her a name
famous and lasting through all
generations. And all the poople
replied, So be it, Amen.
6 Then Joachim a second time
offered her to the priests, and they
blessed her, saying, O most high
God, regard this girl, and bless
her with an everlasting blessing.
7. Upon this her mother took
her up, and gave her the breast,
and sung the following song to the
Lord.”
8 I will sing a song unto the
Lord my God, for he hath visited
me, and taken away from me the
reproach of mine enemies, and
hath given me the fruit of his
righteousness, that it may now be
told the sons of Iteuben, that
Anna gives suck.
9 Then she put the child to rest
in the room which she had conse
crated, and she went out and mi
nistered unto them.
10 And when the feast was
ended, they went away rejoicing
and praising the God of Israel.
CHAP. VII.
3 Mary being three years old, Joachin
causes certain virgins to light each a
lamp, and goes with her to the temple.
5 The high-priest places her on the
third step of the altar, and she dances
with her feet.
| Such an instrument God had appointed the high-priest to wear for such
discoveries. See Exod. xxviii. 36, &c., and Spencer de Urim et Thummim.
* Compare J Sams. ii., &c., with Luke i. 46.
27
Joseph throws
UT the girl grew, and when
she was two years old, Joa
chim said to Anna, Let us lead
her to the temple of the Lord,
that we may perform our vow,
which we have vowed unto the
Lord God, lest he should be angry
with us, and our offering be un
acceptable.
2. But Anna said, Let us wait
the third year, lest she should
be at a loss to know her father.
And Joachim said, Let us then
wait.
3 And when the child was
three years old, Joachim said, Let
us invite the daughters of the He
brews, who are undefiled, and let
then take each a lamp, and let
them be lighted, that the child
may not turn back again, and her
mind be set against the temple
of the Lord.
4 And they did thus till they
ascended into the temple of the
Lord. And the high-priest re
ceived her, and blessed her, and
said, Mary, the Lord God hath
magnified thy name to all genera
tions, and to the very end of time
by thee will the Lord shew his
redemption to the children of
Israel.
5 And he placed her upon the
third step of the altar, and the
Lord gave unto her grace, and she
danced with her feet, and all the
house of Israel loved her.
CHAP. VIII.
2 Mary fed in the temple by angels, 3
when twelve years old the priests con
sult what to do with her. 6 The
angel of the Lord warns Zacharias
to call together all the widowers, each
bringing a rod. 7 The people meet
*w sound of trumpet. 8 Joseph throws
sway his hatchet, and goes to the
meeting, 11, a dove comes forth from
his rod, and alights on his head, 12
THE PROTEVANGELION. away his hatchet.
He is chosen to betroth the Virgin, 1s
refuses because he is an old man, 15
is compelled, 16 takes her
and goes to mind his trade of building.
A ND her parents went away
filled with wonder, and prais
ing God, because the girl did not
return back to them.
2 But Mary continued in the
temple as a dove educated there,
and received her food from the
hand of an angel.
3 And when she was twelve
years of age, the priests met in a
council, and said, Behold, Mary
is twelve years of age ; what shall
we do with her, for fear lest the
holy place of the Lord our God
should be defiled ?
4 Then replied the priests to
Zacharias the high-priest, Do you
stand at the altar of the Lord,
and enter into the holy place,
and make petitions concerning
her, and whatsoever the Lord
shall manifest unto you, that do.
5 Then the high-priest entered
into the Holy of Holies, and
taking away with him the breast
plate of judgment made prayers
concerning her;
6 And behold the angel of the
Lord came to him, and said, Za
charias, Zacharias, Go forth and
oall together all the widowers
among the people, and let every
one of them bring his rod, and
he by whom the Lord shall shew
a sign shall be the husband of
Mary.
7 And the criers went out
through all Judaea, and the trum.
pet of the Lord sounded, and all
the people ran and met together.
8 "I Joseph also, throwing away
his hatchet, went out to meet
them; and when they were met,
they went to the high-priest,
taking every uail his rod.
\ See FXod. xxviii. 22. &c.
38
Mary's lot to
9 After the high-priest had
received their rods, he went into
the temple to pray;
10 And when he had finished
his prayer, he took the rods, and
went forth and distribue them,
and there was no miracle attended
them.
11 The last rod was taken by
Joseph, and behold a dove pro
ceeded out of the rod, and flew
upon the head of Joseph.
12 And the high-priest said,
Joseph, Thou art the person
chosen to take the Virgin of the
Lord, to keep her for him :
13 But Joseph refused, saying,
I am an old man, and have chil
dren, but she is young, and I fear
lest I should appear ridiculous in
Israel.
14 Then the high-priest re
plied, Joseph, Fear the Lord thy
God, and remember how God
dealt with Dathan, Korah, and
Abiram, how the earth opened
and swallowed them up, because
of their contradiction.
15 Now therefore, Joseph, fear
God, lest the like things should
happen in your family.
16 Joseph then being afraid,
took her unto his house, and Jo
seph said unto Mary, Behold, I
have taken thee from the temple
of the Lord, and now I will leave
thee in my house; I must go to
mind my trade of building. The
Lord be with thee.
CHAP. IX.
1 The priests desire a new veil for the
temple, 3 seven virgins cast lots for
making different parts of it, 4 the
lot to spin the true purple falls to
Mary. 5 Zacharias, the high-priest,
becomes dumb. 7 Mary takes a pot
to draw water, and hears a voice, 8
trembles and begins to work, 9 an
angel appears, and salutes her, and
THE PROTEVANGELION. spin the purple.
tells her she shall conceive by the
Holy Ghost, 17 she submits, 19 visits
her cousin Elizabeth, whose child in
her womb leaps.
ND it came to pass, in a
council of the priests, it was
said, Let us make a new veil for
the temple of the Lord.
2 And the high-priest said,
Call together to me seven unde
filed virgins of the tribe of Da
vid.
3 And the servants went and
brought them into the temple of
the Lord, and the high-priest said
unto them Cast lots before me
now, who of you shall spin the
golden thread, who the blue, who
the scarlet, who the fine linen, and
who the true purple.
4 Then the high-priest knew
Mary, that she was of the tribe of
David; and he called her, and the
true purple fell to her lot to spin,
and she went away to her own
house.
5 But from that time Zacharias
the high-priest became dumb, and
Samuel was placed in his room
till Zacharias spoke again.
6 But Mary took the true pur
ple, and did spin it.
7 'ſ And she took a pot, and
went out to draw water, and heard
a voice saying unto her, Hail thou
who art full of grace, 'the Lord is
with thee; thou art blessed among
WOInen.
8 And she looked round to the
right and to the left (tosee) whence
that voice came, and then trem
bling went into her house, and lay
ing down the water-pot she took
the purple, and sat down in her
seat to work it.
9 And behold the angel of the
Lord stood by her, and said, Fear
not, Mary, for thou hast found
favour in the sight of God;
"Luke i. 28, &c.
;
Joseph's jealousy.
10 Which when she hcard, she
reasoned with herself what that
sort of salutation meant.
11 And the angel said unto her
The Lord is with thee, and thou
shalt conceive :
12 To which she replied,What!
shall I conceive by the living God,
and bring forth as all other wo
men do
13 But the angel returned an
swer, Not so, O Mary, but the
Holy Ghost shall come upon thee,
and the power of the Most High
shall overshadow thee;
14 Wherefore that which shall
be born of thee shall be holy, and
shall be called the Son of the Liv
ing God, and thou shalt call his
name Jesus; for he shall save his
people from their sins.
15 And behold thy cousin Eli
zabeth, she also hath conceived a
son in her old age.
16 And this now is the sixth
month with her, who was called
barren ; for nothing is impossible
with God.
17 And Mary said, Behold the
handmaid of the Lord ; let it be
unto me according to thy word.
18 Mſ And when she had
wrought her purple, she carried
it to the high-priest, and the
high-priest blessed her, saying,
Mary, the Lord God hath mag
nified thy name, and thou shalt
be blessed in all the ages of the
world.
19 Then Mary, filled with joy,
went away to her cousin Eliza
beth, and knocked at the door.
20 Which when Elizabeth
heard, she ran and opened to
her, and blessed her, and said,
Whence is this to me, that the
mother of my Lord should come
unto me !
21 For lo! as soon as the voice
of thy salutation reached my ears,
THE PROTEVANGELION. He is warned.
that which is in me leaped and
blessed thee.
22 But Mary, being ignorant
of all those mysterious things
which the archangel Gabriel had
spoken to her, lifted up her eyes
to heaven, and said, Lord ' What
am I, that all the generations of
the earth should call me blessed ?"
23 But perceiving herself daily
to grow big, and being afraid, she
went home, and hid herself from
the children of Israel; and was
fourteen years old when all these
things happened.
CHAP. X.
1 Joseph returns from building houses,
finds the Virgin grown big, being
six months' gone with child, 2 is
jealous and troubled, 8 reproaches
her, 10 she affirms her innocence,
13 he leaves her, 16 determines to
dismiss her privately, 17 is warned
in a dream that Mary is with child
by the Holy Ghost, 20 and glorifies
God who had shewn him such
favour.
ND when her sixth month
was come, Joseph returned
from his building houses abroad,
which was his trade, and entering
into the house, found the Virgin
grown big :
2 Then smiting upon his face,
he said, With what face can I
look up to the Lord my God? or,
what shall I say concerning this
young woman'ſ
3 For I received her a Virgin
out of the temple of the Lord my
God, and have not preserved her
such !
4 Who has thus deceived me !
Who has committed this evil in
my house, and seducing the Vir
gin from me, hath defiled her ?
5 Is not the history of Adam
exactly accomplished in me !
6 For in the very instant of his
glory, the serpent came and found
Eve alone, and seduced her.
'Luke ii.39, &c.
30
Joseph and Mary's THE PROTEVANGELION.
7 Just after the same manner it
has happened to me.
8 Then Joseph arising from the
ound, called her, and said,
thou who hast been so much
favoured by God, why hast thou
done this?
9 Why hast thou thus debased
thy soul, who wast educated in
the Holy of Holies, and received
thy food from the hand of
angels 1
10 But she, with a flood of
tears, replied, I am innocent, and
have known no man.
11 Then said Joseph, How
comes it to pass you are with
child 1
12 Mary answered, As the
Lord my God liveth, I know not
by what means.
13 * Then Joseph was ex
ceedingly afraid, and went away
from her, considering what he
should do with her; and he thus
reasoned with himself: *
14 If I conceal her crime, I
shall be found guilty by the law
of the Lord ;
15 And if I discover her to the
children of Israel, I fear, lest she
being with child by an angel, I
shall be found to betray the life of
an innocent person:
16 What therefore shall I do
I will privately dismiss her.
17 Then the night was come
upon him, when behold an angel
of the Lord appeared to him in a
dream, and said,
18 Be not afraid to take that
young woman, for that which is
within her is of the Holy Ghost;
19 And she shall bring forth a
son, and thou shalt call his name
Jesus, for he shall save his people
from their sins.
20 Then Joseph arose from his
chastity proved.
sleep, and glorified the God of
Israel, who had shown him such
favour, and preserved the Virgin.
CHAP. XI.
3 Annas visits Joseph, perceives the
Virgin big with child, 4 informs the
high priest that Joseph had privately
married her. 8 Joseph and Mar
brought to trial on the charge. 1
Joseph drinks the water of the Lord
as an ordeal, and receiving no kurm,
returns home.
HEN came Annas the scribe,
and said to Joseph, Where
fore have we not seen you since
your return ?
2 And Joseph replied, Because
I was weary after my journey, and
rested the first day.
3 But Annas turning about
perceived the Virgin big with
child.
4 And went away to the priest,
and told him, Joseph in whom
you placed so much confidence, is
guilty of a notorious crime, in
that he hath defiled the Virgin
whom he received out of the
temple of the Lord, and hath
privately married her, not dis
covering it to the children of
Israel.
5 Then said the priest, Hath
Joseph done this?
6 Annas replied, If you send
any of your servants you will find
that she is with child.
7 And the servants went, and
found it as he said.
8 Upon this both she and Jo
seph were brought to their trial,
and the priest said unto her, Mary,
what hast thou done 7
9 Why hast thou debased thy
soul, and forgot thy God, seeing
thou wast brought up in the Holy
of Holies, and didst receive thy
* See Matt. i. 18.
31
Joseph's trial
food from the hands of angels,
and heardest their songs
10 Why hast thou done this?
11 To which with a flood of
tears she answered, As the Lord
my God liveth, I am innocent
in his sight, seeing I know no
IIlºil.
12 Then the priest said to
Joseph, Why hast thou done
this?
13 And Joseph answered, As
the Lord my God liveth, I have
not been concerned with her.
14 But the priest said, Lie not,
but declare the truth; thou hast
privately married her, and not
discovered it to the children of
Israel, and humbled thyself under
the mighty hand (of God), that
thy seed might be blessed.
15 And Joseph was silent.
16 Then said the priest (to
Joseph), You must restore to the
temple of the Lord the Virgin
which you took thence.
17 But he wept bitterly, and
the priest added, I will cause you
both to drink the water of the
Lord," which is for trial, and so
your iniquity shall be laid open
before you.
18 Then the priest took the
water, and made Joseph drink,
and sent him to a mountainous
place.
19 And he returned perfectly
well, and all the people wondered
that his guilt was not disco
wered.
20 So the priest said, Since the
Lord hath not made your sins
evident, neither do I condemn
you.
21 So he sent them away.
22 Then Joseph took Mary,
and went to his house, rejoicing
and praising the God of Israel.
Num. v. 18.
THE PROTEVANGELION. and acquittal.
CIIAP. XII.
1 A decree from Augustus for taxing
the Jews, 5 Joseph puts Mary on an
ass, to return to Bethlehem, 6 she
looks sorrowful, 7 she laughs, 8 Joseph
inquires the cause of each, 9 she tells
him she sees two persons, one mourning
and the other rejoicing, 10 the delivery
being near, he takes her from the ass,
and places her in a cave.
ND it came to pass, that
there went forth a decree”
from the Emperor Augustus, that
all the Jews should be taxed, who
were of Bethlehem in Judaea:
2 And Joseph said, I will take
care that my children be taxed :
but whatshall I do with this young
woman |
3 To have her taxed as my wife
I am ashamed ; and if I tax her
as my daughter, all Israel knows
she is not my daughter.
4. When the time of the Lord's
appointment shall coule, let him
do as seems good to him.
5 And he saddled the ass, and
put her upon it, and Joseph and
Simon followed after her, and ar
rived at Bethlehem within three
miles.
6 Then Joseph turning about
saw Mary sorrowful, and said
within himself, Perhaps she is in
pain through that which is within
her.
7 But when he turned about
again he saw her laughing, and
said to her,
8 Mary, how happens it, that
I sometimes see sorrow, and some
times laughter and joy in thy
countenance?
9 And Mary replied to him, I
see two people with mine eyes.
the one weeping and mourning,
the other laughing and rejoicing.
10 And he went again across
the way, and Mary said to Jo.
* Luke ii. 1.
32
Miracles ut
seph, Take me down from the ass,
fºr that which is in me presses to
come forth.
ll But Joseph replied, Whi
ther shall I take thee ? for the
sºlace is desert.
12 Then said Mary again to
Joseph, take me down, for that
which is within me mightily
presses me.
13 And Joseph took her down.
14 And he found there a cave,
and let her into it.
CHAP. XIII.
1 Joseph seeks a Hebrew midwife, 2
perceives the fowls stopping in their
jlight, 3 the working people at their
food not moving, 8 #: sheep stand
ing still, 9 the shepherd fixed and
immoveable, 10 and kids with their
mouths touching the water but not
drinking.
ND leaving her and his sons
in the cave, Joseph went
forth to seek a Hebrew midwife
in the village of Bethlehem.
2. But as I was going (said Jo
seph) I looked up into the air, and
I saw the clouds astonished, and
the fowls of the air stopping in
the midst of their flight.
3 And I looked down towards
the earth, and saw a table spread,
and working people sitting around
it, but their hands were upon the
table, and they did not move to
eat.
4 They who had meat in their
mouths did not eat.
5 They who lifted their hands
up to their heads did not draw
them back :
6. And they who lifted them up
to their mouths did not put any
thing in ;
7 But all their faces were fixed
upwards.
8 And I beheld the sheep dis
persed, and yet the sheep stood
still.
THE PROTEVANGEl LON. Mary 8 labour.
9 And the shepherd lifted up
his hand to smite them, and his
hand continued up.
10 And I looked unto a river,
and saw the kids with their
mouths close to the water, and
touching it, but they did not
drink.
CHAP. XIV.
1 Joseph finds a midwife. 10 A bright
cloud overshadows the cave. 11 A
great light in the cave, gradually in
creases until the infant is born. 13
The midwife goes out, and tells
Salome that she has seen a virgin
bring forth. 17 Salome doubts it.
20 her hand withers, 22 she sup.
plicates the Lord, 28 is cured, 30 but
warned not to declare what she had
Geen.
HEN I beheld a woman com
ing down from the moun
tains, and she said to me, Where
art thou going, O man
2 And I said to her, I go to en
quire for a Hebrew midwife.
3 She replied to me, Where is
the woman that is to be delivered
4 And I answered, In the cave,
and she is betrothed to me.
5 Then said the midwife, Is she
not thy wife?
6 Joseph answered, It is Mary,
who was educated in the Holy of
Holies, in the house of the Lord,
and she fell to me by lot, and is
not my wife, but has conceived by
the Holy Ghost.
7 The midwife said, Is this
true !
8 He answered, Come and
See.
9 And the midwife went along
with him, and stood in the cave.
10 Then a bright cloud over
shadowed the cave, and the mid
wife said, This day my soul is
magnified, for mine eyes have
33
Christ born.
seen surprising things, and salva
tion is brought forth to Israel.
11 But on a sudden the cloud
became a great light in the cave,
so that their eyes could not bear
it.
12. But the light gradually de
creased, until the infant appeared,
and sucked the breast of his mo
ther Mary.
13. Then the midwife cried out,
and said, How glorious a day is
this, wherein mine eyes have seen
this extraordinary sight !
14 And the midwife went out
from the cave, and Salome met
her.
15 And the midwife said to her,
Salome, Salome, I will tell you a
most surprising thing whichI saw,
16 A virgin hath brought forth,
which is a thing contrary to na
ture.
17 To which Salome replied,
As the Lord my God liveth, un
less I receive particular proof of
this matter, I will not believe that
a virgin hath brought forth.
18 T Then Salome went in,
and the midwife said, Mary, shew
thyself, for a great controversy is
risen concerning thee.
19 And Salome received satis
faction.
20 But her hand was withered,
and she groaned bitterly.
21 And said, Woe to me, be
cause of mine iniquity; for I
have tempted the living God, and
my hand is ready to drop off.
22 Then Salome made her
supplication to the Lord, and
said, O God of my fathers, re
member me, for I am of the seed
of Abraham, and Isaac, and
Jacob.
28 Make me not a reproach
THE PROTEVANGELION. Salome's unbelief.
among the children of Israel, but
restore me sound to my parents.
24 For thou well knowest, O
Lord that I have performed many
offices of charity in thy name, and
have received my reward from
thee.
25 Upon this an angel of the
Lord stood by Salome, and said,
The Lord God hath heard thy
prayer, reach forth thy hand to
the child, and carry him, and by
that means thou shalt be re
stored.
26 Salome, filled with exceed
ing joy, went to the child, and
said, I will touch him :
27 And she purposed to wor
ship him, for she said, This is a
great king which is born in
Israel.
28 And straightway Salome
was cured.
29 Then the midwife went out
of the cave, being approved by
God.
30 And lo l a voice came to
Salome, Declare not the strange
things which thou hast seen, till
the child shall come to Jerusalem.
31 So Salome also departed,
approved by God.
CHAP. XW.
1 Wise men comefrom the east, 3 He
rod alarmed; 8 desires them ºftheyfind
the child, to bring him word. 10 They
visit the cave, and offer the child their
treasure, ll and being warned in a
dream, do not return to Herod, but ge
home another way.
HEN Joseph was preparing
to go away, because there
arose a great disorder in Bethle
hem by the coming of some
wise men from the east,
'Matt. ii. 1, &c.
34
The wise men.
2 Who said, Where is the king
of the Jews born ? For we have
seen his star in the east, and are
come to worship him.
3 When Herod heard this, he
was exceedingly troubled, and
sent messengers to the wise men,
and to the priests, and enquired
of them in the town-hall,
4 And said unto them, Where
have you it written concerning
Christ the king, or where should
he be born ?
5 Then they say unto him, In
Bethlehem of Judaea; for thus it
is written : And thou Bethlehem
in the land of Judah, art not the
least among the princes of Judah,
for out of thee shall come a ruler,
who shall rule my people Israel.
6 And having sent away the
chief priests, he inquired of the
wise men in the town-hall, and
said unto them, What sign was it
ye saw concerning the king that
is born!
7 They answered him, We saw
an extraordinary large star shin
ing among the stars of heaven,
and so out-shined all the other
stars, as that they became not
visible, and we knew thereby that
a great king was born in Israel,
and therefore we are come to
worship him.
8 Then said Herod to them,
Go and make diligent inquiry;
and if ye find the child, bring me
word again, that I may come and
worship him also.
9 So the wise men went forth,
and behold, the star which they
saw in the east went before them,
till it came and stood over the
cave where the young child was
with Mary his mother.
10 Then they brought forth
out of their treasures, and offered
'Matt. ii. 16.
THE PROTEVANGELION. Star in the East.
unto him gold and frankincense,
and myrrh.
11 And being warned in a
dream by an angel, that they
should not returnto Herod through
Judaea, they departed into their
own country by another way.
CHAP. XVI.
1 Herod enraged, orders the infants wº
Bethlehem to be slain. 2 JIary puts
her infant in an ox-manger. 3 Eliza
beth flees with her son John to the
mountains. 6 A mountain miracu
lously divides and receives them. 9
Herod incensed at the escape of John,
causes Zacharias to be murdered at the
altar, 23 the roofs of the temple rent,
the body miraculously conveyed, and
the blood petrified. 25 Israel mourns
for him. 27 Simeon chosen his suo.
cessor by lot.
Titº Herod' perceiving that
he was mocked by the wise
men, and being very angry, com
manded certain men to go and to
kill all the children that were in
Bethlehem, from two years old
and under.
2. But Mary hearing that the
children were to be killed, being
under much fear, took the child,
and wrapped him up in swaddling
clothes, and laid him in an ox
manger,” because there was no
room for them in the inn.
3 Elizabeth also, hearing that
her son John was about to be
searched for, took him and went
up unto the mountains, and look
ed around for a place to hide
him ;
4 And there was no secret
place to be found.
5 Then she groaned within
herself, and said, O mountain of
the Lord, receive the mother with
the child.
6 For Elizabeth could not climb
up.
* Luke ii. 7, is alluded to, though misapplied as to time,
ºn tº
..}.}
Herod's cruelty.
7 And instantly the mountain
was divided and received them.
8 And there appeared to them
an angel of the Lord, to preserve
them.
9 T But Herod made search
after John, and sent servants to
Zacharias, when he was (minister
ing) at the altar, and said unto
him, Where hast thou hid thy
son'ſ
10 He replied to them, I am a
minister of God, and a servant at
the altar; how should I know
where my son is?
11 So the servants went back,
and told Herod the whole ; at
which he was incensed, and said,
Is not this son of his like to be
king in Israel ?
12 He sent therefore again his
servants to Zacharias, saying, Tell
us the truth, where is thy son, for
you know that your life is in my
hand.
13 So the servants went and
told him all this :
14 But Zacharias replied to
them, I am a martyr for God,
and if he shed my blood, the Lord
will receive my soul.
15 Besides know that ye shed
innocent blood.
16 However Zacharias was
murdered in the entrance of the
temple and altar, and about the
partition ;
THE PROTEVANGELION. Zachs. murdered.
17 But the children of Israel
knew not when he was killed.
18 "I Thon at the hour of sa
lutation the priests went into the
temple, but Zacharias did not ac
cording to custom meet them and
bless them ;
19 Yet they still continued
waiting for him to salute them ;
20 And when they found he
did not in a long time come, one
of them ventured into the holy
place where the altar was, and he
saw blood lying upon the ground
congealed ;
21 When, behold, a voice from
heaven said, Zacharias is murder
ed, and his blood shall not be
wiped away, until the revenger of
his blood come.
22 But when he heard this, he
was afraid, and went forth and
told the priests what he had seen
and heard; and they all went in,
and saw the fact.
23 Then the roofs of the temple
howled, and were rent from the
top to the bottom:
24 And they could not find the
body, but only blood made hard
like stone.
25 And they went away, and
told the people, that Zacharias
was murdered, and all the tribes
of Israel heard thereof, and mourn
ed for him, and lamented three
days."
' There is a story both in the Jerusalem and Babylonish Talmud very
similar to this. It is cited by Dr. Lightfoot, Talmud, Hierosol, in Taannith,
fol. 69 ; and Talmud, Babyl. in Sanhedr., fol. 96. “Rabbi Jochanan said,
Eighty thousand priests were slain for the blood of Zacharias. Rabbi
Judas asked Rabbi Achan, Where did they kill Zacharias' Was it in the
woman's court, or in the court of Israel He answered; Neither in the
court of Israel, nor in the court of women, but in the court of the priests;
and they did not treat his blood in the same manner as they were wont
to treat the blood of a ram or a young goat. For of these it is written,
He shall pour out his blood, and cover it with dust. But it is written
here, The blood is in the midst of her : she set it upon the top of a rock ;
she poured it not upon the ground. (Ezek. xxiv. 7.) But why was this 7
That it might cause fury to come up to take vengeance : I have set his
blood upon the top of a rock, that it should not be covered. They com
mitted seven evils that day: they murdered a priest, a prophet, and a
Simeon succeeds
26 Then the priests took coun
sel together concerning a person to
succeed him.
27 And Simeon and the other
priests cast lots, and the lot fell
upon Simeon.
28 For he had been assured by
the Holy Spirit, that he should
not die, till he had seen Christ
come in the flesh."
THE PROTEWANGELION. Zacharias,
* I James wrote this History in
Jerusalem: and when the disturbance
was I retired into a desert place, until
the death of Herod. A nd the disturb
ance ceased at Jerusalem. That whic),
remains is, that I glorify God that he
hath given me such wisdom to write unto
gou who are spiritual, and who love God:
to whom (be ascribed) glory and dominion
for ever and ever, Amen.
king; they shed the blood of the innocent : they polluted the court : that
day was the Sabbath ; and the day of expiation, When therefore Nebuza
radan came there (viz. Jerusalem,) he saw his blood bubbling, and said to
them, What meaneth this They answered, It is the blood of calves,
lambs, and rams, which we have offered upon the altar. He commanded
then, that they should bring calves, and lambs, and rams, and said I will
try whether this be their blood : accordingly they brought and slew them,
but the blood of (Zacharias) still bubbled, but the blood of these did not
bubble. Then he said, Declare to me the truth of this matter, or else I
will comb your flesh with iron combs. Then said they to him, He was a
priest, prophet, and judge, who prophesied to Israel all these calamities
which we have suffered from you; but we arose against him, and slew
him. Then, said he, I will appease him : then he took the rabbins and
slew them upon his (viz Zacharias's) blood, and he was not yet appeased.
Next he took the young boys from the schools, and slew them upon his
blood, and yet it bubbled. Then he brought the young priests and slew
them in the same place, and yet it still j. So he slew at length
ninety-four thousand persons upon his blood, and it did not as yet cease
bubbling. Then he drew near to it, and said, O Zacharias, Zacharias, thou
hast occasioned the death of the chief of thy countrymen ; shall Islay
them all? then the blood ceased, and did bubble no more.”
* Luke il. zú.
37
The first Gospel of the INFANCY of JESUS CHRIST.
[Mr. Henry Sike, Professor ofOriental Languages at Cambridge, first trans
lated and published this Gospel in 1697. It was received by the Gnostics,
a sect of Christians in the second century; and several of its relations
were credited in the following ages by other Christians, viz., Eusebius,
Athanasius, Epiphanius, Chrysostom, &c. Sozomen says, he was told
by many, and he credits the relations, of the idols in Egypt falling down
on Joseph, and º:flight thither with Christ; and of Christ making
a well to wash his clothes in a sycamore tree, from whence balsam after
wards proceeded. These stories are from this Gospel. Chemnitius, out
of Stipulensis, who had it from Peter Martyr, Bishop of Alexandria, in
the third century, says, that the place in Egypt where Christ was banished
is now called Matarea, about ten miles beyond Cairo ; that the in
habitants constantly burn a lamp in remembrance of it; and that there
is a garden of trees yielding a balsam, which were planted by Christ
when a boy. M. La Crosse cites a synod at Angamala, in the mountains
of Malabar, A.D. 1599, which condemns this Gospel as commonly read
by the Nestorians in that country. Ahmed Ibu Idris, a Mahometan
divine, says, it was used by some Christians in common with the other
four Gospels; and Ocobius de Castro mentions a Gospel of Thomas,
which he says, he saw and had translated to him by an Armenian Arch
bishop at Amsterdam, that was read in very many churches of Asia and
Africa, as the only rule of their faith, Fabricius takes it to be this
Gospel. It has been supposed, that Mahomet and his coadjutors used it
in compiling the Koran. There are several stories believed of Christ
roceeding from this Gospel; as that which Mr. Sike relates out of La
É. Persic Lexicon, that Christ practised the trade of a dyer, and
his working a miracle with the colours; from whence the Persian dyers
honour him as their patron, and call a dye-house the shop of Christ.
Sir John Chardin mentions Persian legends concerning Christ's dispute
with his schoolmaster about his A B C; and his lengthening the cedar
board which Joseph sawed too short.]
CFIAP. I.
1 Cainhas relates, that Jesus when in his
crºwdle, informed his mother, that he
was the Son of God. 5 Joseph and
Mary going to Bethlehem to be taxed,
Mary's time of bringing forth arrives,
bring forth according to the de
claration of the angel Gabriel to
thee, and my father hath sent me
for the salvation of the world.
4 *| In the three hundred and
and she goes into a cave. 8 Joseph
fetches in a Hebrew woman, the care
jilled with great lights. 11 The infant
born, 17 cures the woman, 19 ar
rivul of the shepherds.
HE following accounts we
found in the book of Joseph
die high-priest, called by some
Caiphas:
2 He relates, that Jesus spake
even when he was in the cradle,
and said to his mother:
3 Mary, I am Jesus the Son of
God, that word, which thou didst
ninth year of the aera of Alexan
der, Augustus published a decree
that all persons should go to be
taxed in their own country.
5 Joseph therefore arose, and
with Mary his spouse he went to
Jerusalem, and then came to Beth
lehem, that he and his family
might be taxed in the city of his
fathers.
6 And when they came by the
cave, Mary confessed to Joseph
that her time of bringing forth
was come, and she could not go
38
Christ born and
on to the city, and said, Let us go
into this cave.
7. At that time the sun was very
near going down.
8 But Joseph hastened away,
that he might fetch her a midwife;
and when he saw an old Hebrew
woman who was of Jerusalem, he
said to her, Pray come hither, good
woman, and go into that cave, and
you will there see a woman just
ready to bring forth.
9 It was after sunset, when the
old woman and Joseph with her
reached the cave, and they both
went into it.
10 And behold, it was all filled
with lights, greater than the light
of lamps and candles, and greater
than the light of the sun itself.
11 The infant was then wrap
ped up in swaddling clothes, and
sucking the breasts of his mother
St. Mary.
12 When they both saw this
light, they were surprised ; the
old woman asked St. Mary, Art
thou the mother of this child?
13 St. Mary replied, She was.
14 On which the old woman
said, Thou art very different from
all other women.
15 St. Mary answered, As there
is not any child like to my son, so
neither is there any woman like to
his mother.
16 The old woman answered,
and said, O my Lady, I am come
hither that I may obtain an ever
lasting reward.
17 Then our Lady, St. Mary,
said to her, Lay thine hands upon
the infant; which, when she had
done, she became whole.
18 And as she was going forth,
the said, From henceforth, all the
days of my life, I will attend upon
and be a servant of this infant.
19 After this, when the shep
I. INFANUY. circumcised in the cave
herds came, and had made a fire,
and they were exceedingly rejoic
ing, the heavenly host appeared
to them, praising and adoring the
supreme God.
20 And as the shepherds were
engaged in the same employment,
the cave at that time seemed like
a glorious temple, becauseboth the
tongues of angels and men united
to adore and magnify God, on ac.
count of the birth of the Lord
Christ.
21 But when the old Hebrew
woman saw all these evident mira
cles, she gave praises to God, and
said, I thank thee, O God, thou
God of Israel, for that mine eyes
have seen the birth of the Saviour
of the world.
CHAP II.
1 The child circumcised in the cave, 2 and
the old woman preserving his foreskin
or navalstring in a box of spikenard,
Mary afterwards anoints Christ with
it. 5 Christ brought to the temple, 6
shines, 7 angels stand around him
adoring. 8 Simeon praises Christ.
ND when the time of his cir
cumcision was come, name.
ly, the eighth day, on which the
law commanded the child to be
circumcised, they circumcised
him in the cave.
2 And the old Hebrew woman
took the foreskin (others say she
took the naval-string), and pre
served it in an alabaster-box of
old oil of spikenard.
3 And she had a son who was a
druggist, to whom she said, Take
heed thou sell not this alabaster
box of spikenard-ointment, al
though thou shouldst be offered
three hundred pence for it.
4 Now this is that alabaster
box which Mary the sinner pro
cured, and poured forth the oint
ment out of it upon the head and
39
The wise men worship
the feet of our Lord Jesus Christ,
and wiped it off with the hairs of
her head.
5 Then after ten days they
brought him to Jerusalem, and on
the fortieth day from his birth
they presented him in the temple
before the Lord, making the pro
per offerings for him, according
to the requirement of the law of
Moses : namely, that every male
which opens the womb shall be
called holy unto God.
6 At that time old Simeon saw
him shining as a pillar of light,
when St. Mary the Virgin, his
mother, carried him in her arms,
and was filled with the greatest
pleasure at the sight.
7 And the angels stood around
him, adoring him, as a king's
guards stand around him.
8 Then Simeon going near to
St. Mary, and stretching forth his
hands towards her, said to the
Lord Christ, Now, O my Lord,
thy servant shall depart in peace,
according to thy word;
9 For mine eyes have seen thy
mercy, which thou hast prepared
for the salvation of all nations;
a light to all people, and the glory
of thy people Israel.
10 Hannah the prophetess was
also present, and drawing near,
she gave praises to God, and cele
brated the happiness of Mary.
CHAP. IIL
1 The wise men visit Christ. Mary gives
them one ofhis swaddling clothes. 3
An angel appears to them in the form
of a star. Theyreturn and make a fire,
and worship the swaddling cloth, and
put it in the fire, where it remains un
consumed.
ND it came to pass, when the
Lord Jesus was born at Beth
lehem, a city of Judaea, in the
I. INFANCY. Christ's swaddling cloth.
time of Herod the King ; the wise
men came from the East to Jeru.
salem, according to the prophecy
of Zoradascht," and brought with
them offerings: namely, gold,
frankincense, and myrrh, and
worshipped him,and offered to him
their gifts.
2 Then the Lady Mary took
one of his swaddling clothes in
which the infant was wrapped,
and gave it to them instead of a
blessing, which they received from
her as a most noble present.
3 And at the same time there
appeared to them an angel in the
form of that star which had before
been their guide in their journey;
the light of which they followed
till they returned into their own
country.
4 "I On their return their kings
and princes came to them in
quiring, What they had seen and
done? What sort of journey and
return they had Î What company
they had on the road?
5 But they produced the swad.
dling cloth which St. Mary had
given to them, on account whereof
they kept a feast.
6 And having, according to the
custom of theircountry, madea fire,
they worshipped it.
7 And casting the swaddling
cloth into it, the fire took it, and
kept it.
8 And when the fire was put
out, they took forth the swaddling
cloth unhurt, as much as if the
fire had not touched it.
9 Then they began to kiss it,
and put it upon their heads and
their eyes, saying, This is cer
tainly an undoubted truth, and it
is really surprising that the fire
could not burn it, and consume it.
* Zoroaster.
40
An Idol falls. Christ's
10 Then they took it, and with
the greatest respect laid it up
among their treasures.
CHAP. IV.
1 Herod intends to put Christ to death.
3 An angel warns Joseph to take the
child and its mother into Egypt. 6
Consternation on their arrival. 13
The idols fall down. 15 Mary washes
Christ's swaddling clothes, and hangs
them to dry on a post. 16 A son of
the chief priest puts one on his head,
and being possessed of devils, they
leave him.
OW Herod, perceiving that
the wise men did delay,
and not return to him, called to
gether the priest and wise men
and said, Tell me in what place
the Christ should be born ? *
2 And when they replied, in
Bethlehem, a city of Judaea, he
began to contrive in his own mind
the death of the Lord Jesus
Christ.
3 But an angel of the Lord ap
peared to Joseph in his sleep, and
said, Arise, take the child and his
mother, and go into Egypt as soon
as the cock crows. So he arose,
and went.
4'ſ And as he was considering
with himself about his journey,
the morning came upon him.
5 In the length of the journey
the girts of the saddle broke.
6 And now he drew near to a
great city, in which there was an
idol, to which the other idols and
gods of Egypt brought their offer
and vows.
7 And there was by this idol a
priest ministering to it, who, as
often as Satan spoke out of that
idol, related the things he said to
the inhabitants of Egypt, and
those countries.
8 This priest had a son three
years old, who was sed
with a great multitude of devils,
I. INFANCY. swaddling cloth heals a boy.
who uttered many strange things,
and when the devils seized him,
walked about naked with his
clothes torn, throwing stones at
those whom he saw.
9 Near to that idol was the
inn of the city, into which when
Joseph and St. Mary were come,
and had turned into that inn, all
the inhabitants of the city were
astonished.
10 And all the magistrates
and priests of the idols assem.
bled before that idol, and made
inquiry there, saying, What
means all this consternation, and
dread, which has fallen upon all
our country?
11 The idol answered them,
The unknown God is come hi
ther, who is truly God; nor
is there any one besides him,
who is worthy of divine wor
ship ; for he is truly the Son of
God.
12 At the fame of him this
country trembled, and at his
coming it is under the present
commotion and consternation;
and we ourselves are affright
ed by the greatness of his power.
13 And at the same instant this
idol fell down, and at his fall all
the inhabitants of Egypt, besides
others, ran together.
14 T But the son of the priest,
when his usual disorder came
upon him, going into the inn,
found there Joseph and St. Mary,
whom all the rest had left behind
and forsook.
15 And when the Lady St,
Mary had washed the swaddling
clothes of the Lord Christ, and
hanged them out to dry upon a
post, the boy possessed with the
devil took down one of them, and
put it upon his head.
16 And presently the devil
began to come out of his mouth,
6 41
Flight into Egypt.
and fly away in the shape of crows
and serpents.
17 From that time the boy was
healed by the power of the Lord
Christ, and he began to sing
F. and give thanks to the
rd who had healed him.
18 When his father saw him re
stored to his former state of health,
he said, My son, what has hap
pened to thee, and by what means
wert thou cured 7
19 The son answered, When
the devils seized me, I went into
the inn, and there found a very
handsome woman with a boy,
whose swaddling clothes she had
just before washed, and hanged
out upon a post.
20 One of these I took, and
put it upon my head, and imme
diately the devils left me, and fled
away.
21 At this the father exceed
ingly rejoiced, and said, My son,
perhaps this boy is the son of the
living God, who made the hea
vens and the earth.
22 For as soon as he came
amongst us, the idol was broken,
and all the gods fell down, and
were destroyed by a greater power.
23 Then was fulfilled the pro
phecy which saith, Out of Egypt
I have called my son.
CHAP W.
1 Joseph and Mary leave Egypt. 3 Go
to the haunts of robbers, 4 Who hear
ing a mighty noise as of a great army
flee away.
OW Joseph and Mary,
when they heard that the
idol was fallen down and des
troyed, were seized with fear and
trembling, and said, When we
were in the land of Israel, Herod,
intending to kill Jesus, slew for
that purpose all the infants at
Bethlehem, and that neighbour
hood.
2 And there is no doubt but
L INFANCY. Mary cures a woman
the Egyptians if they come to
hear that this idol is broken and
fallen down, will burn us with
fire.
3 They went therefore hence
to the secret places of robbers,
who robbed travellers as they
pass by, of their carriages and
their clothes, and carried them,
away bound.
4 These thieves upon their
coming heard a great noise, such
as the noise of a king with a
great army and many horse, and
the trumpets sounding at his
departure from his own city; at
which they were so affrighted as
to leave all their booty behind
them, and fly away in haste.
* 5 Upon this the prisoners
arose, and loosed each other's.
bonds, and taking each man his
bags, they went away, and saw
Joseph and Mary coming towards
them, and inquired, Where is that
king, the noise of whose approach
the robbers heard, and left us, so
that we are now come off safe?
6 Joseph answered, He will
come after us.
CHAP. VI.
1 Mary looks on a woman in whom Satan.
had taken up his abode, and she be.
comes dispossessed. 5 Christ kissed by
a bride made dumb by sorcerers, cures
her, 11 miraculously cures a gentlewo,
man in whom Satan had taken up his
abode. 16 A leprous girl cured by the
water in which he was washed, and
becomes the servant of Mary and Jo
seph. 20 The leprous son of a prince's
wife cured in like manner. 37 His mo
ther offers large gifts to Mary, and dis
misses her.
HEN they went into another
city where there was a wo
man possessed with a devil, and
in whom Satan, that cursed rebel,
had taken up his abode.
2 One night, when she went
to fetch water, she could neither
endure her clothes on, nor to be
42
Christ cures a dumb bride.
in any house; but as often as
they tied her with chains or cords,
she brake them, and went out
into desert places, and sometimes
standing where roads crossed,
and in churchyards, would throw
stones at men.
3 When St. Mary saw this
woman, she pitied her; where
upon Satan presently left her, and
fled away in the form of a young
man, saying, Wo to me, because
of thee, Mary, and thy son.
4 So the woman was delivered
from her torment ; but consider
ing herself naked, she blushed,
and avoided seeing any man,
and having put on her clothes,
went home, and gave an account
of her case to her father and rela
tions, who, as they were the best
of the city, entertained St. Mary
and Joseph with the greatest re
spect.
5 The next morning having
received a sufficient supply of
provisions for the road, they went
from them, and about the even
ing of the day arrived at another
town, where a marriage was then
about to be solemnized; but by
the arts of Satan and the prac
tices of some sorcerers, the bride
was become so dumb, that she
could not so much as open her
mouth.
6 But when this dumb bride
saw the Lady St. Mary entering
into the town, and carrying the
Lord Christ in her arms, she
stretched out her hands to the
Lord Christ, and took him in her
arms, and closely hugging him,
very often kissed him, continually
moving him and pressing him to
her body. -
7 Straightway the string of her
tongue was loosed, and her ears
were opened, and she began to
sing praises unto God, who had
restored her.
L INFANCY. the possessed woman.
8 So there was great jey among
the inhabitants of the town that
night, who thought that God and
his angels were come down among
them.
9 * In this place they abode
three days, meeting with the
greatest respect and most splendid
entertainment.
10 And being then furnished
by the people with provisions for
the road, they departed and went
to another city, in which they were
inclined to lodge, because it was a
famous place.
11 There was in this city a
gentlewoman, who, as she went
down one day to the river to
bathe, behold cursed Satan leaped
upon her in the form of a ser
pent,
12 And folded himself about
her belly, and every night lay
upon her.
13 This woman seeing the Lady
St. Mary, and the Lord Christ the
infant in her bosom, asked the
Lady St. Mary, that she would
give her the child to kiss, and
carry in her arms.
14 When she had consented,
and as soon as the woman had
moved the child, Satan left her,
and fled away, nor did the woman
ever afterwards see him.
15 Hereupon all the neighbours
praised the Supreme God, and the
woman rewarded them with ample
beneficence. -
16 On the morrow the same
woman brought perfumed water
to wash the Lord Jesus; and
when she had washed him, she
preserved the water.
17 And there was a girl there,
whose body was white with a
leprosy, who being sprinkled with
this water, and washed, was in
stantly cleansed from her le.
prosy.
43
two teprous persons, and 1. INFANCY.
18 The people therefore said
Without doubt Joseph and Mary,
and that boy are Gods, for they do
not look like mortals.
19 And when they were mak
ing ready to go away, the girl,
who had been troubled with the
leprosy, came and desired they
would permit her to go along
with them; so they consented,
and the girl went with them till
they came to a city, in which
was the palace of a great king, and
whose house was not far from
the inn.
20 Here they staid, and when
the girl went one day to the
prince's wife, and found her in a
sorrowful and mournful condition,
she asked her the reason of her
tears.
21 She replied, Wonder not at
my groans, for I am under a great
misfortune, of which I dare not
tell any one. -
22 But, says the girl, if yon
will entrust me with your private
grievance, perhaps I may find you
a remedy for it.
23 Thou, therefore, says the
prince's wife, shalt keep the se
cret, and not discover it to any
one alive l
24 I have been married to this
prince, who rules as king over
large dominions, and lived long
with him, before he had any child
by me.
25 At length I conceived by
him, but alas ! I brought forth a
leprous son; which, when he saw,
he would not own to be his, but
said to me,
26 Either do thou kill him, or
send him to some nurse in such
a place, that he may be never
heard of; and now take care of
yourself; I will never see you
ºnore.
27 So here I pine, lamenting
my wretched and miserable cir
cumstances. Alas, my son alas,
a newly married man.
my husband I Have I disclosed it
to you?
28 The girl replied, I have
found a remedy for your disease,
which I promise you, for I
also was leprous, but God hath
cleansed me, even he who is
called Jesus, the son of the Lady
Mary.
29 The woman inquiring
where that God was, whom she
spake of, the girl answered, He
lodges with you here in the same
house.
30 But how can this be? says
she ; where is he? Behold, re
plied the girl, Joseph and Mary;
and the infant who is with them
is called Jesus : and it is he who
delivered me from my disease and
torment.
31 But by what means, says
she, were you cleansed from your
leprosy % Will you not tell me
that ?
32 Why not ? says the girl; I
took the water with which his
body had been washed, and pour
ed it upon me, and my leprosy
vanished.
33 The prince's wife then
arose and entertained them, pro
viding a great feast for Joseph
among a large company of men.
34 And the next day took
perfumed water to wash the
Lord Jesus, and afterwards
poured the same water up.
on her son, whom she had
brought with her, and her son
was instantly cleansed from his
leprosy.
35 Then she sang thanks and
praises unto God, and said, Bles
sed is the mother that bare thee,
O Jesus !
36 Dost thou thus cure men of
the same naturewith thyself with
the water with which thy body is
washed ?
37 She then offered very large
44
A bewitched young man
gifts to the Lady Mary, and sent
her away with all imaginable
respect.
CHAP. VII.
1 A man who euld not enjoy his wife,
freed from his disorder. , 5. A young
man who had been bewitched, and
turned into a mule, miraculously cured
by Christ being put on his back. 28
and is married to the girl who had
been cured of leprosy.
HEY came afterwards to ano
ther city, and had a mind to
lodge there.
2 Accordingly they went to a
man's house, who was newly mar
ried, but by the influence of sor
cerers could not enjoy his wife:
3 But they lodging at his house
that night, the man was freed of
his disorder:
4 And when they were prepar
ing early in the morning to go,
forward on their jºurney, the new
married person hindered them,
and provided a noble entertain
ment for them?
5 But going forward on the mor
row, they came to another city,and
saw three women going from a cer
tain grave with great weeping.
6 When St. Mary saw them,
she spake to the girl who was
their companion, saying, Go and
inquire of them, what is the mat
ter with them, and what misfor
tune has befallen them
7 When the girl asked them,
they made her no answer, but
asked her again, Who are ye, and
where are ye going? For the day
is far spent, and night is at hand.
8 We are travellers, saith the
girl, and are seeking for an inn to
lodge at.
9 They replied, Go along with
us, and lodge with us
10 They then followed them,
and were introduced into a new
house, well furnished with all sorts
of furniture
I. INFANCY. restored to his shape.
11. It was now winter-time,
and the girl went into the parlour
where these women were, and
found them weeping and lament
ing, as before.
12. By them stood a mule, co
vered over with silk, and an ebony
collar hanging down from his
neck, whom they kissed, and were
feeding.
13 But when the girl said,
How handsome, ladies, that mule
is 1 they replied with tears, and
said, This mule, which you see,
was our brother, born of this same
mother as we :
14 For when our father died,
and left us a very large estate,
and we had only this brother,
and we endeavoured to procure
him a suitable match, and thought
he should be married as other
men, some giddy and jealous wo
man bewitched him without our
knowledge.
15 And we, one night, a little
before day, while the doors of the
house were all fast shut, saw this
our brother was changed into a
mule, such as you now see him
to be :
16 And we, in the melancholy
condition in which you see us,
having no father to comfort us,
have applied to all the wise men,
magicians, and diviners in the
world, but they have been of no
service to us.
17 As often therefore as we
find ourselves oppressed with grief,
we rise and go with this our mo
ther to our father's tomb, where,
when we have cried sufficiently
we return home.
18 When the girl had heard
this, she said, Take courage,
and cease your fears, for you
have a remedy for your afflic
tions near at hand, even among
you and in the midst of your
house,
19 For I was also leprous; but
45
A bewitched young man
when I saw this woman, and this
'little infant with her, whose name
is Jesus, Isprinkled my body with
the water with which his mother
had washed him, and I was pre
sently made well.
20 And I am certain that he
is also capable of relieving you
under your distress. Wherefore,
arise, go to my mistress, Mary,
and when you have brought her
into your own parlour, disclose to
her the secret, at the same time,
earnestly beseeching her to com
passionate your case.
21 As soon as the women had
heard the girl's discourse, they
hastened away to the Lady St.
Mary, introduced themselves to
her, and sitting down before her,
they wept.
22 And said, O our Lady St.
Mary, pity your handmaids, for
we have no head of our family, no
one older than us; no father, or
brother to go in and out before us.
23 But this mule, which you
see, was our brother, which some
woman by witchcraft have brought
into this condition which you see:
we therefore entreat you to com
passionate us.
24 Hereupon St. Mary was
grieved at their case, and taking
I. INFANCY. restored and married
kissed him, and said, Blessed in
thy mother, O Jesus, O Saviour
of the world ! Blessed are the
eyes which are so happy as to
see thee.
28 Then both the sisters told
their mother, saying, Of a truth
our brother is restored to his for
mer shape by the help of the Lord
Jesus Christ, and the kindness of
that girl, who told us of Mary and
her son.
29 And inasmuch as our bro
ther is unmarried, it is fit that
we marry him to this girl their
servant.
30 When they had consulted
Mary in this matter, and she had
given her consent, they made a
splendid wedding for this girl.
31 And so their sorrow being
turned into gladness, and their
mourning into mirth, they began
to rejoice, and to make merry, and
sing, being dressed in their richest
attire, with bracelets.
32 Afterwards they glorified
and praised God, saying, O Jesus
son of David who changest sor
row into gladness, and mourning
into mirth !
33 After this Joseph and Mary
tarried there ten days, then went
away, having received great res
the Lord Jesus, put him upon the pect from those people;
back of the mule.
25 And said to her son, O Jesus |
Christ, restore (or heal) according
to thy extraordinary power this
mule, and grant him to have again
the shape of a man and a rational
creature, as he had formerly
26 This was scarce said by the
Lady St. Mary, but the mule im
mediately passed into a human
form, and became a young man
without any deformity.
27 Then he and his mother
and the sisters worshipped the
Lady St Mary, and lifting the
child upon their heads, they
34 Who, when they took their
leave of them, and returned home,
cried,
35 But especially the girl.
CHAP. VIII.
1 Joseph and Mary pass through a coun
try infested by robbers. 3 Titus, a
humane thief, offers Dumachus, his
comrade, forty groats to let Joseph and
Mary pass unmolested. 6 Jesus pro:
phecies that the thieves, Dumachus and
Titus, shall be crucifed with hire, and
that Titus shall go before him into
Paradise. 10 Christ causes a well to
spring from a sycamore tree, and
Mary washes his coat in it. , 11 A bal.
sam grows there from his sweat.
! (;
The too thieves.
They go to Memphis, where Christ
works more miracles. Return to Ju
doec. 15 being warned, depart for
Nazareth.
N their journey from hence
they came into a desert coun
try, and were told it was infested
with robbers; so Joseph and St.
Mary prepared to pass through it
in the night.
2 And as they were going
along, behold they saw two rob
bers asleep in, the road, and with
them a great number of robbers,
who were their confederates, also
asleep.
3 The names of these two were
Titus and Dumachus; and Titus
said to Dumachus, I beseech thee
let those persons go along quietly,
$hat our company may not per
ceive anything of them :
3 But Dumachus refusing, Titus
again said, I will give thee forty
groats, and as a pledge take my
girdle, which he gave him before
he had done speaking, that he
might not open his mouth, or
make a noise.
5 When the Lady St. Mary
saw the kindness which this rob
her did shew them, she said to
him, The Lord God will receive
thee to his right hand, and grant
thee pardon of thy sins.
6 Then the Lord Jesus an
swered, and said to his mother,
When thirty years are expired, O
mother, the Jews will crucify me
at Jerusalem;
7 And these two thieves shall
bewith me at the same time upon
the cross, Titus on my right hand,
and Dumachus on my left, and
from that time Titus shall go be
fore me into paradise:
8 And when she had said,God
forbid this should be thy lot, O
my son, they went on to a city
in which were several idols;
which, as soon as they came
I. INFANCY. The sick healed
near to it, was turned into hills
of sand.
9 T Hence they went to that
sycamore tree, which is now called
Matarea;
10 And in Matarea the Lord
Jesus caused a well to spring
forth, in which St. Mary washed
his coat;
11 And a balsam is produced,
or grows, in that country, from
the sweat which ran down there
from the Lord Jesus.
12 Thence they proceeded to
Memphis, and saw Pharoah, and
abode three years in Egypt.
13 And the Lord Jesus did
very many miracles in Egypt,
which are neither to be found in
the Gospel of the Infancy nor in
the Gospel of Perfection.
14 || At the end of three years
he returned out of Egypt, and
when he came near to Judaea,
Joseph was afraid to enter;
15 For hearing that Herod
was dead, and that Archelaus his
son reigned in his stead, he was
afraid;
16 And when he went to Ju.
daea, an angel of God appeared
to him, and said, O Joseph, go
into the city Nazareth, and abide
there..
17 It is strange indeed that he,
who is the Lord of all countries,
should be thus carried backward
and forward through so many
countries.
CHAP. IX.
2 Two sick children cured by water
wherein Christ was washed.
HEN they came afterwards
into the city Bethlehem,
they found there several very
desperate distempers, which be.
came so troublesome to children
by seeing them, that most of them
died.
2 There was there a woman
who had a sick son, whom she
47
Christ's water cures
brought, when he was at the point
of death, to the Lady St. Mary,
who saw her when she was wash.
ing Jesus Christ.
3 Then said the woman, O my
Lady Mary, look down upon this
my son, who is afflicted with most
dreadful pains.
4 St. Mary hearing her, said,
take a little of that water with
which I have washed my son, and
sprinkle it upon him.
5 Then she took a little of that
water, as St. Mary had com
manded, and sprinkled it upon
iter son, who being wearied with
his violent pains, had fallen asleep;
and after he had slept a little,
awaked perfectly well and re
covered.
6. The mother being abundantly
glad of this success, went again
to St. Mary, and St. Mary said
to her, Give praise to God, who
hath cured this thy son.
7 There was in the same place
another woman, a neighbour of
her, whose son was now cured.
8 This woman's son was af.
flicted with the same disease, and
his eyes were now almost quite
shut, and she was lamenting for
him day and night. -
9 The mother of the child
which was cured, said to her,
Why do you not bring your son to
St. Mary, as I brought my son to
her, when he was in the agonies
of death; and he was cured by
that water, with which the body
of her son Jesus was washed?
10 When the woman heard
her say this, she also went, and
having procured the same water,
washed her son with it, where
upon his body and his eyes were
instantly restored to their former
state.
11 And when she brought her
son to St. Mary, and opened his
case to her, she commanded her
I. INFANCY. Caleb's miraculous cura
to give thanks to Uod for the re
covery of her son's health, and tell
no one what had happened.
CHAP. X.
1 Two wives of one man, each have a
son sick, 2 One of then, named Mary,
and whose son's name was Caleb,
presents the Virgin with a kandsome
carpet, and Caleb is cured; but the son
ofthe other wife dies, 4 which ocessions
tº difference between the women. 5 The
other wife puts Caleb into a kot oren,
and he is miraculously preserved; 9
she afterwards throws him into a
well, and he is again preverred ; 11 his
mother appeals to the Virgin against
the viher wife, 12 whose downfall the
Virgin prophecies, 13 and who accord.
ingly falls into the well, 14 therein ful.
Jilling a saying qf old.
HERE were in the same city
two wives of one man, who
had each a son sick. One of them
was called Mary and her son's
name was Caleb.
2. She arose, and taking her
son, went to the Lady St Mary,
the mother of Jesus, and offered
her a very handsome carpet, say
ing, O my Lady Mary accept this
carpet of me, and instead of it
give me a small swaddling cloth.
3 To this Mary agreed, and
when the mother of Caleb was
gone, she made a coat for her son
of the swaddling cloth, put it on
him, and his disease was cured;
but the son of the other wife
died.
4 'ſ Hereupon there arose be
tween them, a difference in doing
the business of the family byturns,
each her week.
5 And when the turn of Mary
the mother of Caleb came, and she
was heating the oven to bake
bread, and went away to fetch the
meal, she left her son Caleb by
the oven;
6 Whom, the other wife, her
48
Caleb's life twice saved.
rival, seeing to be by himself,
took and cast him into the oven,
which was very hot, and then
went away.
7 Mary on her return saw her
son Caleb lying in the middle of
the oven laughing, and the oven
quite as cold as though it had not
‘been before heated, and knew
that her rival the other wife had
thrown him into the fire.
8 When she took him out, she
brought him to the Lady St.
Mary, and told her the story,
to whom she replied, Be
quiet, I am concerned lest
thou shouldest make this matter
known.
9 After this her rival, the other
wife, as she was drawing water at
the well, and saw Caleb playing
by the well, and that no one was
near, took him, and threw hill,
into the well.
10 And when some men calme
to fetch water from the well, they
saw the boy sitting on the super
ticies of the water, and drew him
out with ropes, and were exceed
ingly surprised at the child, and
praised God.
11 Then came the mother and
took him and carried him to the
Lady St. Mary, lamenting and
saying, O my Lady, see what
‘my rival hath done to my son,
and how she hath cast him
into the well, and I do not
question but one time or other
she will be the occasion of his
death.
12 St. Mary replied to her,
God will vindicate your injured
cause.
13 Accordingly a few days
after, when the other wife came
to the well to draw water, her foot
was entangled in the rope, so that
she fell headlong into the well,
I. INFANCY. Infant Bartholomew cured
and they who ran to her assist
ance, found her skull broken, and
bones bruised.
14 So she came to a bad end,
and in her was fulfilled that say.
ing of the author, They digged a
well, and made it deep, but fell
themselves into the pit which
they prepared.
CHAP. XI.
1 Bartholomew, when a child and sick,
miraculously restored by being laid on
Christ's bed.
NOTHER woman in that
city had likewise two sons
sick.
2 And when one was dead, the
other, who lay at the point of
death, she took in her arms to the
Lady St. Mary, and in a flood of
tears addressed herself to her,
saying,
3 O my Lady, help and relieve
me; for I had two sons, the one
I have just now buried, the other
I see is just at the point of death,
behold how I º seek
favour from God, and pray to
him.
4 Then she said, O Lord, thou
art gracious, and merciful, and
kind; thou hast given me two
sons; one of them thou hast
taken to thyself, O spare me this
other.
5 St. Mary then perceiving the
greatness of her sorrow, pitied her
and said, Do thou place thy son
in my son's bed, and cover him
with his clothes.
6 And when she had placed
him in the bed wherein Christ
lay, at the moment when his eyes
were just closed by death; as
soon as ever the smell of the gar
ments of the Lord Jesus Christ
reached the boy, his eyes were
opened, and calling with a loud
7 49
Leprous woman Healed. I. INFANCY. Leprous princess cured by
voice to his mother, he asked for
bread, and when he had received
it, he sucked it.
7 Then his mother said, O
Lady Mary, now I am assured
that the powers of God do dwell
in you, so that thy son can cure
children who are of the same sort
as himself, as soon as they touch
his garments.
8 This boy who was thus
cured, is the same who in the
Gospel is called Bartholomew.
CHAP. XII.
1 A leprous woman healed by Christ's
washing water. 7 A princess healed
by it and restored to her husband.
GAIN there was a leprous
woman who went to the
Lady St. Mary, the mother of
Jesus, and said, O my Lady,
help me.
2 St. Mary replied, what help
dost thou desire? Is it gold or
silver, or that thy body be cured
of its leprosy!
3 Who, says the woman, can
grant me this?
4 St. Mary replied to her, Wait
a little till I have washed my son
Jesus, and put him to bed.
5 The woman waited, as she
was commanded; and Mary when
she had put Jesus in bed, giving
her the water with which she
had washed his body, said, Take
some of the water, and pour it
upon thy body;
6 Which when she had done,
she instantly became clean, and
praised God, and gave thanks to
him.
7 * Then she went away, after
she had abode with her three
days:
8 And going into the city, she
saw a certain prince, who had
married another prince's daughter;
9 But when he came to see her,
he perceived between her eyes
the signs of leprosy like a star,
and thereupon declared the mar
riage dissolved and void.
10. When the woman saw these
persons in this condition, exceed
ly sorrowful, and shedding abun
dance of tears, she inquired of
then the reason of their cry
ing.
11 They replied, Inquire not
into our circumstances; for we
are not able to declare our
misfortunes to any person what
SOever.
12 But still she pressed and
desired them to communicate their
case to her, intimating, that per
haps she might be able to direct
them to a remedy.
13 So when they shewed the
young woman to her, and the signs
of the leprosy, which appeared
between her eyes,
14 She said, I also, whom ye
see in this place, was afflicted with
the same distemper, and going on
some business to Bethlehem, I
went into a certain cave, and saw
a woman named Mary, who had
a son called Jesus.
15 She seeing me to be leprous,
was concerned for me, and gave
me some water with which she
had washed her son's body; with
that I sprinkled my body, and
became clean.
16 Then said these women,
Will you Mistress, go along with
us, and shew the Lady St. Mary
to us!
17 To which she consenting,
they arose and went to the Lady
St. Mary, taking with them very
noble presents.
18 And when they came in
50
Christ's washing water.
and offered their presents to her,
they shewed the leprous young
woman whom they brought with
them to her.
19 Then said St. Mary, The
mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ
rest upon you;
20 And giving them a little of
that water with which she had
washed the body of Jesus Christ,
she bade them wash the diseased
person with it; which when they
had done, she was presently
cured ;
21 So they, and all who were
present, praised God; and being
filled with joy, they went back to
their own city, and gave praises to
God on that account. -
22 Then the prince hearing that
his wife was cured, took her home
and made a second marriage, giv
ing thanks unto God for the re
covery of his wife's health.
CHAP. XIII.
1 A girl, whose blood Satan sucked, re
ceives one of Christ's swaddling clothes
from the Virgin, 14 Satan comes like
a dragon, and she shews it to him ;
James and burning coals proceed from
it and fall upon him; 19 he is mira
oulously discomfited, and leaves the
girl.
HERE was also a girl, who
was afflicted by Satan ;
2 For that cursed spirit did fre
quently appear to her in the shape
of a dragon, and was inclined to
swallow her up, and had so sucked
out all her blood, that she looked
like a dead carcase.
3. As often as she came to her
self, with her hands wringed about
her head she would cry out, and
say, Wo, Wo is me, that there is
no one to be found who can deli
ver me from that impious dra
gon
I. INFANCY. God whose blood
4 Her father and mother, and
all who were about her and saw
her, mourned and wept over
her ;
5 And all who were present
would especially be under sorrow
and in tears, when they heard
her bewailing, and saying, My
brethren and friends, is there no
one who can deliver me from this
murderer?
6 Then the prince's daughter,
who had been cured of her lepro
sy, hearing the complaint of that
girl, went upon the top of her
castle, and saw her with her hands
twisted about her head, pouring
out a flood of tears, and all the
people that were about her in sor
rOW.
7 Then she asked the husband
of the possessed person, Whether
his wife's mother was alive He
told her, That her father and mo
ther were both alive.
8 Then she ordered her mother
to be sent to her : to whom, when
she saw her coming, she said, Is
this possessed girl thy daughter 1
She moaning and bewailing said,
Yes, madam, I bore her.
9 The prince's daughter an.
swered, Disclose the secret of her
case to me, for I confess to you
that I was leprous, but the Lady
Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ,
healed me.
10 And if you desire your
daughter to be restored to her for
mer state, take her to Bethlehem,
and enquire for Mary the mother
of Jesus, and doubt not but your
daughter will be cured; for I do
not question but you will come
home with great joy at your
daughter's recovery.
11 As soon as ever she had
done speaking, she arose and went
with her daughter to the place ap
51
Satan sucked, cured.
[. and to Mary, and told
er the case of her daughter.
12 When St. Mary had heard
her story, she gave her a little of
the water with which she had
washed the body of her son Jesus,
and bade her pour it upon the
body of her daughter.
13 Likewise she gave her one
of the swaddling cloths of the
Lord Jesus, and said, Take this
swaddling cloth and shew it to
thine enemy as often as thou
seest him ; and she sent them
away in peace.
14 "I After they had left that
city and returned home, and the
time was come in which Satan was
wont to seize her, in the same
moment this cursed spirit appear
ed to her in thc shape of a huge
dragon, and the girl seeing him
was afraid.
15 The mother said to her, Be
not afraid, daughter; let him alone
till he come nearer to thee then
shew him the swaddling cloth,
which the Lady Mary gave us,
and we shall see the event.
16 Satan then coming like a
dreadful dragon, the body of the
girl trembled for fear.
17 But as soon as she had put
the swaddling cloth upon her
head, and about her eyes, and
shewed it to him, presently there
issued forth from the swaddling
cloth flames and burning coals,
and fell upon the dragon.
18 Oh how great a miracle
was this, which was done: as
soon as the dragon saw the swad
dling cloth of the Lord Jesus, fire
went forth and was scattered upon
his head and eyes; so that he
cried out with a loud voice, What
have I to do with thee, Jesus,
thou son of Mary, Whither shall
I flee from thee?
I. INFANCY. Jesus struck by Judas.
19 So he drew back much af.
frighted, and left the girl.
20 And she was delivered from
this trouble, and sang praises and
thanks to God, and with her all
who were present at the working
of the miracle.
CHAP. XIV.
1 Judas when a boy possessed by Satan,
and brought by his parents to Jesus to
be cured, whom he tries to bite, 7
but failing, strikes Jesus and makes
him cry out. Whereupon Satan goer
from Jesus in the shape of a dog.
NOTHER woman likewise
lived there, whose son was
possessed by Satan.
2 This boy, named Judas, as
often as Satan seized him, was in
clined to bite all that were pre
sent; and if he found no one else
near him, he would bite his own
hands and other parts.
3 But the mother of this miser
able boy, hearing of St. Mary
and her son Jesus, arose presently,
and taking her son in her arms,
brought him to the Lady Mary.
4 In the meantime, James and
Joses had taken away the infant,
the Lord Jesus, to play at a pro
per season with other children,
and when they went forth, they
sat down and the Lord Jesus with
them.
5 Then Judas, who was pos
sessed, came and sat down at the
right hand of Jesus.
6 When Satan was acting upon
him as usual, he went about to
bite the Lord Jesus.
7 And because he could not
do it, he struck Jesus on the right
side, so that he cried out.
8 And in the same moment
Satan went out of the boy, and
ran away like a mad dog.
9 This same boy who struck
52
Animates clay figures.
Jesus, and out of whom Satan
went in the form of a dog, was
Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him
to the Jews.
10 And that same side, on
which Judas struck him, the Jews
pierced with a spear.
CHAP. XV.
1 Jesus and other boys play together,
and make clay figures of animals. .. 4
Jesus causes them to walk, 6 also
makes clay birds, which he causes to jºy,
and eat and drink. 7 the children's
parents alarmed, and take Jesus for a
sorcerer. 8 He goes to a dyer's shop,
and throws all the cloths into the fur
nace, and works a miracle therewith.
15 Whereupon the Jewspraise God.
NI) when the Lord Jesus
was seven years of age, he
was on a certain day with other
boys his companions about the
same age.
2 Who when they were at play,
made clay into several shapes,
namely, asses, oxen, birds, and
other figures,
3 Each boasting of his work,
and endeavouring to exceed the
rest.
4 Then the Lord Jesus said to
the boys, I will command these
figures which I have made to
walk.
5 And immediately they moved,
and when he commanded them to
return, they returned.
6 He had also made the figures
of birds and sparrows, which,
when he commanded to fly, did
fly, and when he commanded to
stand still, did stand still ; and if
he gave them meat and drink, they
did eat and drink.
7 When at length the boys
went away, and related these
things to their parents, their fa
thers said to them, Take heed,
I. INFANCY. Christ miraculously alters
children, for the future, of his com
pany, for he is a sorcerer; shun
and avoid him, and from hence
forth never play with him.
8 "I On a certain day also,
when the Lord Jesus was playing
with the boys, and running about,
he passed by a dyer's shop, whose
name was Salem.
9 And there were in his shop
many pieces of cloth belonging to
the people of that city, which
they designed to dye of several
colours.
10 Then the Lord Jesus going
into the dyer's shop, took all the
cloths, and threw them into the
furnace.
ll. When Salem came home,
and saw the cloths spoiled, he
began to make a great noise, and
to chide the Lord Jesus, saying,
12 What hast thou done to me,
O thou Son of Mary? Thou hast
injured both me and my neigh.
bours; they all desired their
cloths of a proper colour; but
thou hast come, and spoiled them
13 The Lord Jesus replied, I
will change the colour of every
cloth to what colour thou de
sirest;
14 And then he presently be
gan to take the cloths out of the
furnace, and they were all dyed
of those same colours which the
dyer desired.
15 And when the Jews saw
this surprising miracle, they
praised God.
CHAP. XVI.
1 Christ miraculously widens or contract
the gates, milk-pails, sieves, or boxes,
not properly made by Joseph, 4 he not
being skilful at his carpenter's trade.
5 The King of Jerusalem gives Joseph
an order for a throne. 6 Joseph works
53
Joseph's bad carpentry.
on it for two years in the king's palace,
and makes it two spans too short. The
1 ºng bring angry with him, 10 Jesus
comforts him, 13 communds him to pull
one side of the thrºne, while he pulls
the other, and brinys it to its proper
dimensions. 14 Whereupon the by
stawa, rs praise God.
ND Joseph, wheresoever he
went in the city, took the
Lord Jesus with him, where he
was sent for to work to make
gates, or milk-pails, or sieves, or
boxes; the Lord Jesus was with
him wheresoever he went.
2 And as often as Joseph had
anything in his work, to make
longer or shorter, or wider, or
narrower, the Lord Jesus would
stretch his hand towards it.
3 And presently it became as
Joseph would have it.
4 So that he had no need to
finish anything with his own
hands, for he was not very skilful
at his carpenter's trade.
5 *|| On a certain time the
King of Jerusalem sent for him,
and said, I would have thee make
me a throne of the same dimen
sions with that place in which I
commonly sit.
6 Joseph obeyed, and forth
with began the work, and con
tinued two years in the king's
palace before he finished it.
7 And when he came to fix it
in its place, he found it wanted
two spans on each side of the ap
pointed measure.
8 Which, when the king saw,
he was very angry with Joseph;
9 And Joseph afraid of the
king's anger, went to bed without
his supper, taking not anything
to eat.
10 Then the Lord Jesus asked
him, What he was afraid of
ll Joseph replied, Because I
have lost my labour in the work
1 NFA NCY. Christ's miracles at play.
which I have been about these
two years.
12 Jesus said to him, Fear not,
neither be cast down ;
13 Do thou lay hold on one
side of the throne, and I will the
other, and we will bring it to its
just dimensions.
14 And when Joseph had done
as the Lord Jesus said, and each
of them had with strength drawn
his side, the throne obeyed, and
was brought to the proper dimen
sions of the place :
15 Which miracle when they
who stood by saw, they were
astonished, and praised God.
16 The throne was made of
the same wood, which was in
being in Solomon's time, namely,
wood adorned with various shapes
and figures.
CHAP. XVII.
1 Jesus plays with boys at hide and seek.
3 Some women put his playfellows in a
furnace, 7 where they are transformed
by Jesus into kids. 10 Jesus calls
them to go and play, and they are
restored to their former shape.
N another day the Lord
Jesus going out into the
street, and seeing some boys who
were met to play, joined himself
to their company:
2. But when they saw him, they
hid themselves, and left him to
seek for them ;
3 The Lord Jesus came to the
gate of a certain house, and asked
some women who were standing
there, Where the boys were
gone?
4 And when they answered,
That there was no one there; the
Lord Jesus said, Who are those
whom ye see in the furnace?
5 They answered, They were
kids of three years old.
54
boy poisoned
6 Then Jesus cried out aloud,
and said, Come out hither, O ye
kids, to your shepherd;
7 And presently the boys came
forth like kids, and leaped about
him ; which when the women
saw, they were exceedingly
amazed, and trembled.
8 Then they immediately wor
shipped the Lord Jesus, and be
seeched him, saying, O our Lord
Jesus, son of Mary, thou art truly
that good shepherd of Israel !
have mercy on thy handmaids,
who stand before thee, who do
not doubt, but that thou, O Lord,
art come to save, and not to
destroy.
9 After that, when the Lord
Jesus said, the children of Israel
are like Ethiopians among the
people; the women said, Thou,
Lord, knowest all things, nor is
any thing concealed from thee;
but now we entreat thee, and be
seech of thy mercy, that thou
wouldest restore those boys to
their former state.
10 Then Jesus said, Come hi
ther O boys, that we may go
and play; and immediately,
in the presence of these women,
the kids were changed, and
returned into the shape of
boys.
CHAP. XVIII.
1 Jesus becomes the king of his playfel
love, and they crown him with flowers,
4 miraculously causes a serpent who
had bitten Simon the Canaanite, then a
boy, to suck out all the poison again;
16 the serpent bursts, and Christ
restores the boy to health.
N the month Adar Jesus ga.
thered together the boys, and
ranked them as though he had
been a king.
I. INFANCY. oy a serpent.
2 For they spread their
garments on the ground for
him to sit on ; and having
made a crown of flowers, put it
upon his head, and stood on his
right and left as the guards of a
king;
3 And if any one happened to
pass by, they took him by force,
and said, Come hither, and wor
ship the king, that you may have
a prosperous journey.
4 * In the mean time, while
these things were doing, there
came certain men, carrying a boy
upon a couch ;
5 For this boy having gone
with his companions to the
mountain to gather wood, and
having found there a partridge's
nest, and put his hand in to take
out the eggs, was stung by a
poisonous serpent, which leaped
out of the nest ; so that he was
forced to cry out for the help
of his companions: who, when
they came, found him lyin
upon the earth like a d
person.
6 After which his neighbours
came and carried him back into
the city.
7 But when they came to
the place where the Lord Jesus
was sitting like a king, and the
other boys stood around him
like his ministers, the boys
made haste to meet him, who
was bitten by the serpent, and
said to his neighbours, Come
and pay your respects to the
king ; -
8 But when, by reason of
their sorrow, they refused to
come, the boys drew them, and
forced them against their wills to
COme.
9 And when they came to
55
Christ at play.
the Lord Jesus, he inquired
On what account they carried that
boy
10 And when they answered,
that a serpent had bitten him,
the Lord Jesus said to the
boys, Let us go and kill that
serpent.
11 But when the parents of
the boy desired to be excused,
because their son lay at the point
pf death; the boys made answer,
and said, Did not ye hear what
the king said? Let us go and
kill the serpent ; and will not ye
obey him ;
12 So they brought the couch
back again, whether they would
or not.
13 And when they were come
to the nest, the Lord Jesus
said to the boys, Is this the ser
pent's lurking place | They said,
It was.
14 Then the Lord Jesus calling
the serpent, it presently came
forth and submitted to him; to
whom he said, Go and suck out
all the poison which thou hast
infused into that boy;
15 So the serpent crept to the
boy, and took away all its poison
a1n.
16 Then the Lord Jesus cursed
the serpent so that it immediately
burst asunder, and died.
17 And he touched the boy
with his hand to restore him to
his former health;
18 And when he began to cry,
the Lord Jesus said, Cease crying,
for hereafter thon shalt be my
disciple,
19 And this is that Simon the
Cananite, who is mentioned in
the Gospel.
CHAP. XIX.
1 James being bitten by a viper, Jesus
Motes on the round and cures him. 4
[.. INFANCY. Mukes a di ud boy speak
Jesus charged with throwing a boy
Jrom the roof of a house, 10 miracu
lously causes the dead boy to acquxt
him, 12 frtches water for his mother,
breaks the pitcher and miraculously
gathers the water in his mantle and
brings it home, 16 makes fish-pools
on the sa 'bath, 20 causes a boy to die
who broke them down, 22 another boy
runs against him, whom he also cuuses
to die.
O N another day Joseph sent.
his son James to gather
wood and the Lord Jesus went
with him;
2 And when they came to the
place where the wood was, and
James began to gather it, behold,
a venomous viper bit him, so that
he began to cry, and make a
noise. -
3 The Lord Jesus seeing him,
in this condition, came to him,
and blowed upon the place where
the viper had bit him, and it was
instantly well.
4. "I On a certain day the Lord
Jesus was with some boys, who
were playing on the house-top,
and one of the boys fell down,
and presently died.
5 Upon which the other boys
all running away, the Lord Jesus
was left alone on the house
top.
6 And the boy's relations came
to him and said to the Lord Jesus
Thou didst throw our son down
from the house-top.
7 But he denying it, they cried
out, Our son is dead, and this is
he who killed him.
8 The Lord Jesus replied to
them, Do not charge me with a
crime, of which you are not able to
convict me, but let us go ask the
boy himself, who will bring the
truth to light.
9 Then the Lord Jesus going
down stood over the head of the
dead boy, and said with a loud
56
Gathers spilt water.
voice, Zeinunus, Zeinunus, who
threw thee down from the house
top |
10 Thenthe dead boyanswered,
thou didst not throw me down,
but such a one did.
11 And when the Lord Jesus
bade those who stood by to take
notice of his words, all who were
present praised God on account of
that miracle.
12 ºſ On a certain time the
Lady St. Mary had commanded
the Lord Jesus to fetch her some
water out of the well ;
13 And when he had gone to
fetch the water, the pitcher, when
it was brought up full, brake.
14 But Jesus spreading his
mantle gathered up the water
again, and brought it in that to
his mother.
15 Who, being astonished at
this wonderful thing, laid up this,
and all the other things which she
had seen, in her memory.
16 °ſ Again on another day
the Lord Jesus was with some
boys by a river and they drew
water out of the river by little
channels, and made little fish.
pools.
17 But the Lord Jesus had
made twelve sparrows, and placed
them about his pool on each side,
three on a side.
18 But it was the Sabbath day,
and the son of Hanania Jew came
by, and saw them making these
thing, and said, Do ye thus
make figures of clay on the Sab
bath ; And he ran to them, and
broke down their fish-pools.
19 But when the Lord Jesus
clapped his hands over the spar
rows which he had made, they
fled away chirping.
20 At length the son of Hanani
I. INFANCY.
coming to the fish-pool of Jesus
to destroy it, the water vanished
Kills a playfellow.
away, and the Lord Jesus said to
him,
21 In like manner as this water
has vanished, so shall thy life.
vanish ; and presently the boy.
died.
22 "I Another time, when the
Lord Jesus was coming home in
the evening with Joseph, he met
a boy, who ran so hard against
him, that he threw him down ;
23 To whom the Lord Jesus
said, As thou hast thrown me
down, so shalt thou fall, nor ever
rise.
24 And that moment the boy
fell down and died.
CHAP. XX.
4 Sent to school to Zaccheus to learn his
letters, and teaches Zaccheus. 13 Sent
to another schoolmaster, 14 refuses to
tell his letters, and the schoolmaster
going to whip him his hand wither,
and he dies.
HERE was also at Jerusalem,
one named Zaccheus, who
was a schoolmaster.
2 And he said to Joseph, Jo.
seph, why dost thou not send
Jesus to me, that he may learn
his letters?
3 Joseph agreed, and told St.
Mary;
4 So they brought him to that
master; who, as soon as he saw
him, wrote out an alphabet for
him.
5 And he bade him say Aleph ;
and when he had said Aleph, the
master bade him pronounce Beth.
6 Then the Lord Jesus said to
him, Tell me first the meaning of
the letter Aleph, and then I will
pronounce Beth.
7 And when the master threat
ened to whip him, the Lord Jesus
explained to him the meaning of
the letters Aleph and Beth ;
8 Also which were the straight.
57
Kills his schoolmasters.
figures of the letters, which the
oblique, and what letters had dou
ble figures; which had points, and
which had none ; why one letter
went before another; and many
other things he began to tell him,
and explain, of which the master
himself had never heard, nor read
in any book.
9 The Lord Jesus farther said
to the master, Take notice how I
say to thee; then he began clearly
and distinctly to say Aleph, Beth,
Gimel, Daleth, and so on to the
end of the alphabet.
10 At this the master was so
surprised, that he said, I believe
this boy was born before Noah ;
ll And turning to Joseph, he
said, Thou hast brought a boy to
me to be taught, who is more
learned than any master.
12 He said also unto St. Mary,
This your son has no need of any
learning.
13 * They brought him then
to a more learned master, who,
when he saw him, said, say Aleph.
14 And when he had said Aleph,
the master bade him pronounce
Beth; to which the Lord Jesus
replied, Tell me first the meaning
of the letter Aleph, and then I
will pronounce Beth.
15 But this master, when he
lift up his hand to whip him, had
his hand presently withered, and
he died.
16 Then said Joseph to St.
Mary, Henceforth we will not
allow him to go out of the house;
for every one who displeases him
is killed.
CHAP. XXI.
l Disputes miraculously with the doctors
in the temple, 7 on taw, 9 on astronomy,
12 on physics and metaphysics, 21 is
worshipped by a philosopher, 28 and
fetched home by his mother.
I. INFANCY. Disputes with the doctors.
ND when he was twelve year?
old, they brought him to
Jerusalem to the feast ; and when
the feast was over, they returned.
2. But the Lord Jesus con
tinued behind in the temple
among the doctors and elders,
and learned men of Israel; to
whom he proposed several ques
tions of learning, and also gave
them answers:
3 For he said to them, Whose
son is the Messiah? They an
swered, the son of David :
4 Why then, said he, does he
in the spirit call him Lord? when
he saith, The Lord said to my
Lord, sit thou at my right hand,
till I have made thine enemies thy
footstool.
5 Then a certain principal
Rabbi asked him, Hast thou read
books?
6 Jesus answered, he had read
both books, and the things which
were contained in books.
7 And he explained to them
the books of the law, and pre
cepts, and statutes: and the mys
teries which are contained in the
books of the prophets; things
which the mind of no creature
could reach.
8 Then said that Rabbi, I never
yet have seen or heard of such
knowledge | What do you think
that boy will be
9 * When a certain astrono
mer, who was present, asked the
Lord Jesus, Whether he had
studied astronomy?
10 The Lord Jesus replied, and
told him the number of the
spheres and heavenly bodies, as
also their triangular, square, and
sextile aspect; their progressive
and retrograde motion ; their
size and several prognostications;
and other things which the reason
of man had never discovered.
58
and confounds them.
11 * There was also among
them a philosopher well skilled in
physic and natural philosophy,
who asked the Lord Jesus, Whe
ther he had studied physic
12 He replied, and explained
to him physics and metaphysics.
13 Also those things which
were above and below the power
of nature ;
14 The powers also of the
body, its humours, and their
effects.
15 Also the number of its
members, and bones, veins, arteries,
and nerves : -
16 The several constitutions of
body, hot and dry, cold and moist,
and the tendencies of them;
17 How the soul operated upon
the body;
18 What its various sensations
and faculties were ;
19 The faculty of speaking,
anger, desire ;
20 And lastly the manner of
its composition and dissolution ;
and other things, which the un
derstanding of no creature had
ever reached.
21 Then that philosopher arose,
and worshipped the Lord Jesus,
and said, O Lord Jesus, from
henceforth I will be thy disciple
and servant.
22 "I While they were dis
coursing on these and such like
things, the Lady St. Mary came
in, having been three days walk
ing about with Joseph, seeking
for him.
23 And when she saw him sit
ting among the doctors, and in
his turn proposing questions to
them, and giving answers, she said
to him, My son, why hast thou
done thus by us? Behold I and
thy father have been at much
pains in seeking thee.
I. INFANCY. Is baptized.
24 He replied, Why did ye
seek me? I)id ye not know that
I ought to be employed in my
father's house !
25 But they understood not
the words which he said to them.
26 Then the doctors asked
Mary, Whether this were her son?
And when she said, He was, they
said, O happy Mary, who hast
borne such a son.
27 Then he returned with them
to Nazareth, and obeyed them in
all things.
28 And his mother kept all
these things in her mind;
29 And the Lord Jesus grew in
stature and wisdom, and favour
with God and man.
CHAP. XXII.
1 Conceals his miracles, 2 studies the
law, 3 and is baptized
OW from this time Jesus
began to conceal his miracles
and secret works,
2 And gave himself to the
study of the law, till he arrived to
the end of his thirtieth year;
3. At which time the Father
publicly owned him at Jordan,
sending down this voice froln
heaven, This is my beloved son,
in whom I am well pleased ;
4 The Holy Ghost being also
present in the form of a dove
5 This is he whom we worship
with all reverence, because he
gave us our life and being, and
brought us from our mother "
womb.
6 Who, for our sakes, took s
human body, and hath redeerine'ſ
us, that so he might so embrace us
with everlasting mercy, and shew
his free, large, bountilul grave
and goodness to us,
7 To him be glory and praise,
59
Christ enlivens clay II. INFANCY. birds, kills a low.
and power, and dominion, from | | . The end ºf the whole. Gospel of the
henceforth and for evermore,
Amen.
Infancy, by the assistance of the
Supreme God, according to what wer
found in the original.
-->
THOMAS'S GOSPEL of the INFANCY of JESUS
CHRIST.
[The original in Greek, from which this translation is made, will be found
F. by Cotelerius, in his notes on the constitutions of the Apostles,
rom a MS. in the French King's Library, No. 2279—It is attributed to
Thomas, and conjectured to have been originally connected with the
Gospel of Mary.]
* An Account of the Actions
and MIRACLEs of our Lord
CIIAP. I.
2 Jesus miraculously clears the water
after rain. 4 plays with clay sparrows,
which he animates on the sabbath day.
THOMAS, an Israelite judged
it necessary to make known
to our brethren among the Gen
tiles, the actions and miracles of
Christ in his childhood, which
our Lord and God Jesus Christ
wrought after his birth in 13ethle
hem in our country, at which I
myself was astonished ; the be
ginning of which was as fol
loweth.
2 *ſ When the child Jesus was
five years of age, and there had
been a shower of rain, which was
now over, Jcsus was playing with
other Hebrew boys by a running
stream, and the water running
over the banks, stood in little
lakes;
3 But the water instantly be
came clear and useful again; he
having smote them only by his
word, they readily obeyed him.
4 Then he took from the bank
of the stream some soft clay, and
formed out of it twelve sparrows;
and Saviour Jesus CHRIST in
his INFANcy.
and there were other boys playing
with him.
5 But a certain Jew seeing the
things which he was doing,
namely, his forming clay into the
figures of sparrows on the sab
bath day, went presently away,
and told his father Joseph, and
said,
6 Behold, thy boy is playing
by the river side, and has taken
clay, and formed it into twelve
sparrows, and profaneth the sab
bath.
7 Then Joseph came to the
place were he was, and when he
saw him, called to him, and said,
Why doest thou that which it is
not lawful to do on the sabbath
day?
8 Then Jesus clapping toge
ther the palms of his hands, called
to the sparrows, and said to them :
Go, fly away; and while ye live
remember me.
9 So the sparrows fled away,
making a noise.
10 The Jews seeing this, were
astonished, and went away, and
told their chief persons what a
60
and is reproved by Joseph.
strange miracle they had seen
wrought by Jesus.
CHAP. II.
2 Causes a boy to wither who broke down
his fish pools, 6 partly restores him, 7
kills another boy, 16 causes blindness to
fall on his accusers, 18 for which Jo
seph pulls him by the ear.
ESIDES this, the son of Anna
the scribe was standing there
with Joseph, and took a bough of
a willow tree, and scattered the
waters which Jesus had gathered
into lakes.
2. But the boy Jesus seeing
what he had done, became angry,
and said to him, Thou fool, what
harm did the lake do thee, that
thou shouldest scatter the water |
3 Behold, now thou shalt wi
ther as a tree, and shalt not bring
forth either leaves, or branches,
or fruit.
4 And immediately he became
withered all over.
5 Then Jesus went away home.
But the parents of the boy who
was withered, lamenting the mis
fortune of his youth, took and
carried him to Joseph, accusing
him, and said, Why dost thou
keep a son who is guilty of such
actions :
6 Then Jesus at the request of
all who were present did heal him,
leaving only some small member
to continue withered, that they
might take warning.
7 'ſ Another time Jesus went
forth into the street, and a boy
running by, rushed upon his
shoulder;
8 At which Jesus being angry,
said to him, thou shalt go no
farther.
9 And he instantly fell down
dead:
10 Which when some persons
II. INFANCY.
1 Astonishes his schoolmaster
saw, they said, Where was this
Sent to school.
boy born, that everything which
he says presently cometh to pass 1
11 Then the parents of the
dead boy going to Joseph com
plained, saying, you are not fit to
live with us, in our city, having
such a boy as that :
12 Either teach him that he
bless and not curse, or else depart
hence with him, for he kills our
children.
13 Mſ Then Joseph calling the
boy Jesus by himself, instructed
him saying, Why doest thou such
things to injure the people so,
that they hate us and prosecute
us?
14 But Jesus replied, I know
that what thou sayest is not of
thyself, but for thy sake I will say
nothing;
15 But they who have said
these things to thee, shall suffer
everlasting punishment.
16 And immediately they who
had accused him became blind.
17 And all they who saw it
were exceedingly afraid and con
founded, and said concerning him,
Whatsoever he saith, whether
good or bad, immediately cometh
to pass: and they were amazed.
18 And when they saw this
action of Christ, Joseph arose,
and plucked him by the ear, at
which the boy was angry, and said
to him, Be easy;
19 For if they seek for us, they
shall not find us : thou hast done
very imprudently.
20 Dost thou not know that I
am thine ! Trouble me no more.
CHAP. III.
by his
lcarning.
CERTAIN schoolmaster
A named Zacchaeus, standing
in a certain place, heard Jesus
61
Adventure at
speaking these things to his
father. -
2 And he was much surprised,
that being a child he should
speak such things ; and after a
few days he came to Joseph, and
said,
3 Thou hast a wise and sensi
ble child, send him to me, that
he may learn to read.
4. When he sat down to teach
the letters to Jesus, he began with
the first letter Aleph;
5 But Jesus pronounced the
second letter Mpeth (Beth) CGhi
mel (Gimel), and said over all the
letters to him to the end.
6 Then opening a book, he
taught his master the prophets:
but he was ashamed, and was at
a loss to conceive how he came to
know the letters.
CHRIST AND ABGARUS. a dyer's.
7 And he arose and went
home, wonderfully surprised at so
strange a thing.
CHAP. IV.
1 Fragment of an adventure at a dyer's
S Jesus was passing by a
certain shop, he saw a young
man dipping (or dyeing) some
cloths and stockings in a furnace,
of a sad colour, doing them ac
cording to every person's particu
lar order;
2 The boy Jesus going to
the young man who was doing
this, took also some of the
cloths & Q & © 9.
"I Here endeth the Fragment of
Thomas's Gospel of the Infancy
of Jesus Christ.
-º-
THE EPISTLES of JESUS CHRIST and ABGARUS KING
of EDESSA.
[The first writer who makes any mention of the Epistles that passed betweel
Jesus Christ and Abgarus, is Eusebius, Bishop of Caesarea, in Palestine,
who flourished in the early partof the fourth century. For their genuine
ness, he appeals to the public registers and records of the City of Edes-a
in Mesopotamia, where Abgarus reigned, and where he affirms that he
found them written, in the Syriac language. He published a Greek
translation of them, in his Ecclesiastical History." The learned world
have been much divided on this subject ; but, notwithstanding that the
erudite Grabe, with Archbishop Cave, Dr. Parker, and other divines,
has strenuously contended for their admission into the canon of Scrip
ture, they are deemed apocryphal. The Rev. Jeremiah Jones observes,
that the common people in England have this Epistle in their houses,
in many places, fixed in a frame, with the picture of Christ before it ;
and that they generally, with much honesty and devotion, regard it as
the word of God, and the genuine Epistle of Christ.]
CHAP. L. 2 I have been informed con
cerning you and your cures, which
4 copy of a letter written by King Ab
garus to Jesus, and sent to him by
Ananius, his footman, to Jerusalem,
5 inviting him to Edessa.
BGARUS, king of Edessa,
to Jesus the good Saviour,
who appears at Jerusalem, greet
ing
are performed without the use of
medicines and herbs.
3 For it is reported, that you
cause the blind to see, the lame
to walk, do both cleanse lepers,
and cast out unclean spirits and
devils, and restore them to health
'L i. c. 13.
62
Jesus' letter
who have been long diseased, and
raises; up the dead ;
4 All which when I heard, I
was persuaded of one of these
two, viz, either that you are God
himself descended from heaven,
who do these things, or the Son of
God.
5 On this account therefore I
have wrote to you, earnestly to
desire you would take the trouble
of a journey hither, and cure a
disease which I am under.
6 For I hear the Jews ridicule
you, and intend you mischief.
7 My city is indeed small, but
neat, and large enough for us both.
CHAP. II.
The answer of Jesus by Ananias the
footman to Abyarus the king, 3 de
clining to visit Edessa.
NICODEMU.S. so Abgurus.
BARGUS, you are happy,
forasmuch as you have be
lieved on me, whom ye have not
Seen.
2 For it is written concerning
me, that those who have seen me
should not believe on me, that
they who have not seen might be.
lieve and live.
3. As to that part of your letter,
which relates to my giving you a
visit, I must inform you, that I
must fulfil all the ends of my
mission in this country, and after
that be received up again to him
who sent me.
4 But after my ascension I will
send one of my disciples, who
will cure your disease, and give
life to you, and all that are with
you.
The GOSPEL of NICODEMUS, formerly called the ACTS of
PONTIUS PILATE.
[Although this Gospel is, by some among the learned, ºto have been
really written by Nicodemus, who became a disciple o Jesus Christ, and
conversed with him; others conjecture that it was a forgery towards the
close of the third century by some zealous believer, who observing that
there had been appeals m e by the Christians of the former age, to the
Acts of Pilate, but that such Acts could not be produced, imagined it
would be of service to Christianity to fabricate and publish this Gospel;
as it would both confirm the Christians under persecution, and convince
the Heathens of the truth of the Christian religion. The Rev. Jeremiah
Jones says, that such pious frauds were very common among Christians
even in the first three centuries; and that a forgery of this nature, with
the view above mentioned, seems natural and probable. The same
author, in noticing that Eusebius, in his Ecclesiastical History, charges
the Pagans with having forged and published a book, called “The Acts
of Pilate,” takes occasion to observe, that the internal evidence of this
Gospel shows it was not the work of any Heathen ; but that if in the
latter end of the third century we find it in use among Christians (as
it was then certainly in some churches) and about the same time find a
forgery of the Heathens under the same title, it seems exceedingly pro
bable that some Christians, at that time, should publish such a piece as
this, in order partly to confront the spurious one of the Pagans, and
partly to support those appeals which had been made by former
Christians to the Acts of Pilate; and Mr. Jones says, he thinks so more
Fºl. as we have innumerable instances of forgeries by the faith
ul in the primitive ages, grounded on less plausible reasons. Whether
it be canonical or not, it is of very great antiquity, and is appealed to by
several of the ancient Christians. The present translation is made
from the Gospel published by Grynaeus in the Orthodoxographa,
vol. i. tom. ii. p. 643.]
63
Christ accused by the
The Gospel of NicodeMUs the
disciple, concerning the Sufferings
and Resurrection of our Master
and Saviour JESUS CHRIST.
CHAP. I.
1 Christ accused to Pilate by the Jews
of healing on the sabbath. 9 sum
moned before Pilate by a messenger
who does him honour, 20 worshipped
by the standards bowing down to him.
NNAS and Caiphas, and
4- Summas, and Datam, Ga
whaliel, Judas, Levi, Nepthalim,
Alexander, Cyrus, and other
Jews, went to Pilate about Jesus,
accusing him with many bad
-CrimeS.
2 And said, We are assured
that Jesus is the son of Joseph the
-carpenter,' and born of Mary, and
that he declares himself the Son
of God, and a king ; and not only
so, but attempts the dissolution of
the sabbath,” and the laws of our
fathers.
3 Pilate replied ; What is it
which he declares 1 and what is it
which he attempts dissolving?
4 The Jews told him, We have
a law which forbids doing cures
on the sabbath day;' but he
cures both the lame and the deaf,
those afflicted with the palsy, the
blind, and lepers, and demoniacs,
on that day by wicked methods.
5 Pilate replied, How can he
do this by wicked methods? They
answered, He is a conjurer, and
casts out devils by the prince of
the devils;” and so all things
become subject to him.
6 Then said Pilate, Casting out
devils seems not to be the work
of an unclean spirit, but to pro
ceed from the power of God.
7 The Jews replied to Pilate,
We entreat your highness to sum
NICOI) EMUS. Jews beyore Pilate
mon him to appear before your
tribunal, and hear him yourself.
8 Then Pilatecalled a messenger,
and said to him, By what means
will Christ be brought hither?
9 Then went the messenger
forth, and knowing Christ, wor
shipped him ; and having spread
the cloak which he had in his
hand upon the ground, he said,
Lord, walk upon this, and go in,
for the governor calls thee.
10 When the Jews perceived
what the messenger had done,
they exclaimed (against him) to
Pilate, and said, Why did you not
give him his summons by a bea
dle, and not by a messenger!–
For the messenger, when he saw
him, worshipped him, and spread
the cloak which he had in his
hand upon the ground before him,
and said to him, Lord, the go
vernor calls thee.
ll Then Pilate called the mes
senger, and said, Why hast thou
done thus?
12 The messenger replied,
When thou sentest me from Je
rusalem to Alexander, I saw Je
sus sitting in a mean figure upon
a she-ass, and the children of the
IIebrews cried out, Hosannah,
holding boughs of trees in their
hands.
13 Others spread their garments
in the way, and said, Save us, thou
who art in heaven; blessed is he
who cometh in the name of the
Lord."
14 Then the Jews cried out,
against the messenger, and said,
The children of the Hebrews made
their acclamations in the Hebrew
language; and how couldst thou,
who art a Greek, understand the
Hebrew ;
* Matt. xiii. 55, and John vi. 42. * John v. 17, 18. Mark rv. 2.
* Matt. xii. 2, &c.; Luke xiii. 14. John, v. 18. * Exod. xx. 8, &c. * Matt.
iV, 24, and xi. 6. * Matt. ix. 34, and xii. 24, &c. * Matt, 1xi. 8.
tº, &c.
64
Christ worshipped by
15 The messenger answered
them and said, I asked one of the
Jews and said, What is this which
the children do cry out in the
Hebrew language 7
16 And he explained it to me,
ſlaying, they cry out Hosannah,
which being interpreted, is, O
Lord, save me; or, O Lord, save.
17 Pilate then said to them,
Why do you yourselves testify to
the words spoken by the children,
namely, by your silence? In what
has the messenger done amiss?
And they were silent.
18 Then the governor said un
to the messenger, Go forth and
endeavour by any means to bring
him in.
19 But the messenger went
forth, and did as before ; and said,
Lord, come in, for the governor
calleth thee.
20 And as Jesus was going in
by the ensigns, who carried the
standards, the tops of them bowed
down and worshipped Jesus.
21 Whereupon the Jews ex
claimed more vehemently against
the ensigns.
22 But Pilate said to the Jews,
I know it is not pleasing to you
that the tops of the standards did
of themselves bow and worship
Jesus; but why do ye exclaim
against the ensigns, as if they had
bowed and worshipped
23 They replied to Pilate, We
saw the ensigns themselves bow
ing and worshipping Jesus.
24 Then the governor called
the ensigns and said unto them,
Why did you do thus?
25 The ensigns said to Pilate,
We are all Pagans and worship
the gods in temples ; and how
should we think anything about
worshipping him $ We only held
the standards in our hands and
NICOLEMUS. the standards.
they bowed themselves and wor
shipped him.
26 Then said Pilate to the ru
lers of the synagogue, Do ye your
selves choose some strong men,
and let them hold the standards,
and we shall see whether they will
then bend of themselves.
27 So the elders of the Jews
sought out twelve of the most
strong and able old men, and made
them hold the standards and they
stood in the presence of the go
Vernor.
28 Then Pilate said to the mes
senger, Take Jesus out, and by
Some means bring him in again.
And Jesus and the messenger
went out of the hall.
29 And Pilate called the
ensigns who before had borne the
standards, and swore to them, that
if they had not borne the stan
dards in that manner when Jesus
before entered in, he would cut off
their heads.
30 Then the governor com
manded Jesus to come in again.
31 And the messenger did as
he had done before, and very
much entreated Jesus that he
would go upon his cloak, and
walk on it, and he did walk upon
it, and went in.
32 And when Jesus went in,
the standards bowed themselves
as before, and worshipped him.
CHAP. II
2 Is compassionated by Pilate's wife, 7
charged with being born in fornication,
12 Testimony to the betrothing of his
parents. Hatred of the Jews to him.
OW when Pilate saw this, he
was afraid, and was about
to rise from his seat.
2. But while he thought to rise,
his own wife who stood at a dis
tauce, sent to him, saying, Have
9 65
Charged with being
thou nothing to do with that just
man; for I have suffered much
concerning him in a vision this
night."
3 When the Jews heard this
they said to Pilate, Did we not
say unto thee, He is a conjuror?
Behold, he hath caused thy wife
to dream.
4 Pilate then calling Jesus,
said, thou hast heard what they
testify against thee, and makest
no answer?
5 Jesus replied, If they had not
a power of speaking, they could
not have spoke; but because every
one has the command of his own
tongue, to speak both good and
bad, let him look to it.
6 But the elders of the Jews
answered, and said to Jesus, What
shall we look to?
7 In the first place, we know
this concerning thee, that thou
wast born through fornication ;
secondly, that upon the account
of thy birth the infants were slain
in Bethlehem ; thirdly that thy
father and mother Mary fled into
Egypt, because they could not
trust their own people.
8 Some of the Jews who stood
by spake more favourably, We
cannot say that he was born
throughfornication; but we know
that his mother Mary was be
trothed to Joseph, and so he
was not born through fornication.
9 Then said Pilate to the Jews
who affirmed him to be born
through fornication, This your ac
count is not true, seeing there was
a betrothment, as they testify
who are of your own nation.
10 Annas and Caiphas spake to
Pilate, All this multitudeofpeople
is to be regarded, who cry out,
that he was born through fornica
* Matt. xxvii. 19
NICODEMU.S. born in fornication.
tion, and is a conjuror; but they
who deny him to be born through
fornication, are his proselytes and
disciples.
11 Pilate answered Annas and
Caiphas, Who are the proselytes 1
They answered, they are those
who are the children of Pagans
and are not become Jews, but
followers of him.
12 Then replied Eleazer, and
Asterius,andAntonius,andJames,
Caras and Samuel, Isaac and Phi
nees, Crispus and Agrippa, Annas
and Judas, We are not proselytes,
but children of Jews, and speak
the truth, and were present when
Mary was betrothed.
13 Then Pilate addressing him
self to the twelve men who spake
this, said to them, I conjure you
by the life of Caesar, that ye faith
fully declare whether he was born
through fornication, and those
things be true which ye have re
lated.
14 They answered Pilate, We
have a law, whereby we are forbid
to swear, it being a sin: Let them
swear by the life of Caesar that it
is not as we have said, and we
will be contented to be put to
death. -
15 Then said Anna and Cai
phas to Pilate, Those twelve men
will not believe that we know
him to be basely born, and to be
a conjuror, although he pretends
that he is the son of God, and a
king : * which we are so far from
believing, that we tremble to hear.
16 Then Pilate commanded
every one to go out except the
twelve men who said he was not
born through fornication, and
Jesus to withdraw to a distance,
and said to them, Why have the
Jews a mind to kill Jesus?
• John v. 17, 18; Mark Xv. 2.
66
Christ disputes
17 They answered him, They
are angry because he wrought
cures on the sabbath day. Pilate
said, Will they kill him for a good
work?' They say unto him, Yes,
Sir.
CHAP. III.
1 Is exonerated by Pilate. 11 Disputes
writh Pilate concerning Truth.
HEN Pilate, filled with an
ger, went out of the hall,
and said to the Jews, I call the
whole world to witness that I find
no fault in that man.”
2 The Jews replied to Pilate,
If he had not been a wicked per
son, we hadnot broughthim before
Whee.
3 Pilate said to them, Do ye
take him and try him by your
law.
4 Then the Jews said, It is not
lawful for us to put any one to
death.
5 Pilate said to the Jews, The
command, therefore thou shalt
not kill,8 belongs to you, but not
to me.
6 And he went again into the
hall, and called Jesus by himself,
and said to him, Art thou the king
of the Jews?
7 And Jesus answering, said
to Pilate, Dost thou speak this of
thyself, or did the Jews tell it thee
concerning me?
8 Pilate answering, said to Je
sus, Am I a Jew? The whole na
tion and rulers of the Jews have
delivered thee up to me. What
hast thou done?
9 Jesus answering, said, My
kingdom is not of this world: if
my kingdom were of this world,
then would my servants fight, and
"John X. 32.
NICODEMUS.
• John xviii. 31, &c.
with Pilate.
I should not have been delivered
to the Jews; but now my kingdom
is not from hence.
10. Pilate said, Art thou a king
then! Jesus answered, Thou say.
est that I am a king : to this end
was I born, and for this end came
I into the world; and for tihs pur
pose I came, that I should bear
witness to the truth; and every
one who is of the truth, heareth
my voice.
11 Pilate saith to him, What
is truth? -
12 Jesus said, Truth is from
heaven.
13 Pilate said, Therefore truth
is not on earth.
14 Jesus said to Pilate, Be
lieve that truth is on earth among
those, who when they have the
power of judgment, are governed
by truth, and form right judg
ment.
CHAP. IV.
1 Pilate finds no fault in Jesus. 16. The
Jews demand his crucifixion.
HEN Pilate left Jesus in the
hall, and went out to the
Jews, and said, I find not any one
fault in Jesus.
2 The Jews say unto him, But
he said, I can destroy the temple
of God, and in three days build it
up again.
3 Pilate saith unto them, What
sort of temple is that of which he
speaketh
4 The Jews say unto him,
That which Solomon was forty-six
years in building,” he said he
would destroy, and in three days
build up.
5 Pilate said to them again, I
am innocent from the blood of that
man; do ye look to it.8
* Exod. xx. 13. “John , 20.
* Matt. xxvii. 24.
67
Bilate inclines to Christ. NICODEMUS. The Jews demand his death.
6 The Jews say to him, His
blood be upon us and our children.
Then Pilate calling together the
elders and scribes, priests and Le
vites, saith to them privately, Do
not act thus; I have found nothing
in your charge (against him) con
cerning his curing sick persons,
and breaking the sabbath, worthy
of death.
7 The Priests and Levites re
plied to Pilate, By the life of Cae
sar, if any one be a blasphemer,
he is worthy of death; * but this
man hath blasphemed against the
Lord.
8 Then the governor again
commanded the Jews to depart
out of the hall; and calling Jesus,
said to him, What shall I do with
thee!
9 Jesus answered him, Do ac
cording as it is written.
10 Pilate said to him, How is
it written?
11 Jesus saith to him, Moses
and the prophets have prophesied
concerning my suffering and re
surrection.
12 The Jews hearing this, were
provoked, and said to Pilate, Why
wilt thou any longer hear the
blasphemy of that man?
13 Pilate saith to them,If these
words seem to you blasphemy, do
ye take him, bring him to your
court, and try him according to
our law.
14 The Jews reply to Pilate,
Our law saith, he shall be obliged
to receive nine and thirty stripes,
but if after this manner he shall
blaspheme against the Lord, he
shall be stoned.
15 Pilate saith unto them, If
that speech of his was blasphemy,
Leviticus xxiv. 16.
doyetry him according to your
law.
16 The Jews say to Pilate, Our
law command us not to put any
one to death : we desire that he
may be crucified, because he de
serves the death of the cross.
17 Pilate saith to them, It is
not fit he should be crucified : let
him be only whipped and sent
away.”
18 But when thegovernor look
ed upon the people that were pre
sent and the Jews, he saw many
of the Jews in tears, and said to
the chief priests of the Jews, All
the people do not desire his death.
19 The elders of the Jews an
swered to Pilate, We and all the
people came hither for this very
purpose, that he should die.
20 Pilate saith to them, Why
should he die?
21 They said to him, Because
he declares himself to be the Son
of God, and a King.
CHAP. V.
1 Nicodemus speaks in defence of Christ,
and relates his miracles. 12 A nother
Jew, 26 with Veronica, 34 Centurio,
and others, testify of other miracles.
DUT Nicodemus, a certain Jew,
stood before the governor, .
and said, I entreat thee, O right
eous judge, that thou wouldst fa
vour me with the liberty of speak
ing a few words.
2 Pilate said to him, Speak on.
3 Nicodemus said, I spake to
the elders of the Jews, and the
scribes, and priests and Levites,
and all the multitude of the Jews,
in their assembly; What is it ye
would do with this man?
* Exodus xx. 13.
• Luke xxiii. 16.
68
AWicodemus speaks.
4 He is a man who hath wrought
many useful and glorious mira
cies, such as no man on earth
ever wrought before, nor will
ever work." Let him go, and do
him no harm ; if he cometh from
God, his miracles, (his miracu
lous cures) will continue; but if
from men, they will come to
nought.”
5 Thus Moses, when he was
sent by God into Egypt, wrought
the miracles which God com
manded him, before Pharaoh king
of Egypt; and though the magi
ciams of that country, Jannes and
Jambres,” wrought by their magic
the same miracles which Moses
did, yet they could not work all
which he did ;”
6 And the miracles which the
magicians wrought, were not of
God, as ye know, O Scribes and
Pharisees; but they who wrought
them perished, and all who be
lieved them.”
7 And now let this man go ;
because the very miracles for
which ye accuse him, are from
God; and he is not worthy of
death.
8 The Jews then said to Nico
demus, Art thou become his dis
ciple, and making speeches in his
favour !
9 Nicodemus said to them, Is
the governor become his disciple
also, and does he make speeches
for him ; Did not Caesar place
him in that high post 7
10 When the Jews heard this
they trembled, and gnashed their
teeth at Nicodemus, and said to
him, Mayest thou receive his doc
trine for truth, and have thy lot
with Christ |
11 Nicodemus replied, Amen;
"John iii. 2.
N] COL) EM U.S. A Jerr cºred by Christ.
I will receive his doctrine, and my
lot with him, as ye have said.
12 *ſ Then another certain Jew
rose up, and desired leave of the
governor to hear him a few words.
13 And the governor said
Speak what thou hast a mind.
14 And ye said, I lay for thirty
eight years by the sheep-pool at
Jerusalem, labouring undera great
infirmity, and waiting for a cure
which should be wrought by the
coming of an angel, who at a cer
tain time troubled the water; and
whosoever first after the troubling
of the water stepped in, was made
whole of whatsoever disease he
had.
15 And when Jesus saw me
languishing there, he said to me,
Wilt thou be made whole And
I answered, Sir, I have no man,
when the water is troubled, to put
me into the pool.
16 And he said unto me, Rise,
take up thy bed and walk. And
I was immediately made whole,
and took up my bed and walked."
17 The Jews then said to Pi
late, Our Lord Governor, pray ask
him what day it was on which he
was cured of his infirmity.
18 The infirm person replied,
It was on the sabbath.
19 The Jews said to Pilate, Did
we not say that he wrought his
cures on the sabbath, and cast out
devils by the prince of devils?
20 Then another certain’ Jew
came forth, and said, I was blind,
could hear sounds, but could not
see any one ; and as Jesus was
going along, I heard the multi
tude passing by, and I asked what
was there?
21 They told me that Jesus
was passing by : then I cried out
'These are mentioned also asthe names of the magicians, 2 Tim. iii. 8.
* Exod. viii. 18, &c.
* John v. 1, 2. &c.
* Acts v. 35. An allusion to Gamaliel's speech.
f
* Acts v. 38.
"Mark X. 46.
69
with Veronica and others,
saying, Jesus, Son of David, have
mercy on me. And he stood still,
and commanded that I should be
brought to him, and said to me,
What wilt thou ?
22 I said, Lord, that I may re
ceive my sight.
23 He said to me, Receive thy
sight: and presently I saw, and
followed him, rejoicing and giving
thanks.
24 Another Jew also came
forth, and said, "I was a leper,
and he cured me by his word only,
saying, I will, be thou clean; and
presently I was cleansed from my
leprosy.
25 And another Jew came
forth, and said, I was crooked,
and he made me straight by his
word.”
26 ‘ſſ And a certain woman
tlamed Veronica, said, “I was af.
flicted with an issue of blood
twelve years, and I touched the
hem of his garment, and presently
the issue of my blood stopped.
27 The Jews then said, We
have a law, that a woman shall not
be allowed as an evidence.
28 And, after other things, ano
ther Jew said, “I saw Jesus in
vited to a wedding with his disci
ples, and there was a want of wine
in Cana of Galilee;
29 And when the wine was all
drank, he commanded the servants
that they should fill six pots
which were there with water, and
they filled them up to the brim,
and he blessed them, and turned
the water into wine, and all the
people drank, being surprised at
this miracle.
30 And another Jew stood
forth, and said, " I saw Jesus
* Matt. viii 1.1, &c.
NICODEMU.S. testify of his miracles.
teaching in the synagogue at Ca
pernaum ; and there was in the
synagogue a certain man who had
a devil; and he cried out, saying,
let me alone ; what have we to
do with thee, Jesus of Nazareth
Art thou come to destroy us? I
know that thou art the Holy One
of God.
31 And Jesus rebuked him, say.
ing, Hold thy peace, unclean
spirit, and come out of the man;
and presently he came out of him,
and did not at all hurt him.
32 The following things were
also said by a Pharisee; I saw
that a great company came to
Jesus from Galilee and Judaea,
and the sea-coast, and many
countries about Jordan and many
infirm persons came to him, and
he healed them all."
33 And I heard the unclean
spirits crying out, and saying,”
Thou art the Son of God. And
Jesus strictly charged them, that
they should not make him
known.
34 " After this another person,
whose name was Centurio, said,”
I saw Jesus in Capernaum, and I
entreated him, saying, Lord, my
servant lieth at home sick of the
palsy.
35 And Jesus said to me, I
will come and cure him.
36 But I said, Lord, I am not
worthy that thou shouldst come
under my roof; but only speak
the word, and my servant shall
be healed.
37 And Jesus said unto me,
Go thy way; and as thou hast
believed, so be it done unto thee.
And my servant was healed from
that same hour.
* Luke xiii. 11, &c.
* Matt. ix. 20, &c. See concerning this woman called Veronica, on whom
this miracle was performed, and the statue which she erected to the honour
of Christ, in Fuseb. Hist. Eccl. 1. 7. c. 18.
* John ii. 1, &c.
"Mark iii. 11.
* Luke iv. 33, &c.
* Matt. viii. 5. &c.
* Matt. v. 23.
Christ's miracles witnessed. NICODEMU.S.
38 Then a certain nobleman
said, I had a son in Capernaum,
who lay at the point of death ;
and when I heard that Jesus was
come into Galilee, I went and be
sought him that he would come
down to my house, and heal my
son, for he was at the point of
death.
39 He said to me, Gothy way,
thy son liveth.
40 And my son was cured from
that hour.
41 Besides these, also many
others of the Jews, both men and
women, cried out and said, He is
truly the Son of God, who cures
all diseases only by his word, and
to whom the devils are altogether
subject.
42 Some of them farther said,
This power can proceed from none
but God.
43 Pilate said to the Jews,
Why are not the devils subject to
your doctors?
44 Some of them said, The
power of subjecting devils cannot
proceed but from God.
45 But others said to Pilate,
That he had raised Lazarus from
the dead, after he had been four
days in his grave.
46 The governer hearing this,
trembling said to the multitude of
the Jews, What will it profit you
to shed innocent blood |
CHAP. VI.
1 Pilate dismayed by the turbulence of
the Jews, 5 who demand Barabbas to
be released, and Christ to be crucified,
9 Pilate warmly expostulates with
then, 20 washes his hands of Christ's
blood, 23 and sentences him to be
whipped and crucified.
HEN Pilafe having called to
- gether Nicodemus, and the
fifteen men who said that Jesus
"John xi. 1 , &c.
Aſis death demanded.
was not born through fornication,
said to them, What shall I do,
seeing there is like to be a tumult
among the people.”
2 They said unto him, We
know not ; let them look to it who
raise the tumult.
3 Pilate then called the multi
tude again, and said to them, Ye
know that ye have a custom, that
I should release to you one pri
soner at the feast of the passover;
4 I have a noted prisoner, a
murderer, who is called Barabbas,
and Jesus who is called Christ, in
whom I find nothing that deserves
death; which of them therefore
have you a mind that I should re
lease to you?”
5 They all cry out, and say,
Release to us Barabbas.
6 Pilate saith to them, What
then shall I do with Jesus who is
called Christ |
7 They all answer, Let him be
crucified.
8 Again they cry out and say
to Pilate, You are not the friend
of Caesar, if you release this man;
for he hath declared that he is the
Son of God, and a king. But are
you inclined that he should be
king, and not Caesar {
9 Then Pilate filled with anger
said to them, Your nation hath
always been seditious, and you are
always against those who have
been serviceable to you.
10 The Jews replied, Who are
those who have been serviceable
to us? i
11 Pilate answered them, Your "
God who delivered you from the
hard bondage of the Egyptians,
and brought you over the Red Sea
as though it had been dry land,
and fed you in the wilderness with
manna and the flesh of quails,
*Matt. xxvii. 21,
* Matt. xxvii. 24.
* John xix. 12.
71
oy the Jews, and
and brought water out of the rock,
and gave you a law from heaven :
12 Ye provoked him all ways,
and desired for yourselves a mol
ten calf, and worshipped it, and
sacrified to it, and said, These
are Thy Gods, O Israel, which
brought thee out of the land of
Egypt
13 On account of which your
God was inclined to destroy you;
but Moses interceded for you, and
your God heard him, and forgave
your iniquity.
14 Afterwards ye were enraged
against, and would have killed
your prophets, Moses and Aaron.
when they fled to the tabernacle,
and ye were always murmuring
against God and his prophets.
15 And arising from his judg
ment seat, he would have gone
out; but the Jews all cried out,
We acknowledge Caesar to be
king, and not Jesus.
16 Whereas this person, as
soon as he was born, the wise men
came and offered gifts unto him;
which when Herod heard, he was
exceedingly troubled, and would
have killed him.
17 When his father knew this,
he fled with him and his mother
Mary into Egypt. Herod, when
he heard he was born, would have
slain him ; and accordingly sent
and slew all the children which
were in Bethlehem, and in all the
coasts thereof, from two years old
and under."
18 When Pilate heard this ac
count, he was afraid; and com
manding silence among the peo
ple, who made a noise, he said to
Jesus, Art thou therefore a king 7
19 All the Jews replied to Pi
late, he is the very person whom
Herod sought to have slain.
NICODEMU.S. ordered by Pilate.
20 Then Pilate taking water,
washed his hands before the peo.
ple and said, I am innocent of the
blood of this just person; look
ye to it.”
21 The Jews answered and
said, His blood be upon us and
our children.
22 Then Pilate commanded
Jesus to be brought before him,
and spake to him in the following
words;
23 Thy own nation hath
charged thee as making thyself a
king; wherefore I, Pilate, sentence
thee to be whipped according to
the laws of former governors; and
that thou be first bound, then
hanged upon a cross in that place
where thou art now a prisoner; and
also two criminals with thee, whose
names are Dimas and Gestas.
CHAP. VII.
1 Manner of Christ's crucifixion with the
two thieves.
HEN Jesus went out of the
hall, and the two thieves with
him.
2 And when they came to the
place which is called Golgotha,"
they stript him of his raiment, and
girt him about with a linen cloth,
and put a crown of thorns upon
his head, and put a reed in his
hand.
3 And in like manner did they
to the two thieves who were cru
cified with him, Dimas on his
right hand and Gestas on his left.
4 But Jesus said, My Father,
forgive them; For they know not
what they do.
5 And they divided his garments,
and upon his vesture they cast lots.
6 The people in the mean time
stood by, and the chief priests
and elders of the Jews mocked
* Matt. ii. * Matt. Kxvii. 24. &c. * Matt. xxvii. 33.
72
Christ's crucificion
him, saying, He saved others, let
him now save himself if he can ;
if he be the son of God, let him
now come down from the cross.
7. The soldiers also mocked
him, and taking vinegar and gall,
offered it to him to drink, and
said to him, If thou art king of
the Jews deliver thyself.
8 Then Longinus, a certain sol
dier, taking a spear," pierced his
side, and presently there came
forth blood and water.
9 And Pilate wrote the title
upon the cross in Hebrew, Latin,
and Greek letters, viz. This is the
king of the Jews.”
10 But one of the two thieves
who, were crucified with Jesus,
whose name was Gestas, said to
Jesus, If thou art the Christ, deli
ver thyself and us.
11 But the thief who was cru
cified on his right hand, whose
name was Dimas, answering, re
buked him, and said, Dost not
thou fear God, who art condemned
to this punishment? We indeed
receive rightly and justly the
demerit of our actions; but this
Jesus, what evil hath he done?
12 After this, groaning, he said
to Jesus, Lord, remember me
when thou comest into thy king
dom.
13 Jesus answering, said to
him, Verily I say unto thee, that
this day thou shalt be with me in
Paradise.
CHAP. VIII.
1 Miraculous appearance at his death.
10 TheJews say the eclipse was natural.
12 Joseph of Arimathoa embalms
Christ's body and buries it.
ND it was about the sixth
hour,” and darkness was upon
NICODEMU.S.
"John xix. 34. *John xix. 19.
attended by miracles,
the face of the whole earth until
the ninth hour.
2 And while the sun was
eclipsed, behold the vail of the
temple was rent from the top to
the bottom ; and the rocks also
were rent, and the graves opened,
and many bodies of Saints, which
slept, arose.
3 And about the ninth hour
Jesus cried out with a loud voice,
saying, Hely, Hely, lama zabac
thani' which being interpreted,
is, My God, My God, why hast
thou forsaken me !
4 And after these things, Jesus
said, Father, into thy hands I
commend my spirit; and having
said this, he gave up the ghost.
5 But when the centurion saw
that Jesus thus crying out gave
up the ghost, he glorified God,
and said, Of a truth this was a just
II].8 Il.
6 And all the people who stood
by, were exceedingly troubled at
the sight; and reflecting upon
what had passed, smote upon their
breasts, and then returned to the
city of Jerusalem.
7 The centurion went to the
governor, and related to him all
that had passed ;
8 And when he had heard all
these things, he was exceeding
sorrowful;
9 And calling the Jews toge
ther, said to them, Have ye seen
the miracle of the sun's eclipse,
and the other things which came
to pass, while Jesus was dying
10 Whch when the Jews heard,
they answered to the governor,
The eclipse of the sun happened
according to its usual custom.
11 But all those who were the
acquaintance of Christ, stood at a
* Matt. xxvii. 45, &c.
10 73
and his body buried by
distance, as did the women who
had followed Jesus from Galilee,
observing all these things.
12 And "behold a certain man
of Arimathaea, named Joseph, who
also was a disciple of Jesus, but
not openly so, for fear of the Jews,
came to the governor, and intreated
the governor that he would give
him leave to take away the body
of Jesus from the cross.
13 And the governor gave him
leave.
14 And Nicodemus came,
bringing with him a mixture of
myrrh and aloes about a hundred
pound weight; and they took
down Jesus from the cross with
tears, and bound him with linen
cloths with spices, according to the
customof burying among theJews,
15 And placed him in a new
tomb, which Joseph had built,
and caused to be cut out of a rock,
in which never any man had been
put ; and they rolled a great stone
to the door of the sepulchre.
CHAP. IX.
1 The Jews angry with Nicodemus: 5
and with Joseph of Arimathapa, 7 whom
they imprison.
Włº theunjust Jews heard
that Joseph had begged
and buried the body of Jesus,
they sought after Nicodemus ; and
those fifteen men who had testified
before the governor, that Jesus
was not born through fornication,
and other good persons who had
shewn any good actions towards
2. But when they all concealed
themselves through fear of the
Jews, Nicodemus alone shewed
himself to them, and said, How
NICODEM U.S. Joseph of Arimathara
can such persons as these enter
into the synagogue'ſ
3 The Jews answered him,
But how durst thou enter into
the synagogue, who wast a con
federate with Christ? Let thy
lot be al, ng with him in the other
world.
4 Nicodemus answered, Amen;
so may it be, that I may have my
lot with him in his kingdom.
5 In like manner Joseph, when
he came to the Jews, said to them,
Why are ye angry with 1,1e for
desiring the body of Jesus of Pi
late 7 Behold, I have put him in
my tomb, and wrapped him up in
clean linen, and put a stone at the
door of the sepulchre:
6 I have acted rightly towards
him ; but ye have acted unjustly
against that just person, in cruci
fiying him, giving him vinegar to
drink, crowning him with thorns,
tearing his body with whips, and
prayed down theguilt of his blood
upon you.
7 The Jews at the hearing of
this were disquieted, and trou
bled ; and they seized Joseph,
and commanded him to be put in
custody before the sabbath, and
kept there till the sabbath was
OWer.
8 And they said to him, Make
confession; for at this time it is
not lawful to do thee any harm,
till the first day of the week come.
But we know that thou wilt not
be thought worthy of a burial;
but we will give thy flesh to the
birds of the air, and the beasts of
the earth.
9 Joseph answered, That
speech is like the speech of proud
Goliath, who reproached the liv
ing God in speaking against Da
"John xix. 38.
74
-,
4
Joseph of A. imprisoned.
vid. But ye scribes and doctors
know that God saith by the pro
phet, Vengeance is mine, and I
will repay to you! evil equal to
that which ye have threatened to
in16.
10 The God whom you have
hanged upon the cross, is able to
deliver me out of your hands.
All your wickedness will return
upon you.
11 For the governor, when he
washed his hands, said, I am clear
from the blood ofthis just person.
But ye answered and cried out,
His blood be upon us and our
children. According as ye have
said, may ye perish for ever.
12 The elders of the Jews hear
ing these words, were exceedingly
enraged ; and seizing Joseph,
they put him into a chamber
where there was no window; they
fastened the door, and put a seal
upon the lock;
13 And Annas and Caiaphas
placed a guard upon it, and took
counsel with the priests and Le
vites, that they should all meet
after the sabbath, and they con
trived to what death they should
put Joseph.
14 When they had done this,
the rulers, Annas and Caiaphas,
ordered Joseph to bebrought forth.
* In this place there is a portion
of the Gospel lost or omitted,
which cannot be supplied.
CHAP. X.
1 Joseph's escape. 2 The soldiers relate
Christ's resurrection. 18 Chº ist is seen
preaching in Galilee. 21 The Jews re
pent of their cruelty to him.
HEN all the assembly
heard this, they admired
* Deut. xxxii. 35 ; Heb. x. 40.
NICODEMUS. Christ rises again.
and were astonished, because they
found the same seal upon the
lock of the chamber, and could not
find Joseph.
2 Then Annas and Caiaphas
went forth, and while they were
all admiring at Joseph's being
gone, behold one of the soldiers,
who kept the sepulchre of Jesus,
spake in the assembly,
3 2That while they were guard
ing the sepulchre of Jesus, there
was an earthquake ; and we saw
an angel of God roll away the
stone of the sepulchre and 8sit
upon it ;
4 And his countenance was like
lightning and his garment like
snow ; and we became through
fear like persons dead.
5 And weheard an angel saying
to the women at the sepulchre of
Jesus, Do not fear; I know that
you seek Jesus who was crucified ;
he is risen as he foretold.
6 Come and see the place where
he was laid ; and go presently,
and tell his disciples that he is
risen from the dead, and he will
go before you into Galilee ; there
ye shall see him as he told you.
7 Then the Jews called toge
ther all the soldiers who kept the
sepulchre of Jesus, and said to
them, Who are those women, to
whom the angel spoke | Why did
ye not seize them
8 The soldiers answered and
said, We know not whom the wo—
men were ; besides we become as
dead persons through fear, and
how could we seize those women ;
9 The Jews said to thein, As
the Lord liveth we do not believe
you,
10 The soldiers answering said
to the Jews, when ye saw and
*Matt. xxviii. 11, 12, &c.
*Matt. xxviii. 1, 2, &c.
75
and preaches in Galilee.
heard Jesus working so many mira
cles, and did not believe him, how
should ye believe us? Ye well
said, As the Lord liveth, for the
Łord truly does live.
11 We have heard that ye shut
mp Joseph, who buried the body
of Jesus, in a chamber, under a
lock which was sealed; and when
ye opened it, found him not
there.
12 Do ye then produce Joseph
whom ye put under guard in the
chamber, and we will produce
Jesus whom we guarded in the
sepulchre.
13 The Jews answered and said,
We will produce Joseph, do ye
produce Jesus. But Joseph is in
his own city of Arimathaea.
14 The soldiers replied, If Jo
seph be in Arimathasa, and Jesus
in Galilee, we heard the angel in
form the women.
15 The Jews hearing this, were
afraid, and said among themselves,
If by any means these things
should become public, then every
body will believe in Jesus.
16 Then they gathered a large
sum of money, and gave it to the
soldiers, saying, Do ye tell the
people that the disciples of Jesus
came in the night when ye were
asleep and stole away the body
of Jesus; and if Pilate the gover
nor should hear of this, we will
satisfy him and secure you.
17 Thesoldiers accordinglytook
the money, and said as they were
instructed by the Jews; and their
report was spread abroad among
all the people.
18 "I But a certain priest Phi
nees, Ada a schoolmaster, and a
Levite, named Ageus, they three
came from Galilee to Jerusalem,
NICODEMU.S. The Jews repent.
and told the chief priests and all
who were in the synagogues, say
ling,
19 We have seen Jesus, whom
ye crucified, talking with his
eleven disciples, and sitting in the
midst of them in Mount Olivet,
and saying to them,"
20 Go forth into the whole
world, preach the Gospel to all
nations, baptising them in the name
of the Father, and the Son, and
the Holy Ghost; and whosoever
shall believe andbe baptised, shall
be saved.
21 And when he had said these
things to his disciples, we saw
him ascending up to heaven.
22 When the chief priests, and
elders, and Levites heard these
things, they said to these three
men, Give glory to the God of
Israel, and make confession to
him, whether those things are true,
which ye say ye have seen and
heard.
23 They answering said, As
the Lord of our fathers liveth, the
God of Abraham, and the God of
Isaac, and the God of Jacob, ac
cording as we heard Jesus talking
with his disciples, and according
as we saw him ascending up to
heaven, so we have related the
truth to you.
24 And the three men farther
answered, and said, adding these
words, If we should not own the
words which we heardJesus speak,
and that we saw him ascending
into heaven, we should be guilty
of sin.
25 Then the chief priests im
mediately rose up, and holding
the book of the law in their hands,
conjured these men, saying, Ye
shall no more hereafter declare
* Matt. xxviii. 16, and Mark Xvi. 16.
76
Joseph of Arimathaea
those things which ye have spoke
concerning Jesus.
26 And they gave them a large
sum of money, and sent other per
sons along with them, who should
conduct them to their own coun
try, that they might not by any
meansmake any stay at Jerusalem.
27 Then the Jews did assemble
all together, and having express
ed the most lamentable concern,
said, What is this extraordinary
thing which is come to pass in Je
rusalem
28 But Annas and Caiaphas
comforted them, saying, Why
should we believe the soldiers who
guarded the sepulchre of Jesus,
in telling us, that an angel rolled
away the stone from the door of
the sepulchre'ſ
29 Perhaps his own disciples
told them this, and gave them mo
ney that they should say so, and
they themselves took away the
body of Jesus.
30 Besides, consider this, that
there is no credit to be given to
foreigners, because they also took
a large sum of us, and they have
declared to us according to the
instructions which we gave them.
They must either befaithful to us,
or to the disciples of Jesus.
CHAP. XI
1 Nicodemus counsels the Jews. 6 Joseph
found. 11 Invited by the Jews to return.
19 Relates the manner of his miracu
lous escape.
HEN Nicodemus arose, and
said, Ye say right, O sons of
Israel, ye have heard what those
three men have sworn by the Law
of God, who said, We have seen
Jesus speaking with his disciples
upon Mount Olivet, and we saw
him ascending up to heaven.
NICODEMUS. invited by the Jews.
2 And the scripture teacheth us
that theblessed prophet Elijah was
taken up to heaven; and Elisha
being asked by the sons of the pro
phets, Where is our father Elijah
He said to them, that he is taken
up to heaven.
3 And the sons of the prophets
said to him, Perhaps the spirit
hath carried him into one of the
mountains of Israel, there perhaps
we shall find him. And they be
sought Elisha, and he walked
about with them three days, and
they could not find him.
4 And now hear me, O sons of
Israel, and let us send men into
the mountains of Israel, lest per
haps the spirit hath carried away
Jesus, and there perhaps we shall
find him, and be satisfied.
5 And thecounsel ofNicodemus
pleased all the people ; and they
sent forth men who sought for Je
sus, but could not find him : and
they returning, said, We went all
about, but could not find Jesus,
but we have found Joseph in his
city of Arimathaea.
6 The rulers hearing this, and
all the people, were glad, and
praised the God of Israel, because
Joseph was found, whom they had
shut up in a chamber, and could
not find.
7 And when they had formed
a large assembly, the chief priests
said, Bywhat means shall we bring
Joseph to us to speak with him
8 And taking a piece of paper,
they wrote to him, and said, Peace
be with thee, and all thy family.
We know that we have offended
against God and thee. Be
pleased to give a visit to us your
fathers, for we were perfectly sur
prised at your escape from prison.
'Heathens.
77
to relate the
9 We know that it was malici
ous counsel which we took against
thee, and that the Lord took care
of thee, and theLord himself deli
vered thee from our designs. Peace
be unto thee, Joseph, who art
honourable among all the people.
10 And they chose seven of
Joseph's friends, and said to them,
When ye come to Joseph, salute
him in peace, and give him this
letter.
11 Accordingly, when the men
came to Joseph, they did salute
him in peace, and gave him the
letter.
12 And when Joseph had read
it, he said, Blessed be the Lord
God, who didst deliver me from
the Israelites, that they could not
shed my blood. Blessed be God,
who has protected me under thy
wings.
13 And Joseph kissed them,
and took them into his house. And
on the morrow, Joseph mounted
his ass, and went along with them
to Jerusalem.
14 And when all the Jews
heard these things, they went out
to meet him, and cried out, say
ing, Peace attend thy coming hi
ther, father Joseph.
15 To which he answered, Pros
perity from the Lord attend all
the people.
16 And they all kissed him;
and Nicodemus took him to his
house, having prepared a large en
tertainment.
17 But on the morrow, being a
preparation-day, Annas, and Cai
aphas, and Nicodemus, said to Jo
seph, Make confession to the God
of Israel, and answer to us all
those questions which we shall ask
thee;
18 For we have been very much
troubled, that thou didst bury the
NICODEMU.S. manner of his escape
body of Jesus; and that when we
had locked thee in a chamber, we
could not find thee; and we have
been afraid ever since, till this
time of thy appearing among us.
Tell us therefore before God, all
that came to pass.
19 Then Joseph answering,
said, Ye did indeed put me under
confinement, on the day of pre
paration, till the morning.
20 But while I was standing at
prayer in the middle of the night,
the house was surrounded with
four angels; and I saw Jesus as
the brightness of the sun, and fell
down upon the earth for fear.
21 But Jesus laying hold on
my hand, lifted me from the
ground, and the dew was then
sprinkled upon me; but he, wiping
my face, kissed me, and said unto
me, Fear not, Joseph ; look upon
me, for it is I.
22 Then I looked upon him,
and said, Rabboni Elias |
swered me, I am not Elias, but
Jesus of Nazareth, whose body
thou didst bury.
23 I said to him, Shew me the
tomb in which I laid thee.
24 Then Jesus, taking me by
the hand, led me unto the place
where I laid him, and shewed me
thelinen clothes, andnapkin which
Iput round his head. Then I knew
that it was Jesus, and worshipped
him, and said, Blessed be he who
cometh in the name of the Lord.
25 Jesus again taking me by the
hand, led me to Arimatha’a to my
own house, and said to me, Peace
be to thee; but go not out of thy
house till the fortiethday ; but I
must go to my disciples.
CHAP. XII.
1 The Jews astonished and confounded.
17 Simeon's two sons, Charinus and Len
thius, rise from thedead at Christ'scrue
He an
78
The Jews dismayed.
cifixion. 19 Joseph proposes to get
them to relate the mysteries of their re
surrection. 21 They are sought and
found, 22 brought to the synagogue, 23
privately sworn to secrecy, 25 and un
dertake to write what they had seen.
HEN the chief priests and
W Levites heard all these
things, they were astonished, and
fell down with their faces on the
ground as dead men, and crying
out to one another, said, What is
this extraordinary sign which is
come to pass in Jerusalem? We
know the father and mother of
Jesus.
2 And a certain Levite said, I
know many of his relations, reli
gious persons, who are wont to
offer sacrifices and burnt-offerings
to the God of Israel, in the tem
ple, with prayers.
3 And when the high priest
Simeon took him up in his arms,
he said to him, "Lord, now lettest
thou thy servant depart in peace,
according to thy word; for mine
eyes have seen thy Salvation,
which thou hast prepared before
the face of all people : a light to
enlighten the Gentiles, and the
glory of thy people Israel.
4 Simeon in like manner bless
ed Mary the mother of Jesus, and
said to her, I declare to thee con
cerning that child; He is appoint
ed for the full and rising again of
many, and for a sign which shall
be spoken against.
5 Yea, a sword shall pierce
through thine own soul also, and
the thoughts of many hearts shall
be revealed.
6 Then said all the Jews, Let
us send to those three men, who
said they saw him talking with
his disciples in Mount Olivet.
* Luke, ii. 29.
NICODEMU.S.
* Deut. xvii. 6.
Charinus and Lenthius,
7 After this, they asked them
what they had seen ; who answer
ed with one accord, Inthepresence
of the God of Israel we affirm,
that we plainly saw Jesus talking
with his disciples in Mount Oli
vet, and ascending up to heaven.
8 Then Annas and Caiaphas
took them into separate places,
and examined them separately;
who unanimously confessed the
truth, and said, they had seen
Jesus.
9 Then Annas and Caiaphas
said “Our law saith, By the mouth
of two or three witnesses every
word shall be established”
10 But what have we said 1
The blessed Enoch pleased God,
and was translated by the word of
God; and the burying-place of
the blessed Moses is known.
11 But Jesus was delivered to
Pilate, whipped, crowned with
thorns, spit upon, pierced with a
spear, crucified, died upon the
cross, and was buried, and his bo.
dy the honorable Joseph buried
in a new sepulchre, and he testifies
that he saw him alive.
12 And besides, these men
have declared, that they saw him
talking with his disciples inMount
Olivet, and ascending up to
heaven.
13 * Then Joseph rising up,
said to Annas and Caiaphas, Ye
may be justly under a great sur
prize, that you have been told,
that Jesus is alive, and gone up to
heaven.
14 It is indeed a thing really
surprising, that he should not only
himself arise from the dead, but
also raise others from their graves,
who have been seen by many in
Jerusalem.*
* Matt. xxvii. 53
7
who rose with Christ,
15 And now hear me a little :
We all knew the blessed Simeon,
the high-priest, who took Jesus
when an infant into his arms in
thc temple.
16 This same Simeon had two
sons of his own, and we were all
present at their death and fu
neral.
17 Go therefore and see their
tombs, for these are open, and
they are risen: and behold, they
are in the city of Arimathasa,
spending their time together in
offices of devotion,
18 Some, indeed, have heard
the sound oftheir voices in prayer,
but they will not discourse with
any one, but they continue as
mute as dead men.
19 But come, let us go to them,
and behave ourselves towards them
with all due respect and caution.
And if we can bring them to
swear, perhaps they will tell us
some of the mysteries of their
resurrection.
20 When the Jews heard this,
they were exceedingly rejoiccd.
21 Then Annas and Caiaphas,
Nicodemus, Joseph, and Gamaliel,
want to Arimathaea, but did not
find them in their graves; but
walking about the city, they found
them on their bended knees at
their devotions:
22 Then saluting them with all
respect and deference to God, they
brought them to the synagogue at
Jerusalem : and having shut the
gates, they took the book of the
law of the Lord,
23 And puttingitintheir hands,
swore them by God Adonai, and
the God of Israel, who spake to
our fathers by the law and the
prophets, saying, If ye believe
him who raised you from the dead,
NICODEMUS. relate his descent to hell.
to be Jesus, tell us what we have
seen, and how ye were raised
from the dead.
24 Charinus and Lenthius, the
two sons of Simeon, trembled
when they heard these things, and
were disturbed, and groaned;
and at the same time looking up
to heaven, they made the sign of
the cross with their fingers on
their tongues,
25 And immediatelythey spake,
and said, Give each of us some
paper, and we will write down for
you all those things which we have
seen. And they each sat down and
wrote, saying,
CHAP. XIII.
1 The narrative of Charinus and Len
thius cornmences. 3 A great light in
hell. 7 Simeon arrives, and announces
the coming of Christ.
LORD Jesus and Father,
who art God, also the resur
rection and life of the dead, give
us leave to declare thy mysteries,
which we saw after death, belong
ing to thy cross; for we are sworn
by thy name.
2 For thou hast forbid thy ser.
vants to declare the secret things,
which were wrought by thy divine
power in hell.
3 T When we were placed
with our fathers in the depth
of hell, in the blackness of dark
ness, on a sudden there appear
ed the colour of the sun like
gold, and a substantial purple
coloured light enlightening the
place.
4 Presently upon this, Adam,
the father of all mankind, with
all the patriarchs and prophets,
rejoiced and said. That light is
80
who rose with Christ,
the author of everlasting light,
who hath promised to translate us
to everlasting light.
5 Then Isaiah theprophet cried
out, and said,” This is the light of
the Father, and the Son of God,
according to my prophecy, when I
was alive upon earth.
6 The land of Zabulon, and the
land of Nephthalim beyond Jor
dan, a people who walked in
darkness, saw a great light ; and
to them who dwelled in the region
of the shadow of death, light is
arisen. And now he is come, and
hath enlightened us who sat in
death.
7 And while we are all rejoic
ing in the light which shone upon
us our father Simeon came among
us and congratulating all the com.
pany, said, Glorify the Lord Jesus
Christ the Son of God.
8 Whom I took up in my arms
when an infant in the temple, and
being moved by the Holy Ghost,
said to him, and acknowledged,”
That now mine eyes have seen
thy salvation, which thou hast
prepared before the face of all
people, a light to enlighten the
Gentiles and the glory of thy
people Israel.
9 All the saints who were in
the depth of hell, hearing this,
rejoiced the more.
10 Afterwards there came forth
one like a little hermit, and was
asked by every one, who art Thou!
11 To which he replied, I am
the voice of one crying in the
wilderness, John the Baptist, and
the prophet of the Most High,
who went before his coming to
prepare his way, to give the know
ledge of salvation to his people
for the forgiveness of sins.
'Isai. xi. l.; Matt. iv. 16.
NICODEMUS. relates his descent to hell.
12 And I John, when I saw
Jesus coming to me, being moved
by the Holy Ghost, Isaid, Behold
the Lamb of God, behold him who
takes away the sins of the world.
13 And I baptized him in the
river Jordan, and saw the Holy
Ghost descending upon him in
the form of a dove, and heard a
voice from heaven, saying, This
is my beloved Son, in whom I am
well pleased.
13 And now while I was going
before him, I came down hither
to acquaint you, that the Son of
God will next visit us, and, as the
day-spring from on high, will come
to us, who are in darkness and
the shadow of death.
CHAP. XIV.
1 A dam causes Seth torelate what he heard
Jrom Michael the archangel, when he
sent him to Paradise to entreat God to
anoint his head in his sickness.
UT when the first man our
father Adam heard these
things, that Jesus was baptized in
Jordan,” he called out to his son,
Seth, and said,
2 Declare to your sons, the pa
triarchs and prophets, all those
things, which thou didst hear from
Michael, the archangel, when I
sent thee to the gates of Paradise,
to entreat God that he would a
noint my head when I was sick.
3 Then Seth, coming near to
the patriarchs and prophets, said,
I Seth, when I was praying to
God at the gates of Paradise,
beheld the angel of the Lord,
Michael appear unto me saying, I
am sent unto thee from the Lord;
I am appointed to preside over
human bodies.
* Matt. iii. 18.
* Luke ii. 29.
l1 81
Satan and the Prince
4 I tell thee Seth, do not pray
$o God in tears, and entreat him
for the oil of the tree of mercy
wherewith to anoint thy father
Adam for his head-ache;
5 Because thou canst not by
any means obtain it till the last
day and times, namely, till five
thousand and five hundred years
be past.
6 Then will Christ, the most
merciful Son of God, come on
earth to raise again the human
body of Adam, and at the same
timeto raise the bodies of the dead,
and when he cometh he will be
baptized in Jordan :
7 Then with the oil of his mer
cy he will anoint all those who be
lieve on him; and the oil of his
mercy will continue to future ge
nerations, for those who shall be
born of the water and the Holy
Ghost unto eternal life.
8 And when at that time the
most merciful Son of God, Christ
Jesus, shall come down on earth,
he will introduce our father Adam
into Paradise, to the tree of
mercy.
9 When all the patriarchs and
prophets heard all these things
from Seth, they rejoiced more.
CHAP. XV.
1 Quarrel between Satan and the prince
of hell concerning the expected arrival
of Christ in hell.
HILE all the saints were
rejoicing, beholdSatan, the
prince and captain of death, said
to the prince of hell,"
2 Prepare to receive Jesus of
Nazareth himself, who boasted
that he was the Son of God, and
yet was a man afraid of death,
NICODEMUS. of hell quarrel.
and said, “My soul is sorrowful
even to death.
3 Besides he did many injuries
to me and to many others; for
those whom I made blind and
lame and those also whom I tor
mented with several devils, he
cured by his word; yea, and those
whom I brought dead to thee,
he by force takes away from
thee.
4 To this the prince of hell re
plied to Satan, Who is that so
powerful prince, and yet a man
who is afraid of death ;
5 For all the potentates of the
earth are subject to my power,
whom thou broughtest to sub
jection by thy power.
6 But if he be so powerful in
his human nature, I affirm to thee
for truth, that he is almighty in
his divine nature, and no man can
resist his power.
7. When therefore he said he
was afraid of death, he designed
to ensnare thee, and unhappy it
will be to thee for everlasting
ages.
8 Then Satan replying, said to
the prince of hell, Why didst
thou express a doubt, and wast
afraid to receive that Jesus of Na
zareth, both thy adversary and
mine !
9 As for me, I tempted him
and stirred up my old people the
Jews with zeal and anger against
him :
10 I sharpened the spear for
his suffering; Imixed thegall and
vinegar, and commanded that he
should drink it ; I prepared the
cross to crucify him, and the nails
to pierce through his hands and
1 St. Jerome affirms that the soul of Christ went to hell
Matt. xxvi. 38.
82
Christ arrives at hell,
feet; and now his death is near at
hand, I will bring him hither, sub
ject both to thee and me.
11 Then the prince of hell an
swering, said, Thou saidst to me
just now, that he took away the
dead from me by force.
12 They who have been kept
here till they should live again
upon earth, were taken away
hence, not by their own power,
but by prayers made to God, and
their almighty God took them
from me.
13 Who then is that Jesus of
Nazareth that by his word hath
taken away the dead from me
without prayer to God?
14 Perhaps it is the same who
took away from me Lazarus, after
he had been four days dead, and
did both stink and was rotten, and
of whom I had possession as a
dead person, yet he brought him
to life again by his power.
15 Satan answering, replied to
the prince of hell, It is the very
same person, Jesus of Nazareth,
I6 Which when the prince of
hell heard, he said to him, I ad
jure thee by the powers which
belong to thee and me, that thou
bring him not to me.
17 For when I heard of the
power of his word, I trembled for
fear, and all my impious company
were at the same disturbed ;
18 And we were not able to de
tain Lazarus * but he gave himself
a shake, and with all the signs of
malice, he immediately went away
from us; and the very earth, in
which the dead body of Lazarus
was lodged, presently turned him
out alive.
19 And I know now that he is
Almighty God who could perform
*John xi.
NICODEMUS.
* Psalm xxiv. 7, &c.
and Satan is expellea.
such things, who is mighty in his
dominion, and mighty in his hu
man nature, who is the Saviour of
mankind.
20 Bring not therefore this
person hither, for he will set at
liberty all those whom I hold in
prison under unbelief, and bound
with the fetters of their sins, and
will conduct them to everlasting
life.
CHAP. XVI.
1 Christ's arrival at hell-gates; the con
fusion thereupon. 10 He descends
into hell.
ND while Satan and the
prince of hell were dis
coursing thus to each other, on a
sudden there was a voice as of
thunder and the rushing of winds,
saying, "Lift up your gates, O ye
princes ; and be ye lift up, O
everlasting gates, and the King of
Glory shall come in.
2. When the prince of hell
heard this, he said to Satan, De
part from me, and begone out of
my habitations; if thou art a
powerful warrior, fight with the
Ring of Glory. But what hast
thou to do with him ;
3 And he cast him forth from
his habitations.
4 And the prince said to his
impious officers, Shut the brass
gates of cruelty, and make them
fast with iron bars, and fight
courageously, lest we be taken
captives.
5 But when all the company of
the saints heard this they spake
with a loud voice of anger to the
prince of hell:
6 Open thy gates that the
King of Glory may come in.
7 And the divine prophet Da
vid, creid out, saying, *Did not I
* Psalm cvii. 15, &c.
83
Hell greatly disturbed on NICODEMU.S.
when on earth, truly prophesy
and say, O that men would praise
the Lord for his goodness, and
$or his wonderful works to the
children of men.
8 For he hath broken the gates
of brass, and cut the bars of iron
in sunder. He hath taken them
because of their iniquity, and
because of their unrighteousness
they are afflicted.
9 After this another prophet,”
namely, holy Isaiah, spake in like
manner to all the saints, did not
I rightly prophecy to you when I
was alive on earth
10 The dead men shall live,
and they shall rise again who are
in their graves, and they shall
rejoice who are in earth; for the
dew which is from the Lord shall
bring deliverence to them.
11 And I said in another place,
9 death, where is thy victory?
O death, whore is thy sting?
12 When all the saints heard
these things spoken by Isaiah,
they said to the prince of hell,”
Open now thy gates, and take
away thine iron bars; for thou
wilt now be bound, and have no
power.
13 Then there was a great
voice, as of the sound of thunder
saying, Lift up your gates, O
princes; and be ye lifted up, ye
gates of hell, and the King of
Glory will enter in.
14 The prince of hell perceiving
the same voice repeated, cried out
as though he had been ignorant,
Who is that King of Glory?
15 David replied to the prince
of hell, and said, I understand
the words of that voice, because
I spake them by his spirit. And
now, as I have above said, I say
Isaiah xxvi. 19. * Psalm xxiv. 7, &c.
Christ's going thither.
unto thee, the Lord strong and
powerful, the Lord mighty in
battle : he is the King of Glory,
and he is the Lord in heaven and
in earth;
16 He hath looked down te
hear the groans of the prisoner,
and to set loose those that are
appointed to death.”
17 And now, thou filthy and
stinking prince of hell, open thy
gates, that the King of Glory may
enter in ; for he is the Lord of
heaven and earth.
18 While David was saying
this, the mighty Lord appeared
in the form of a man, and en
lightened those places which had
ever before been in darkness,
19 And broke asunder the fet
ters which before could not be
broken; and with his invincible
power visited those who sate in
the deep darkness by iniquity, and
the shadow of death by sin.”
CHAP. XVII.
l Death and the devils in great horror at
Christ's coming. 13 He tramples on
death, seizes the prince of hell, and takes
Adam with him to heaven.
MPIOUS Death and her cruel
officers hearing these things
were seized with fear in their se. .
veral kingdoms, whenthey sawthe
clearness of the light,
2 And Christ himself on a sud
den appearing in their habitations;
they cried out therefore, and said
We are bound by thee; thou seem
est to intend our confusion before
the Lord.
3 Who art thou, who hast no
signs ofcorruption, but that bright
appearance which is a full proof
of thy greatness, of which yet thou
seemest to take no notice?
* Psalm cii. 19, 20. “Luke, i. 79.
84
Christ gives Beelzebub
4 Who art thou, so powerful
and so weak, so great and so
little, a mean and yet a soldier of
the first rank, who can command
in the form of a servant as a com
mon soldier'
5 The King of Glory, dead
and alive, though once slain upon
the cross?
6 Who layest dead in the
grave, and art come down alive to
us, and in thy death all the crea
tures trembled, and all the stars
were moved, and now hast thy
liberty among the dead, and givest
disturbance to our legions?
7 Who art thou, who dost re
lease the captives that were held
in chains by original sin, and
bringest them into their former
liberty
8 Who art thou, who dost
spread so glorious and divine a
light over those who were made
blind by the darkness of sin
9 In like manner all the legions
of devils were seized with the like
horror, and with the most submis
sive fear cried out, and said,
10 Whence comes it, O thou
Jesus Christ, that thou art a man
so powerful and glorious in ma
jesty, so bright as to have no spot,
and so pure as to have no crime?
For that lower world of earth,
which was ever till now subject to
us, and from whence we received
tribute, never sent us such a dead
man before, never sent such pre
sents as these to the princes of
hell.
11 Who therefore art thou,
who with such courage enterest
among our abodes, and art not
only not afraid to threaten us with
the greatest punishments, but also
endeavourest to rescue all others
from the chains in which we hold
them
NICOL)EMU.S.
--- -
---
dominiºn over Satan.
12 Perhaps thou art that Jesus,
of whom Satan just now spoke to
our prince, that by the death of
the cross thou wert about to re
ceive the power of death.
13 Then the King of Glory
trampling upon death, seized the
prince of hell, deprived him of all
his power, and took our earthly
father Adam with him to his glory.
CHAP. XVIII.
1 Beelzebub, prince of hell, vehemently
upbraids Satan for persecuting Christ
and bringing him to hell. 14 Christ
gives Beelzebub dominion over Satan for
ever, as a recompense for taking away
Adam and his sons.
HEN the prince of hell took
Satan, and with great indig.
nation said to him, O thou prince
of destruction, author of Beelze
bub's defeat and banishment, the
scorn of God's angels and loathed
by all righteous persons ! What
inclined thee to act thus?
2 Thou wouldst crucify the
King of Glory, and by his de
struction, hast made us promises
of very large advantages, but as
a fool wert ignorant of what thou
wast about.
3 For behold now that Jesus of
Nazareth, with the brightness of
his glorious divinity, puts to flight
all the horrid powers of darkness
and death;
4 He has broke down our pri
sons from top to bottom, dismissed
all the captives, released all who
were bound, and all who were
wont formerly to groan under the
weight of their torments have
now insulted us, and we are like
to be defeated by their prayers.
5 Our impious dominions are
subdued, and no part of mankind
is now left in our subjection, but
on the other hand, they all boldly
defy us;
85
Leaves hell anº. takes
6 Though, before,
never durst behave themselves
insolently towards us, nor, being
prisoners, could ever on any
occasion be merry.
7 || 0 Satan, thou prince of
all the wicked, father of the im
pious and abandoned, why would
est thou attempt this exploit,
seeing our prisoners were hitherto
always without the least hopes of
salvation and life
8 But now there is not one of
them does ever groan, nor is there
the least appearance of a tear in
any of their faces.
9 O prince Satan, thou great
keeper of the infernal regions, all
thy advantages which thou didst
acquire by the forbidden tree,
and the loss of Paradise, thou hast
now lost by the wood of the cross ;
10 And thy happiness all then
expired, when thou didst crucify
Jesus Christ the King of Glory.
11 Thou has acted against
thine own interest and mine, as
thou wilt presently perceive by
those large torments and infinite
punishments which thou art about
to suffer.
12 O Satan, prince of all evil,
author of death, and source of all
pride, thou shouldest first have in
quired into the evil crimes of Jesus
of Nazareth, and then thou would
est have found that he was guilty
of no fault worthy of death.
13 Why didst thou venture,
without either reason or justice,
to crucify him, and hast brought
down to our regions a person in
nocent and righteous, and thereby
hast lost all the sinners, impious
and unrighteous persons in the
whole world !
14 While the prince of hell was
NICO I) EMU.S.
the dead
the suinte with him.
thus speaking to Satan, the King
of Glory said to Beelzebub, the
prince of hell, Satan the prince
shall be subject to thy dominion
for ever, in the room of Adam
and his righteous sons, who are
mine.
CHAP. XIX.
1 Christ takes Adam by the hand, the rest
of the saints join hands, and they all
ascend with him to Paradise.
HEN Jesus stretched forth
his hand, and said, Come to
me, all ye my saints, who were
created in my image, who were
condemned by the tree of the for.
bidden fruit, and by the devil and
death;
2 Live now by the wood of my
cross ; the devil, the prince of this
world, is overcome, and death is
conquered.
3 Then presently all the saints
were joined together under the
hand of the most high God; and
the Lord Jesus laid hold on
Adam's hand and said to him,
Peace be to thee, and all thy right
eous posterity, which is mine.
4 Then Adam, casting himself
at the feet of Jesus, addressed
himself to him, with tears, in
humble language, and a loud voice,
saying,"
5 I will extol thee, O Lord, for
thou hast lifted me up, and hast
not made my foes to rejoice over
me. O Lord my God, I cried unto
thee, and thouhast healed me.
6 O Lord thou hast brought
up my soul from the grave; thou
hast kept me alive, that I should
not go down to the pit.
7 Sing unto the Lord, all ye
saints of his, and give thanks at
the remembrance of his holiness.
"Psalm xxx. 1, &c.
86
Adam converses
For his anger endureth but for a
moment; in his favour is life.
8 In like manner all the saints,
prostrate at the feet of Jesus, said
with one voice, Thou art come, O
Redeemer of the world, and hast
actually accomplished all things,
which thou didst foretell by the
law and thy holy prophets.
9 Thou hast redeemed the liv
ing by thy cross, and art come
down to us, that by the death of
the cross thou mightest deliver us
from hell, and by thy power from
death.
10 O, Lord, as thou hast put
the ensigns of thy glory in hea.
ven, and hast set up the sign of
thy redemption, even thy cross on
earth ! so, Lord, set the sign of
the victory of thy cross in hell,
that death may have dominion no
longer.
11 Then the Lord stretching
forth his hand, made the sign of
the cross upon Adam, and upon
all his saints.
12 And taking hold of Adam
by his right hand, he ascended
{rom hell, and all the saints of
God followed him.
13 Then the royal prophet
MDavid boldly cried, and said,'
O sing unto the Lord a new song,
tor he hath done marvellous
things; his right hand and his
holy arm have gotten him the
victory.
14 The Lord hath made known
his salvation, his righteousness
hath he openly shewn in the sight
of the heathen.
15 And the whole multitude of
saints answered, saying This
honour have all his saints, Amen,
Praise ye the Lord.
16 Afterwards, the prophet
"Psalm xcviii. 1, &c.
* Gen. v. 24.
NICODEMUS.
* Psalm cylix. 3. * Hab. iii. 13.
with Enoch, &c.
Habbakuk" cried out, and said,
Thou wentest forth for the salva.
tion of thy people, even for the
salvation of thy people.
17 And all the saints said,'
Blessed is he who cometh in the
name of the Lord; for the Lord
hath enlightened us. This is our
God for ever and ever; he shall
reign over us to everlasting ages,
Amen.
18 In like manner all the pro
phets spake the sacred things of
his praise, and followed the Lord.
CHAP. XX.
1 Christ delivers Adam to Michael the
archangel. 3 They meet Enoch and
Elijah in heaven, 5 and also the blessed
thief, who relates how he came to Para
dise.
HEN the Lord holding Adam
by the hand, delivered him
to Michael the archangel; and he
led them into Paradise, filled with
mercy and glory;
2 And two very ancient men
met them, and were asked by the
saints, Who are ye, who have not
yet been with us in hell, and have
had your bodies placed in Para
dise ?
3 One of them answering, said,
I am Enoch, who was translated
by the word of God;’ and this
man who is with me, is Elijah the
Tishbite, who was translated in a
fiery chariot."
4 Here we have hitherto been,
and have not tasted death, but
are now about to return at the
coming of Antichrist, being armed
with divine signs and miracles, tw
engage with him in battle, and to
be slain by him at Jerusalem, and
to be taken up alive again into
* Matt. xx it i. 39.
* Kings ii. 11.
§ 87
Blessed thie)'s story,
the clouds, after three days and a
half."
5 ºf And while the holy Enoch
and Elias were relating this, be
hold there came another man in a
miserable figure, carrying the
sign of the cross upon his shoul
ders.
6 And when all the saints saw
him, they said to him, Who art
thou? For thy countenance is
like a thief's ; and why dost thou
carry a cross upon thy shoulders ?
7 To which he answering, said,
Ye say right, for I was a thief,
who committed all sorts of wicked.
ness upon earth.
8 And the Jews crucified me
with Jesus; and I observed the
surprising things which happened
in the creation at the crucifixion
of the Lord Jesus.
9 And I believed him to be the
Creator of all things, and the Al
mighty King; and I prayed to
him, saying, Lord remember me,
when thou comest into thy king
dom.
10 He presently regarded my
supplication, and said to me,
Verily I say unto thee, this day
thou shalt be with me in Paradise.”
11 And he gave me this sign
of the cross, saying, Carry this,
and go to Paradise; and if the
angel who is the guard of Paradise
will not admit thee, shew him the
sign of the cross, and say unto
him ; Jesus Christ who is now cru
cified, hath sent me hither to thee.
12. When I did this, and told
the angel who is the guard of Pa
radise all these things, and he
heard them, he presently opened
the gates, introduced me, and
placed me on the right-hand in
Paradise,
* Rev. xi. 11.
NICODEMU.S. how he came to Puradise.
13 Saying, Stay here a little
time, till Adam, the father of all
mankind, shall enter in, with all
his sons, who are the holy and
righteous servants of Jesus Christ,
who was crucified.
14 When they heard all this
account from the thief, all the
patriarchs said with one voice,
Blessed be thou, O Almighty God,
the Father of everlasting good
ness, and the Father of mercies,
who hast shewn such favour to
those who were sinners against
him, and hast brought them to
the mercy of Paradise, and hast
placed them amidst thy large and
spiritual provisions, in a spiritual
and holy life. Amen.
CHAP. XXI.
1 Charinus and Lenthius being only al.
lowed three days to remain on earth, 7
deliver in their narratives, which
miraculously correspond ; they vanish,
13 and Pilate records these transac
tions.
HESE are the divine and
sacred mysteries which we
saw and heard. I, Charinus and
Lenthius are not allowed to de
clare the other mysteries of God,
as the archangel Michael ordered
us,
2 Saying, ye shall go with my
brethren to Jerusalem, and shall
continue in prayers, declaring and
glorifying the resurrection of
Jesus Christ, seeing he hath raised
you from the dead at the same
time with himself.
3 And ye shall not talk with
any man, but sit as dumb persons
till the time come when the Lord
will allow you to relate the myste
ries of his divinity.
4 The archangel Michael far
ther commanded us to go beyond
* Luke xxiii. 43.
88
Charinus and Lenthius
Jordan, to an excellent and fat
country, where there are many
who rose from the dead along with
us for the proof of the resurrection
of Christ.
5 For we have only three days
allowed us from the dead, who
arose to celebrate the passover
of our Lord with our parents, and
to bear our testimony for Christ
the Lord, and we have been
baptized in the holy river of
Jordan. And now they are not
seen by any one.
6 This is as much as God al
lowed us to relate to you; give ye
therefore praise and honour to
him, and repent, and he will have
mercy upon you. Peace be to
you from the Lord God Jesus
Christ, and the Saviour of us all.
Amen, Amen, Amen.
7 And after they had made an
end of writing and had wrote in
two distinct pieces of paper, Cha
rinus gave what he wrote into the
hands of Annas, and Caiaphas,
and Gamaliel.
8 Lenthius likewise gave what
he wrote into the hands of Nico
demus and Joseph; and immedi
ately they were changed into
exceeding white forms and were
seen no more.
9 But what they had wrote was
found perfectly to agree, the one
not containing one letter more or
less than the other.
10 When all the assembly of
the Jews heard all these surpriz
ing relations of Charinus and
Lenthius, they said to each
other, Truly all these things were
wrought by God, and blessed be
the Lord Jesus for ever and
ever, Amen.
11 And they went alout with
great concern, and fear, and trem
bling, and smote upon their breasts
NICODEMUS. conclude their visit.
and went away every one to his
home.
12 But immediately all these
things which were related by the
Jews in their synagogues concern
ing Jesus, were presently told by
Joseph and Nicodemus to the
governor.
13 And Pilate wrote down all
these transactions, and placed all
these accounts in the public records
of his hall.
CHAP. XXII.
1 Pilate goes to the temple; calls together
the rulers, and scribes, and doctors. 2
Commands the gates to be shut; orders
the book of the Scripture; and causes
the Jews to relate what they really
knew concerning Christ. 14 They
declare that they crucified Christ in
ignorance, and that they now know him
to be the Son of God, according to the
testimony of theScriptures; which, after
they put him to death, they are exa
mined.
FTER these things Pilate
went to the temple of the
Jews, and called together all the
rulers and scribes, and doctors of
the law, and went with them into
a chapel of the temple.
2 And commanding that all the
gates should be shut, said to them,
I have heard that ye have a certain
large book in this temple; I desire
you therefore, that it may be
brought before me.
3 And when the great book,
carried by four ministers of the
temple, and adorned with gold and
precious stones, was brought, Pi
late said to them all, I adjure
you by the God of your Fathers,
who made and commanded this
temple to be built, that ye conceal
not the truth from me.
4 Ye know all the things which
are written in that book ; tell me
therefore now, if ye in the Scrip
tures have found any thing of that
12 89
The Jews repent and
Jesus whom ye crucified, and at
what time of the world he ought
to have come : shew it me.
5 Then having sworn Annas
and Caiaphas, they commanded
all the rest who were with them to
go out of the chapel.
6 And they shut the gates of
the temple and of the chapel, and
said to Pilate, Thou hast made us
to swear, O judge, by the build
ing of this temple, to declare to
thee that which is true and
right.
7 After we had crucified Jesus,
not knowing that he was the Son
of God, but supposing he wrought
this miracles by some magical arts,
we summoned a large assembly in
this temple.
8 And when we were delibe
rating among one another about
the miracles which Jesus had
wrought, we found many wit
nesses of our own country, who
declared that they had seen him
alive after his death, and that they
heard him discoursing with his
disciples, and saw him ascending
unto the height of the heavens,
and entering into them;
9 And we saw two witnesses,
whose bodies Jesus raised from
the dead, who told us of many
strange things which Jesus did
among the dead, of which we
have a written account in our
hands.
10 And it is our custom
annually to open this holy book
before an assembly, and to search
there for the counsel of God.
11 And we found in the first
of the seventy books, where
Michael the archangel is speaking
to the third son of Adam the first
man, an account that after five
NICOI) EMU.S. ucknowledge Christ.
thousand five hundred years,
Christ the most beloved Son of
God was come on earth,
12 And we further considered,
that perhaps he was the very God
of Israel who spoke to Moses,
Thou shalt make the ark of the
testimony; two cubits and a half
shall be the length thereof, and a
cubit and a half the breadth there
of, and a cubit and a half the
height thereof."
13 By these five cubits and a
half for the building of the ark of
the Old Testament, we perceived
and knew that in five thousand
years and half (one thousand)
years, Jesus Christ was to come
in the ark or tabernacle of a
body;
14 And so our Scriptures testify
that he is the son of God, and the
Lord and Ring of Israel.
15 And because after his suf
fering, our chief priests were sur
prised at the signs which were
wrought by his means, we opened
that book to search all the gene
rations down to the generation of
Joseph and Mary the mother of
Jesus, supposing him to be of the
seed of David; -
16 And we found the account
of the creation, and at what time
he made the heaven and the earth
and the first man Adam, and that
from thence to the flood, were two
thousand, two hundred and twelve
years.
17 And from the flood to Abra
ham, nine hundred and twelve.
And from Abraham to Moses,
four hundred and thirty. And
from Moses to David the king,
five hundred and ten.
18 And from David to the
Babylonish captivity, five hundred
* Exod. xxv. 10.
90
TIIE APOSTLES’ CREED.
years. Ald from the Babylonish
captivity to the incarnation of
Christ, four hundred years.
19 The sum of all which a
mounts to five thousand and half
(a thousand.)
20 And so it appears, that
Jesus whom we crucified, is Jesus
Christ the Son of God, and true
and Almighty God. Amen.
&n the name of the Holy Trinity.
thus end the Acts of our Su
viour Jesus Christ, which the
Emperor Theodosius the Great
found at Jerusalem, in the hall
of Pontius Pilate among the
public records ; the things
were acted in the nineteenth year
of Tiberius Cæsar, Ehnperor of
the Romans, and in the seven
teenth year of the government of
Herod the son of Herod king of
Galilee, on the eight of the ca.
lends of April, which is the
twenty-third day of the month of
March, in the CCI'd Olympiad,
when Joseph and Caiaphus were
Iłulers of the Jews ; being a
History written in Hebrew by
Nicodemus, of what happened
after our Saviours's crucificion.
The APOSTLES’ CREED.
{{! is affirmed by Ambrose, “that the twelve Apostles, as skilful artificers
assembled together, and made a .their common advice, that is, the
Creed; by which the darkness of the devil is disclosed, that the light of
Christ may appear.” Others fable that every Apostle inserted an article,
by which the creed is divided into twelve articles; and a sermon, fathered
upon St. Austin, and quoted by the Lord Chancellor King, fabricates that
each particular article was thus inserted by each particular Apostle:—
“Peter.—1. I believe in God the Father Almighty;
“John.—2. Maker of heaven and earth ;
“James.—3. And in Jesus Christ his only Son, our Lord ;
“Andrew.—4. Who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, born of the Wir
gin Mary;
“Philip.–5. Suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, dead and
buried ;
“Thomas.-6. He descended into hell, the third day he arose again from
the dead;
“Bartholomew.—7. He ascended into heaven, sitteth at the right hand
of God the Father º ;
“Matthew.—8. From thence he shall come to judge the quick and the
dead;
* James, the son of Alpheus.-9. I believe in the Holy Ghost, the holy
Catholic Church;
“Simeon Zelotes.—10. The communion ofsaints, the forgiveness of sins;
“Jude, the brother of James.—ll The resurrection of the body;
“Matthias.-12. Life everlasting. Amen.”
Archbishop WAKE says, “With respect to the Apostles being the au.
thors of this Creed, it is not my intention to enter on any particular exa
mination of this matter, which has been so fully handled, not only by the
late critics of the Church of Rome, Natalis Alexander,” Du Pin,’ &c., but
Amb. Opera, tom. iii. Serm. 38, p.265. "King's Hist. Apost. Creed, 8vo, p. 26.
"Nat. Alex. $ I. vol. i. p. 490, &c. “Du Pin, Biblioth. Eccles. vol. i. p. 25, &c.
Q1
THE APOSTLES’ CREEL).
et Inore especiallyby Archbishop Usher,' Gel-ru Vossiue, sulcer, Span
emius," Tentzelius,” and Sam. Basnage,"ainong the Protestants at shall
suffice tosay, that as itis not likely, that had any such thing as this been
done by the Apostles, St. Luke would have passed it by, without taking
the least notice of it: So the diversity of Creeds in the ancient Church,
andthat not only in expression, but in some whole Articlestoo, sufficiently
shews, that the Creed which we call by that name, was not composed by
the twelve Apostles, much less in the same form in which it now is.”
Mr. Justice BAILEY says, “It is not to be understood that this Creed
was framed by the Apostles, or indeed that it existed as a Creed in their
time;” and after giving the Creed as it existed in the year 600, and which
is here copied from his Common Prayer Book, he says, “how long this
form had existed before the year 600 is not exactly known. The additions
were probably made in opposition to particular heresies and errors.”
The most important “addition,” since the year of Christ 600, is that
which affirms, that Christ descended into hell. This has been proved not
only to have been an invention after the Apostles' time, but even after the
time of Eusebius, Bishop Pearson says,’ that the descent into hell was
not in the ancient creeds or rules of faith. “It is not to be found in the
rules of faith delivered by Irenaeus,” by Origen,” or by Tertullian.” lt
is not expressed in those creeds which were made by the councils as larger
. of the Apostles' Creed; not in the Nicene, or Constantino
politan; not in those of Ephesus, or Chalcedon; not in those confessions
made at Sardica, Antioch, Selucia, Sirmium, &c. It is not mentioned
in several confessions offaith delivered by particular persons; not in that
of Eusebius Caesariensis, presented to the council of Nice;” not in that of
Marcellus, bishop of Ancyra, delivered to Pope Julius;" not in that of
Arius and Euzoius, presented to Constantine;" not in that of Acacius,
bishop of Caesarea, delivered into the synod of Selucia;" not in that of
Eustathius, Theophilus, and Sylvanus, sent to Liberius;" thereis no men
tion of it in the creed of St. Basil;" in the creed of Epiphanus,” Gelasius,
Damascus, Macarius, &c. It is not in the creed expounded by St. Cyril,
though some have produced that creed to prove it. It is not in the
creed expounded by St. Augustine;” not in that other,” atributed to
St Augustine in another place; not in that expounded by Maximus Tau
rinensis; nor in that so often interpreted by Petrus Chrysologus; nor
in that of the church of Antioch, delivered by Cassianus;* neither is it
to be seen in the MS. creeds set forth by the learned Archbishop of Ar
magh. It is affirmed by Ruffinus, that in his time it was neither in the
Roman nor the Oriental Creeds.”
* Diatrib. de Symb. *Voss. Dissert. de tribus Symbolis. * Suicer. The
saur. Eccles.tom. ii. Voce orvpso}\ov, p. 1086, &c. *Spanhem, Intro. ad Hist.
Eccles. § ii. c. 3. “Ernest. Tentzel. Exercit. select. Exercit. I. *Sam.
Basnage Exercit. Hist. Crit. ad Ann. XLIV. num. 17, 18. "Wake's Apost
Fathers, 8vo, p. 103. "Mr. Justice Bailey's Common Prayer, 1818, p.
9. "Pearson on the Creed, fol. 1676, p. 225. " Lib. 1, c. 2. * Lib. de
Princip. in Prooem. * Advers. Praxeam. c. ii. Virgin. veland. c. 1.-De
Praescript. advers. Haeres. c. 18. *Theodoret, l. 1. c. 2. “Epiphan.
Hae. es. 72. 15 Socrat. l. 1. c. 19. *Ibid. l. 2. c. 40. 17 Ibid. l. 4. c.
12. 1" Tract. de Fide in Ascet. 1" In Anchorat, c. 120. * De Fide et Sym
bolo. * De Symbolo ad Catechumenos. ** De Incarnat. lib. 6. * Exposit
in Symbol. Apost. § 20.
92
THE APOSTLES’ CREED.
as it stood An. Dom. 600. Copied from
Mr. Justice Bailey's Edition ofthe book
of Common Prayer.
* Before the year 600, it was no more than
this.”—MR. Justice BAILEY.
p. 9. n.
1 I BELIEVE in God the Father
Almighty :
2 And in Jesus Christ his only
begotten son, our Lord ;
3 Who was born of the Holy
Ghost and Virgin Mary,
4 And was crucified under Pon
tims Pilate, and was buried;
5 And the third day rose again
from the dead,
6 Ascended into heaven, sitteth
on the right hand of the Father;
7 Whence he shall come to judge
the quick and the dead;
8 And in the Holy Ghost;
9 The Holy Church;
10 The remission of sins ;
ll And the resurrection of the
fleshJ Ainen.
As it stands in the book of Common
Prayer of the United Church of Eng
land and Ireland as by law established.
1 I BELIEVE in God the Father
Almighty, maker of heaven and
earth:
2 And in Jesu Christs his only
son, our Lord :
3 Who was conceived by the
Holy Ghost, born of the Virgin
Mary,
4 Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
was crucified, dead and buried;
5 He descended into hell;
6 The third day he rose again
from the dead:
7 He ascended into heaven, and
sitteth on the right hand of God
the Father Almighty;
8 From thence he shall come to
judge the quick and the dead.
9 * I believe in the Holy
Ghost ;
10 The holy Catholic Church ;
the communion of saints;
11 The forgiveness of sins;
12 The resurrection of the
body; and the life everlasting,
Amen.
THE EPISTLE of PAUL the APOSTLE to the LAODI
CEANS.
[This Epistle has been Fº
of Rome and others. T
esteemed by several learned men of the church
e Quakers have printed a translation, and plead
for it, as the reader may see, by consulting Poole's Annotations on Col
vi. 16. Sixtus Senensis mentions two MSS., the one in the Sorbonne
Library at Paris, which is a very ancient copy, and the other in the Li
brary of Joannes a Wiridario, at Padua, which he transcribed and pub
lished, and which is the authority for the following translation. ere
is a very old translation of this Epistle in the British Museum, among
the Harleian MSS., Cod. 1212.]
Ble salutes the brethren. 3 exorts them
to persevere in good works, 4 and not to
be moved by vain speaking. 6 Rejoices
in his bonds, 10 desires them to live in
the fear of the Lord.
l
AUL an Apostle, not of men,
neither by man, but by Jesus
Christ, to the brethren which are
at Laodicea.
2 Grace be to you, and Peace
from God the Father and our Lord
Jesus Christ.
3 I thank Christ in every
prayer of mine, that ye may con
tinue and persevere in good
works looking for that which is
promised in the day of judg
ment.
4 Let not the vain speeches of
any trouble you who pervert the
truth, that they may draw you
aside from the truth of the Gospel
which I have preached.
5 And now may God grant,
that my converts may attain to a
perfect knowledge of the truth of
the Gospel, be beneficent, and
doing good works which accom
pany salvation. |
6 And now my bonds, which
I suffer in Christ, are manifest, in
which I rejoice and am glad.
7 For I know that this shall
turn to my salvation for ever,
which shall be through your
prayer, and the supply of the Holy
Spirit.
94
8 Whether I live or die; (for)
to me to live shall be a life to
Christ, to die will be joy.
9 And our Lord will grant us
his mercy, that ye may have
the same love, and be like
minded.
10 Wherefore, my beloved, as
ye have heard of the coming of
the Lord, so think and act in fear,
and it shall be to you life eternal;
11 For it is God who worketh
in you;
12 And do all thingswithoutsin.
13 And what is best, my be
loved, rejoice in the Lord Jesus
Christ, and avoid all filthy
lucre.
14 Let all your requests be
made known to God, and be
steady in the doctrine of Christ.
15 And whatsoever things are
sound and true, and of good report,
and chaste, and just, and lovely,
these things do.
16 Those things which ye hav
heard, and received, think on these
things, and peace shall be with
you.
17 All the saints salute you.
18 The grace of our Lord Je
sus Christ be with your spirit.
Amen.
19 Cause this Epistle to be read
to the Colossians, and the Epistle
of the Colossians to be read among
you.
The EPISTLES of PAUL the APOSTLE to SENECA, with
SENECA'S to PAUL.
[Several very learned writers have entertained afavourable opinion of these Epistles.
They are undoubtedly of high antiquity. Salmeron cities them to prove that
Seneca was one of Caesar's household, referred to by Paul, Philip iv. 22, as
saluting the brethren at Philippi. In Jerome's enumeration of illustrious
men, he places Seneca, on account of these Epistles, amongst the ecclesiastical
and holy writers of the Christian Church. Sixtus Senensis has published them
in his Bibliotheque, pp. 89,90; and it is from thence that the present transla
tion is made. Baronius, Bellarmin
that they are not genuine.]
CHAP. I.
ANNANUs SENECA to PAUL Greeting.
SUPPOSE, Paul, you have
been informed of that conver
sation, which passed yesterday
between me and my Lucilius,
concerning hypocrisy and other
... subjects; for there were some of
your disciples in company with us;
2 For when we were retired
into the Sallustian gardens,
through which they were also
passing, and would have gone
another way, by our persuasion
they joined company with us.
3 Idesireyouto believe, that we
much wish for your conversation :
4. We were much delighted
with your book of many Epistles,
which you have wrote to some
cities and chief towns of pro
vinces, and contain wonderful in
structions for moral conduct :
5 Such sentiments, as I suppose
you were not the author of, but
only the instrument of conveying,
though sometimes both the author
and the instrument.
6 For such is the sublimity of
those doctrines, and their gran
peur, that I suppose the age of a
man is scarce sufficient to be in
structed and perfected in the
knowledge of them. I wish your
welfare, my brother. Farewell.
CELAP. II.
PAUL to SENECA Greeting.
RECEIVED your letter yes
terday with pleasure: to which
I could immediately have wrote
, Dr. Cave, Spanheim, and others, contend
an answer, had the young man
been at home, whom I intended
to have sent to you :
2 For you know when, and by
whom, at what seasons, and to
whom I must deliver every thing
which I send.
3 I desire therefore you would
not charge me with negligence, if
I wait for a proper person.
4 I reckon myself very happy
in having thejudgment ofso valu
able a person, that you are de
lighted with my Epistles:
5 For you would not be esteem
ed a censor, a philosopher, or be
the tutor of so great a prince, and
a master of every thing, if you
were not sincere. I wish you a
lasting prosperity.
CHAP. III.
ANNAEUs SENECA to PAUL Greeting.
HAVE completed some vo
lumes, and divided them into
their proper parts.
2 I am determined to read
them to Caesar, and if any favour
able opportunity happens, you
also shall be present, when they
are read;
3 But if that cannot be, I will
appoint and give you notice of a
day, when we will together read
over the performance.
4 I had determined, if I could
with safety, first to have your opi
nion of it, before I published it to
Caesar, that you might be con
vinced of my affection to you.
Farewell, dearest Paul.
95
PAUL TO SENECA.
CHAP. IV.
PAUL to SENECA Greeting.
S often as I read your letters,
I imagine you present with
me; nor indeed do I think any
other, than that you are always
with us.
2. As soon therefore as you be
gin to come, we shall presently
see each other. I wish you all
prosperity.
CHAP. W.
ANNANUs SENECA to PAUL Greeting.
E are very much concerned
at your too long absence
from us.
2 What is it, or what affairs are
they, which obstruct your coming?
3 If you fear the anger of
Caesar, because you have aban
doned your former religion, and
made proselytes also of others,
you have this to plead, that your
acting thus proceeded not from in
constancy,butjudgment. Farewell.
CHAP. VI.
PAUL to SENECA and LUCILIUs
Greeting.
ONERNING those things,
about which ye wrote to me
it is not proper for me to mention
anything in writing with pen and
ink: the one of which leaves
marks, and the other evidently
declares things.
2 Especially since I know that
there are near you, as well as me,
those who will understand my
meaning.
3 Deference is to be paid to all
men, and so much the more, as
they are more likely to take occa
sions of quarrelling.
4 And if we shew a submissive
temper, we shall overcome effec
tually in all points, if so be they
are, who are capable of seeing and
acknowledging themselves to have
beenin the wrong. Farewell.
CHAP. VII.
ANNA.Us SENECA to PAUL Greeting.
PROFESS myself extremely
pleased with the reading your
letters to the Galatians, Corin
thians, and people of Achaia.
2 For the Holy Ghost has in
them by you delivered those senti
ments which are very lofty, sub
lime, deserving of all respect, and
beyond your own invention.
3 I could wish therefore, that
when you are writing things so
extraordinary, there might not be
wanting an elegancy of speech
agreeable to their majesty.
4 And I must own, my bro
ther, that I may not at once dis
honestly conceal anything from
you, and be unfaithful to my own
conscience, that the emperor is
extremely pleased with the senti
ments of your Epistles;
5 For when he heard the be
ginning of them read, he declared,
That he was surprised to find such
notions in a person, who had not
had a regular education.
6 To which I replied, That the
Gods sometimes made use of mean
(innocent) persons to speak by,
and gave him an instance of this
in a mean countryman, named
Watienus, who, when he was in
the country of Reate, had two
men appeared to him, called Cas
tor and Pollux, and received a re
velation from the gods. Farewell.
CHAP. VIII.
PAUL to SENECA Greeting.
LTHOUGH I know the em
peror is both an admirer
and favourer of our (religion), yet
give me leave to advise you against
your suffering any injury, (by
shewing favour to us.)
2 I think indeed you ventured
upon a very dangerous attempt,
when you would declare (to the
96
PAUL AND SENECA.
amperor) that which is so very
contrary to his religion, and way
of worship ; seeing he is a wor
shipper of the heathen gods.
3 I know not what you parti
cularly had in view, when you
told him of this ; but I suppose
you did it out of too great respect
for me.
4 But I desire that for the fu
ture you would not do so; for you
had need be careful, lest by shew
ing your affection for me, you
should offend your master:
5 His anger indeed will do us
110 harm, if he continue a heathen ;
nor will his not being angry be of
any service to us:
6 And if the empress act wor
thy of her character, she will not
be angry; but if she acts as a wo
man, she will be affronted. Fare
well.
CHAP. IX.
ANNA.Us SENECA to PAUL Greeting.
KNOW that my letter, where
in I acquainted you, that I
had read to the Emperor your
Epistles, does not so much affect
you as the nature of the things
(contained in them),
2. Which do so powerfully di
vert men's minds from their for
mer manners and practices, that
I have always been surprised, and
have been fully convinced of it by
many arguments heretofore.
3 Let us therefore begin afresh ;
and if any thing heretofore has
been imprudently acted, do you
forgive.
4 I have sent you a book de
copia verborum. Farewell, dearest
Paul.
CHAP. X.
PAUL to SENECA Greeting.
S often as I write to you,
and place my name before
yours, I do a thing both disagree
able to myself, and contrary to our
religion :
2 For I ought, as I have often
declared, to become all things to
all men, and to have that regard
to your quality, which the Roman
law has honoured all senators with;
namely, to put my name last in
the (inscription of the) Epistle,
that I may not at length with un
easiness and shame be obliged to
do that which it was always my
inclination to do. Farewell, most
respected master. Dated the fifth
of the calends of July, in the
fourth consulship of Nero, and
Messala.
CHAP. XI.
ANNAEUs SENECA to PAUL Greeting.
LL happiness to you, my
dearest Paul.
2 If a person so great,and every
way agreeable as you are, be
come not only a common, but
a most intimate friend to me,
how happy will be the case of
Seneca
3 You therefore, who are so
eminent, and so far exalted above
all, even the greatest, do not
think yourself unfit to be first
named in the inscription of an
Epistle;
4 Lest I should suspect you
intend not so much to try me,
as to banter me; for you know
yourself to be a Roman citi
Zen.
5 And I could wish to be in
that circumstance or station which
you are, and that you were in
the same that I am. Farewell,
dearest Paul. Dated the xth
of the calends of April, in the
consulship of Aprianus and Ca
pito.
13 97
PAUL AND SENECA.
CHAP. XII.
ANNAEUs SENECA to PAUL Greeting.
LL happiness to you, my
- dearest Paul. Do you not
suppose I am extremely concerned
and grieved that your innocence
should bring you into suffer
ings?
2 And that all the people should
suppose you (Christians) so cri
minal, and imagine all the misfor
tunes that happen to the city, to
be caused by you?
3 But let us bear the charge
with a patient temper, appealing
(for our innocence) to the court
(above), which is the only one our
hard fortune will allow us to ad
dress to, till at length our misfor
tunes shall end in unalterable hap
piness.
4 Former ages have produced
(tyrants) Alexander the son of
Philip, and Dionysius; ours also
has produced Caius Caesar; whose
inclinations were their only
laws.
5 As to the frequent burnings
of the city of Rome, the cause is
manifest; and if a person in my
mean circumstances might be al
lowed to speak, and one might de
clare these dark things without
danger, every one should see the
whole of the matter.
6 The Christians and Jews are
indeed commonly punished for the
crime of burning the city; but that
impious miscreant, who delights in
murders and butcheries, and dis
guises his villanies with lies, is ap
pointed to, or reserved till, his
proper time.
7 And as the life of every ex
cellent person is now sacrificed
instead of that one person (who
is the author of the mischief), so
this one shall be sacrificed for
many, and he shall be devoted
to be burnt with fire instead of
all.
8 One hundred and thirty-two
houses, and four whole squares
(or islands) were burnt down in
six days : the seventh put an end
to the burning. I wish you all
happiness.
9 Dated the fifth of the calends
of April, in the consulship of Fri
gius and Bassus.
CHAP. XIII.
ANNAPUs SENECA to PAUL Greeting.
LL happiness to you, my
dearest Paul.
2 You have wrote many vo
lumes in an allegorical and mysti
cal style, and therefore such mighty
matters and business being com
mitted to you, require not to be
set off with any rhetorical flourishes
of speech, but only with some pro
per elegance.
3 I remember you often say,
that many by affecting such a style
do injury to their subjects, and
lose the force of the matters they
treat of.
4 But in this I desire you to
regard me, namely, to have respect
to true Latin, and to choose just
words, that so you may the better
manage the noble trust which is
reposed in you.
5 Farewell. Dated vth of the
names of July, Leo and Savinus
consuls.
CHAP. XIV.
PAUL to SENECA Greeting.
OUR serious consideration
requited with these disco
veries, which the Divine Being
has granted but to few.
2 I am thereby assured that I
98
PAUL AND THECLA.
sow the most strong seed in a fer
tile soil, not anything material,
which is subject to corruption, but
the durable word of God, which
shall increase and bring forth fruit
to eternity.
3 That which by your wisdom
you have attained to, shall abide
without decay for ever.
4 Believe that you ought to
avoid the superstitions of Jews and
Gentiles.
5 The things which you have
in some measure arrived to, pru
dently make known to the em
peror, his family, and to faithful
friends;
6 And though your sentiments
will seem disagreeable, and not
be comprehended by them, see
ing most of them will not re
gard your discourses, yet the
Word of God once infused into
them, will at length make them
become new men, aspiring towards
God.
7 Farewell Seneca, who artmost
dear to us. Dated on the Calends
of August, in the consulship of
Leo and Savinus.
–0-
The ACTS of PAUL and THECLA.
[Tertullian says that this piece was forged by a Presbyter of Asia, who being
convicted, “confessed that he did it out of respect of Paul,” and Pope
Gelasius, in his Decree against apocryphal books, inserted it among
them. Notwithstanding this, a large part of the history was credited
and looked upon as genuine among the primitive Christians. Cyprian,
Eusebius, Epiphanius, Austin, Gregory, Nazianzen, Chrysostom, and
Severus Sulpitius, who all lived within the fourth century, mention
Thecla, or refer to her history. Basil of Seleucia wrote her acts,
sufferings, and victories, in verse; and Euagrius Scholasticus, an
ecclesiastical historian, about 590, relates that “after the Emperor
Zeno had abdicated his empire, and Basilik had taken possession of it,
he had a vision of the holy and excellent martyr Thecla, who promised
him the restoration of his empire; for § when it was brought
about, he erected and dedicated a most noble and sumptuous temple
tothis famour martyr Thecla, at Seleucia,a city of Isauria, and bestowed
upon it very noble endowments, which (says the author) are preserved
even till this day.” Hist. Eccl. lib. 3 cap. 8.-Cardinal Baronius,
Locrinus, Archbishop Wake, and others; and also the learned Grabe,
who edited the Septuagint,andrevived the Acts of Pauland Thecla, con
sider them as having been written in the Apostolic age; as containin
nothing superstitious, or disagreeing from the opinions and belief º
those times; and, in short, as a genuine and authentic history. Again,
it is said, that this is not the original book of the early christians; but
however that may be, it is published from the Greek MS. in the
Bodleian Library at Oxford, which Dr. Mills copied and transmitted
to Dr. Grabe.]
The Martyrdom of the holy and
glorious first Martyr and Apos
tle Thecla.
CHAP. I.
1 Demas and Hermogenes become Paul's
companions. 4 Paul visits Onesipho
rus, 8 Invited by Demas and Her
mogenes. 11 Preaches to the house
hold of Onesiphorus. 12 His sermon.
HEN Paul went up to Ico
nium, after his flight from
Antioch, Demas, and Hermogenes
became his companions, who were
then full of hypocrisy.
2. But Paul looking only at the
goodness of God, did them no
harm, but loved them greatly.
3. Accordingly he endeavoured
99
Paul's companions
to make agreeable to them, all the
oracles and doctrines of Christ, and
the design of the Gospel of God's
well-beloved son, instructing them
in the knowledge of Christ, as it
was revealed to him.
4 " And a certain man named
Onesiphorus, hearingthatPaulwas
come to Iconium, wentout speedily
to meet him, together with his wife
Lectra, and his sons Simmia and
Zeno, to invite him to their
house.
5 For Titus had given them a
description of Paul's personage,
they as yet not knowing him in
person, but only being acquainted
with his character.
6 They went in the king's high
way to Lystra, and stood there
waiting for him, comparing all who
passed by, with that description
which Titus had given them.
7. At length they saw a man
coming (namely Paul), of a low
stature, bald (or shaved) on the
head, crooked thighs, handsome
legs, hollow-eyed; had a crooked
nose; full of grace; for some
times he appeared as a man, some
times he had the countenance of
an angel. And Paul saw Onesi
phorus, and was glad.
8 || And Onesiphorus said:
Hail, thou servant of the blessed
God. Paul replied, The grace
of God be with thee and thy fa
mily.
9 But Demas and Hermogenes
were moved with envy, and, under
a shew of great religion, Demas
said, And are not we also servants
of the blessed God? Why didst
thou not salute us?
10 Onesiphorusreplied, Because
I have not perceived in you the
fruits of righteousness; neverthe
less, if ye are of that sort, ye shall
be welcome to my house also.
PAUL AND THECLA. and preachings.
11 Then Paul went into the
house of Onesiphorus, and there
was great joy among the family on
that account : and they employed
themselves in prayer, breaking of
bread, and hearing Paul preach
the word of God concerning tem
perance and the resurrection, in
the following manner:
12 "I Blessed are the pure in
heart; for they shall see God.
13 Blessed are they who keep
their flesh undefiled (or pure);
for they shall be the temple of
God.
14 Blessed are the temperate
(or chaste); for God will reveal
himself to them.
15 "I Blessed are they who
abandon their secular enjoy
ments; for they shall be accept
ed of God.
16 Blessed are they who have
wives, as though they had them
not; for they shall be made angels
of God.
17 Blessed are they who trem
ble at the word of God; for they
shall be comforted.
18 Blessed are they who keep
their baptism pure; for they shall
find peace with the Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost.
19 || Blessed are they who pur
sue the wisdom (or doctrine) of
Jesus Christ; for they shall be
called the sons of the Most High.
20 Blessed are they who ob
serve the instructions of Jesus
Christ; for they shall dwell in
eternal light.
21 Blessed are they, who for
the love of Christ abandon the
glories of the world, for they shall
judge angels, and be placed at
the right hand of Christ, and shall
not suffer the bitterness of the last
judgment.
22 || Blessed are the bodies and
100
Thecta admires PAUL AND
souls of virgins; for they are ac
ceptable to God, and shall not lose
the reward of their virginity; for
the word of their (heavenly) Fa
ther shall prove effectual to their
salvation in the day of his Son,
and they shall enjoy rest for ever
inOre.
CHAP. II.
1 Thecla $istens anaciously to Paul's
preaching. 5 Thamyris, her admirer,
concerts with Theoclia her mother to
14 Demas
Paul to
dissuade her, 12 in vain.
and Hermogenes vilify
Thamyris.
HILE Paul was preach
ing this sermon in the
church which was in the house of
Onesiphorus, a certain virgin
named Thecla (whose mother's
name was Theoclia, and who was
betrothed to a man named Tha
myris) sat at a certain window in
her house.
2 From whence, by the advant
age of a window in the house
where Paul was, she both night
and day heard Paul's sermons
concerning God, concerning cha
rity, concerning faith in Christ,
and concerning prayer;
3 Nor would she depart from
the window, till with exceeding
joy she was subdued to the doc
trines of faith.
4 At length, when she saw
many women and virgins going in
to Paul, she earnestly desired that
she might be thought worthy to
appear in his presence, and hear
the word of Christ ; for she had
not yet seen Paul's person, but
only heard his sermons, and that
alone.
5 *|| But when she would not
be prevailed upon to depart from
the window, her mother sent to
Thamyris, who came with the
greatest pleasure, as hoping now
THECLA. Paul's preaching.
to marry her. Accordingly he
said to Theoclia, Where is my
Thecla?
6 Theoclia replied, Thamyris,
I have something very strange to
tell you; for Thecla, for the space
of three days, will not move from
the window, not so much as to eat
or drink, but is so intent in hear
ing the artful and delusive dis
courses of a certain foreigner, that
I perfectly admire, Thamyris, that
a young women of her known
modesty, will suffer herself to be
so prevailed upon.
7 For that man has disturbed
the whole city of Iconium, and
even your Thecla, among others.
All the women and young men
flock to him to receive his doc
trine ; who, besides all the rest,
tells them that there is but one
God, who alone is to be worship
ped, and that we ought to live in
chastity.
8 * Notwithstanding this, my
daughter Thecla, like a spider's
web fastened to the window, is
captivated by the discourses of
Paul, and attends upon them with
prodigious eagerness, and vast de
light; and thus, by attending on
what he says, the young woman
is seduced. Now then do you go,
and speak to her, for she is be
trothed to you.
9 Accordingly Thamyris went,
and having saluted her, and tak
ing care not to surprise her, he
said, Thecla, my spouse, why sit
test thou in this melancholy pos
ture ? What strange impressions
are made upon thee! Turn to
Thamyris, and blush.
10 Her mother also spake to
her after the same manner, and
said, Child, why dost thou sit so
melancholy, and, like one asto
nished, makest no reply
101
Demas and Æermogenes PAUL AND THECLA.
11 Then they wept exceeding
ly, Thamyris, that he had lost
his spouse ; Theoclia, that she had
lost her daughter; and the maids,
that they had lost their mistress;
and there was an universal mourn
ing in the family.
12 But all these things made
no impression upon Thecla, so as
to incline her so much as to turn
to them, and take notice of them ;
for she still regarded the dis
courses of Paul.
13 Then Thamyris ran forth
into the street to observe who
they were that went into Paul,
and came out from him ; and
he saw two men engaged in a
very warm dispute, and said to
them ;
14 "I Sirs, what business have
you here? and who is that man
within, belonging to you, who
deludes the minds of men, both
young men and virgins, per
suading them, that they ought
not to marry, but continue as
they are
15 I promise to give you a con
siderable sum, if ye will give
me a just account of him ; for I
am the chief person of this
city.
16 Demas and Hermogenes re
plied, We cannot so exactly tell
who he is ; but this we know, that
he deprives young men of their
(intended) wives, and virgins of
their (intended) husbands, by
teaching, There can be no future
resurrection, unless ye continue
in chastity, and do not defile your
flesh.
CHAP. III.
1 They betray Paul. 7 Thamyris arrests
him with officers.
HEN said Thamyris, Come
along with me to my house,
betray Paul.
and refresh yourselves. So they
went to a very splendid entertain
ment, where there was wine in
abundance, and very rich provi
sion.
2 They were brought to a table
richly spread, and made to drink
plentifully by Thamyris, on ac
count of the love he had for The
cla and his desire to marry her.
3 Then Thamyris said, I desire
ye would inform me what the
doctrines of this Paul are, that I
may understand them ; for I am
under no small concern about
Thecla, seeing she so delights in
that stranger's discourses, that I
am in danger of losing my intend
ed wife.
4 *|| Then Demas and Hermo
genes answered both together,
and said, Let him be brought be
fore the governor Castellius, as
one who endeavours to persuade
the people into the new religion
of the Christians, and he, accord
ing to the order of Caesar, will put
him to death, by which means you
will obtain your wife ;
5 While we at the same time
will teach her, that the resurrec
tion which he speaks of is already
come, and consists in our having
children ; and that we then arose
again, when we came to the know.
ledge of God.
6 Thamyris having this ac
count from them, was filled with
hot resentment:
7 And rising early in the morn
ing he went to the house of One
siphorus, attended by the magis
trates, the jailor, and a great mul
titude of people with staves, and
said to Paul;
8 Thou has perverted the city
of Iconium, and among the rest,
Thecla, who is betrothed to me,
so that now she will not marry
102
Paul imprisoned
me. Thou shalt therefore go
with us to the governor Castel
lius.
9 And all the multitude cried
out, Away with this impostor
(magician), for hehasperverted the
minds of our wives, and all the
people hearken to him.
CHAP. IV.
1 Paul accused before the governor by
Thamyris. 5 Defends himself. 9 Is
committed to prison, 10 and visited by
Thecla.
HEN Thamyris standing be
fore the governor'sjudgment
seat, spake with a loud voice in the
following manner.
2 O governor, I know not
whence this man cometh; but he
is one who teaches that matri
mony is unlawful. Command him
therefore to declare before you for
what reason he publishes such
doctrines.
3 While he was saying thus,
Demas and Hermogenes (whisper
ed to Thamyris, and) said ; Say
that he is a Christian, and he will
presently be put to death.
4 But the governor was more
deliberate, and calling to Paul, he
said, Who art thou! What dost
thou teach They seem to lay
gross crimes to thy charge.
5 Paul then spake with a loud
voice, saying, As I am now called
to give an account, O governor, of
my doctrines, I desire your audi
ence.
6 That God, who is a God of
vengeance, and who stands in
need of nothing but the salvation
of his creatures, has sent me to
reclaim them from their wicked
ness and corruptions, from all
(sinful) pleasures, and from death;
and to persuade them to sin no
InOre.
PAUL AND THECLA. Thecla visits him.
7 On this account, God sent
his Son Jesus Christ, whom I
preach, and in whom I instruct
men to place their hopes, as that
person who only had such com
passion on the deluded world,
that it might not, O governor, be
condemned, but have faith, the
fear of God, the knowledge of
religion, and the love of truth.
8 So that if I only teach those
things which I have received by
revelation from God, where is my
crime !
9 When the governor heard
this, he ordered Paul to be bound,
and to be put in prison, till he
should be more at leisure to hear
him more fully.
10 But in the night, Thecla
taking off her ear-rings, gave them
to the turnkey of the prison, who
then opened the doors to her, and
let her in ;
11 And when she made a pro
sent of a silver looking-glass to
the jailor, was allowed to go into
the room were Paul was ; then
she sat down at his feet, and
heard from him the great things
of God.
12 And as she perceived Paul
not to be afraid of suffering, but
that by divine assistance he be
haved himself with courage, her
faith so far increased that she
kissed his chains.
CHAP. W.
1 Thecla sought and found by her rela
tions, 4 Brought with Paul before the
governor. 9 Ordered to be burnt, and
Paul to be whipt. 15 Thecla miracu
lously saved.
T length Thecla was missed,
and sought for by the family
and by Thamyris in every street,
as though she had been
103
Thecla miraculously
one of the porter's fellow servants
told them, that she had gone out
in the night-time.
2 Then they examined the por
ter, and he told them, that she was
gone to the prison to the strange
InaIl.
3 They went therefore accord
ing to his direction, and there
found her; and when they came
out, they got a mob together, and
went and told the governor all
that happened.
4. Upon which he ordered Paul
to be brought before his judgment
seat.
5 Thecla in the mean time lay
wallowing on the ground in the
prison, in that same place where
Paul had sat to teach her; upon
which the governor also ordered
her to be brought before his
judgment-seat; which summons
she received with joy, and
went.
6 When Paul was brought thi
ther, the mob with more vehemence
cried out, He is a magician, let him
die.
7 Nevertheless the governor
attended with pleasure upon Paul's
discourses of the holy works of
Christ ; and, after a council called,
he summoned Thecla, and said to
her, Why do you not, according
to the law of the Iconians, marry
Thamyris'
8 She stood still, with her eyes
fixed upon Paul ; and finding she
made no reply, Theoclia, her mo
ther cried out, saying, Let the un
just creature be burnt; let her be
burnt in the midst of the theatre,
for refusing Thamyris, that all
women may learn from her to
avoid such practices.
9 Then the governor was ex
ceedingly concerned, and ordered
PAUL AND THECLA. saved from burning.
Paul to be whipt out of the city,
and Thecla to be burnt.
10 So the governor arose, and
went immediately into the theatre;
and all the people went forth to
see the dismal sight.
11 But Thecla, just as a lamb
in the wilderness looks every way
to see his shepherd, looked around
for Paul;
12 And as she was looking
upon the multitude, she saw the
Lord Jesus in the likeness of Paul,
and said to herself, Paul is come
to see me in my distressed circum
stances. And she fixed her eyes
upon him ; but he instantly as
cended up to heaven, while she
looked on him.
13 Then the young men and
women brought wood and straw
for the burning of Thecla; who,
being brought naked to the stake,
extorted tears from the governor,
with surprise beholding the great
ness of her beauty.
14 And when they had placed
the wood in order, the people
commanded her to go upon it;
which she did, first making the
sign of the cross.
15 Then the people set fire to
the pile ; though the flame was ex
ceeding large, it did not touch her,
for God took compassion on her,
and caused a great eruption from
the earth beneath, and a cloud
from above to pour down great
quantities of rain and hail ;
16 Insomuch that by the rup.
ture of the earth, very many were
in great danger, and some were
killed, the fire was extinguished,
and Thecla perserved.
CHAP. WI.
1 Paul with Onesiphorus in a cave. 7
Thecla discovers Paul : 12 proffers to
104
Thecla visits Paul,
follow him: 13 he exhorts her not for
fear of fornication.
N the mean time Paul, toge
ther with Onesiphorus, his wife
and children, was keeping a fast
in a certain cave, which was in the
road from Iconium to Daphne.
2 And when they had fasted for
several days, the children said to
Paul, Father, we are hungry, and
have notwherewithal to buy bread;
for Onesiphorus had left all his
substance to follow Paul with his
family.
3 Then Paul, taking off his
coat, said to the boy, Go, child,
and buy bread, and bring it hither.
4 But while the boy was buying
the bread, he saw his neighbour
Thecla and was surprised, and said
to her, Thecla, where are you
going
5 She replied, I am in pursuit
of Paul, having been delivered
from the flames.
6 The boy then said, I will
bring you to him, for he is under
great concern on your account,
and has been in prayer and fast
ing these six days.
7 'ſ When Thecla came to the
cave, she found Paul upon his
knees praying and saying, O holy
Father, O Lord Jesus Christ, grant
that the fire may not touch
Thecla; but be her helper, for she
is thy servant.
8 Thecla then standing behind
him, cried out in the following
words: O sovereign Lord Creator
of heaven and earth, the Father
of thy beloved and holy Son, I
praise thee that thou hast pre
served me from the fire, to see
Paul again.
9 Paul then arose, and when he
saw her, said, O God, who search
est the heart, Father of my Lord
Jesus Christ, I praise thee that
thou hast answered my prayer.
10 T And there prevailed
among them in the cave an entire
PAUL AND THECLA. resists Alexander.
affection to each other; Paul,
Onesiphorus, and all that were
with them being filled with joy.
11 They had five loaves, some
herbs and water, and they solaced
each other in reflections upon the
holy works of Christ.
12 Then said Thecla to Paul.
If you be pleased with it, I will
follow you withersoever you go.
13. He replied to her, Persons
are now much given to fornica
tion, and you being handsome, I
am afraid lest you should meet
with greater temptation than the
former, and should not withstand,
but be overcome by it.
14 Thecla replied, Grant me
only the seal of Christ, and no
temptation shall affect me.
15 Paul answered, Thecla, wait
with patience, and you shall re
ceive the gift of Christ.
CHAP. VII.
1 Paul and Thecla go to Antioch. 2
Alexander, a magistrate, falls in love
with Thecla : 4 kisses her by force : 5
she resists him : 6 is carried before the
governor, and condemned to be thrown
to wild beasts.
HEN Paul sent back Onesi
phorus and his family to their
own home, and taking Thecla
along with him, went for Antioch;
2 And as soon as they came
into the city, a certain Syrian,
named Alexander, a magistrate
in the city, who had done many
considerable services for the city
during his magistracy, saw Thecla
and fell in love ".with her, and
endeavoured by many rich pre
sents to engage Paul in his interest.
3 But Paul told him, I know
not the woman of whom you speak,
nor does she belong to me.
4 But he being a person of great
power in Antioch, seized her in
the street and kissed her; which
Thecla would not bear, but look
ing about for Paul, cried out in a
1 A 105
PAUL AND
distressed loud tone, Force me
not, who am a stranger ; force me
not, who am a servant of God; I
am one of the principal persons of
Iconium, and was obliged to leave
that city because I would not be
Inarried to Thamyris.
5 Then she laid hold on Alex
ander, tore his coat, and took his
crown off his head, and made him
appear ridiculous before all the
people.
6 But Alexander, partly as he
loved her, and partly being asham
ed of what had been done, led her
to the governor, and upon her
confession of what she had done *
he condemned her to be thrown
among the beasts.
CHAP. VIII.
2 Thecla entertained by Trifina; 3
brought out to the wild beasts; a she
lion licks her feet. 5 Triſina upon a
vision of her deceased daughter adopts
Thecla, 11 who is tuken to the amphi
theatre again.
HICH when the people
saw, they said: The judg
ments passed in this city are un
just. But Thecla desired the fa
vour of the governor, that her
chastity might not be attacked,
but preserved till she should be
cast to the beasts.
2 The governor then inquired,
Who would entertain her; upon
which a certain very rich widow,
named Trifina, whose daughter
was lately dead, desired that she
might have the keeping of her ;
and she began to treat her in her
house as her own daughter.
3. At length a day came, when
the beasts were to be brought forth
to be seen ; and Thecla was
brought to the amphitheatre, and
put into a den in which was an
exceeding fierce she-lion, in the
and is thrown THECLA. to wild beaste
presence of a multitude of specta
tors.
4 Trifina, without any surprise,
accompanied Thecla, and the she
lion licked the feet of Thecla.
The title written which denotes
her crime, was, Sacrilege. Then
the woman cried out, O God, the
judgments of this city are un
righteous.
5. After the beasts had been
shewn, Trifina took Thecla home
with her, and they went to bed ;
and behold, the daughter of Tri.
fina, who was dead, appeared to
her mother, and said; Mother,
let the young woman, Thecla, be
reputed by you as your daughter
in my stead; and desire her that
she should pray for me, that I may
be translated to a state of happi
IneSS.
6 Upon which Trifina, with a
mournful air said, My daughter
Falconilla, has appeared to me,
and ordered me to receive you in
her room ; wherefore I desire,
Thecla, that you would pray for
my daughter, that she may be
translated into a state of happi
ness, and to life eternal.
7. When Thecla heard this, she
immediately prayed to the Lord,
and said : O Lord God of heaven
and earth, Jesus Christ, thou Son
of the Most High, grant that her
daughter Falconilla may live for
ever. Trifina hearing this groaned
again, and said: O unrighteous
judgments O unreasonable wick
edness that such a creature should
(again) be cast to the beasts
S "I On the morrow, at break
of day, Alexander came to Tri
fina's house, and said : The go
vernor and the people are waiting;
bring the criminal forth.
1 There being sounething wanting here in the old Greek MS. it is sup
plied out of the old Latin version, which is in the Bodleian Library, Cod. Digb.
39, rather than out of Simeon Metaphrastes, a writer of the eleventh century.
106
The beasts refusing
9 But Trifina ran in so violent
ly upon him, that he was affright
ed, and ran away. Trifina was one
of the royal family; and she thus
expressed her sorrow, and said;
Alas ! I have trouble in my house
on two accounts, and there is no
one who will relieve me, either
under the loss of my daughter, or
my being unable to save Thecla.
But now, O Lord God, be thou
the helper of Thecla thy servant.
10 While she was thus engaged,
the governor sent one of his own
officers to bring Thecla. Trifina
took her by the hand, and, going
with her, said: I went with Fal
conilla to her grave, and now
must go with Thecla to the beasts.
11 When "Thecla heard this,
she weeping prayed, and said : 0
Lord God, whom I have made my
confidence and refuge, reward
Trifina for her compassion to me,
and preserving my chastity.
12 Upon this there was a great
noise in the amphitheatre; the
beasts roared, and the people
cried out, Bring in the criminal.
13 But the women cried out,
and said: Let the whole city suf
fer for such crimes; and order all
of us, O governor, to the same
punishment. O unjust judgment
O cruel sight !
14 Others said, Let the whole
city be destroyed for this vile ac
tion. Kill us all, O governor. O
cruel sight ! O unrighteous judg
ment.
CHAP. IX.
1 Thecla thrown naked to the wild beasts;
2 they all refuse to attack her; 8
throws herself into a pit of water. 10
Other wild beasts refuse her. 11 Tied
to wild bulls. 13 Miraculously saved.
21 Released. 24 Entertained by Tri
£na.
HEN Thecla was taken out
of the hand of Trifina, strip
ped naked, had a girdle put on,
and thrown into the place ap
PAUL AND THECLA. to destroy Thecla.
pointed for fighting with the
beasts: and the lions and the bears
were let loose upon her.
2 But a she-lion, which was of
all the most fierce, ran to Thecla,
and fell down at her feet. Upon
which the multitude of women
shouted aloud.
3 Then a she-bear ran fiercely
towards her; but the she-lion met
the bear, and tore it in pieces.
4 Again, a he lion, who had
been wont to devour men, and
which belonged to Alexander, ran
towards her ; but the she-lion en
countered the he-lion, and they
killed each other.
5 Then the women were under
a greater concern, because the
she-lion, which had helped The
cla, was dead.
6 Afterwards they brought out
many other wild beasts; but
Thecla stood with her hands
stretched towards heaven, and
prayed; and when she had done
praying, she turned about, and
saw a pit of water, and said, Now
it is a proper time for me to be
baptised.
7 Accordingly she threw herself
into the water, and said, In thy
name, O my Lord Jesus Christ, I
am this last day baptized. The wo
men and the people seeing this,
cried out, and said, Do not throw
yourself into the water. And the
governor himself cried out, to
think that the fish (sea-calves)
were like to devour so much
beauty.
8 * Notwithstanding all this,
Thecla threw herself into the wa
ter, in the name of our Lord Je
sus Christ.
9 But the fish (sea-calves,)
when they saw the lighting and
fire, were killed, and swam dead
upon the surface of the water, and
a cloud of fire surrounded Thecla,
so that as the beasts could not
107
She is saved
come near her, so the people could
not see her nakedness.
10 Yet they turned other wild
beasts upon her; upon which they
made a very mournful outcry;
and some of them scattered spike
nard, others cassia, others amo
mus (a sort of spikenard, or the
herb of Jerusalem, or ladies-rose)
others ointment ; so that the
quantity of ointment was large,
in proportion to the number of
people; and uponthis all the beasts
lay as though they had been fast
asleep, and did not touch Thecla.
11 Whereupon Alexander said
to the Governor, I have some very
terrible bulls; let us bind her to
them. To which the governor,
with concern, replied, You may
do what you think fit.
12 Then they put a cord round
Thecla's waist, which bound also
her feet, and with it tied her to
the bulls, to whose privy-parts
they applied red-hot irons, that so
they being the more tormented,
Inight more violently drag Thecla
about, till they had killed her.
13 The bulls accordingly tore
about, making a most hideous
noise; but the flame which was
about Thecla, burnt off the cords
which were fastened to the mem
bers of the bulls, and she stood in
the middle of the stage, as un
concerned as if she had not been
bound.
14 But in the mean time Tri
fina, who sat upon one of the
benches, fainted away and died;
upon which the whole city was
under a very great concern.
15 And Alexander himself was
afraid, and desired the govenor,
saying: I intreat you, take com
passion on me and the city, and
release this woman, who has
fought with the beasts; lest both
you and I, and the whole city, be
destroyed;
PAUL AND THECLA. and released.
16 For if Caesar should have
any account of what has passed
now, he will certainly immediate
ly destroy the city, because Tri
fina, a person of royal extract, and
a relation of his, is dead upon her
Seat.
17 Upon this the governor call
ed Thecla from among the beasts
to him, and said to her, Who art
thou? and what are thy circum
stances, that not one of the beasts
will touch thee?
18 Thecla replied to him; I
am a servant of the living God;
and as to my state, I am a be
liever on Jesus Christ his Son, in
whom God is well pleased; and
for that reason none of the beasts
could touch me.
19 He alone is the way to eter
nal salvation, and the foundation
of eternal life. He is a refuge to
those who are in distress; asupport
to the afflicted, hope and defence
to those who are hopeless; and,
in a word, all those who do not be
lieve on him, shall not live, but
suffer eternal death.
20 " When the governor heard
these things, he ordered her
clothes to be brought, and said to
her, put on your clothes.
21 Thecla replied: May that
God who clothed me when I was
naked among the beasts, in the day
ofjudgment clothe your soul with
the robe of salvation. Then she
took her clothes, and put them
on ; and the governor immediately
published an order in these words;
I release to you Thecla the servant
of God.
22 Upon which the women
cried out together with a loud
voice, and with one accord gave
praise unto God, and said ; There
is but one God, who is the God of
Thecla; the one God who hath
delivered Thecla.
23 So loud were their voices
108
Thecla visits Paul
that the whole city seemed to be
shaken ; and Trifina herself heard
the glad tidings, and arose again,
and ran with the multitude to
meet Thecla; and embracing her,
said: Now I believe there shall
be a resurrection of the dead;
now I am persuaded that my
daughter is alive. Come therefore
home with me, my daughter
Thecla, and I will make over all
that I have to you.
24 So Thecla went with Triſina,
and was entertained there a few
days, teaching her the word of the
Lord, wherebymany young women
were converted ; and there was
great joy in the family of Trifina.
25 But Thecla longed to see
Paul, and inquired and sent every
where to find him ; and when at
length she was informed that he
was at Myra, in Lycia, she took
with her many young men and wo
men; and putting on a girdle, and
dressing herself in the habit of a
man, she went to him to Myra in
Lycia,and therefound Paul preach
ing the word of God; and she
stood by him among the throng.
CHAP. X.
1 Theclavisits Paul. 6 visits Onesiphorus.
8 visits her mother. 9 who repulses her
12 Is tempted by the devil. Works
miracles.
UT it was no small surprise
to Paul when he saw her and
the people with her; for he ima
gined some fresh trial was coming
upon them ;
2. Which when Thecla per
ceived, she said to him : I have
been baptized, O Paul; for he
who assists you in preaching, has
assisted me to baptize.
3 Then Paul took her, and led
her to the house of Hermes; and
Thecla related to Paul all that
had befallen her in Antioch, inso.
much that Paul exceedingly won
dered, and all who heard were con
IPAUL AND THECLA. and her mother,
firmed in the faith, and prayed
for Trifina's happiness.
4 Then Thecla arose, and said
to Paul, I am going to Iconium.
Paul replied to her : Go, and
teach the word of the Lord.
6 But Trifina had sent large
sums of money to Paul, and also
clothing by the hands of Thecla,
for the relief of the poor.
6 ‘'ſ So Thecla went to Iconium.
And when she came to the house
of Onesiphorus, she fell down upon
the floor where Paul had sat and
preached, and, mixing tears with
her prayers, she praised and glori
fied God in the following words:
7 O Lord the God of this
house, in which I was first enlight
ened by thee; O Jesus, son of the
living God, who wast my helper
before the governor, my helper in
the fire, and my helper among the
beasts ; thou alone art God for
ever and ever, Amen.
8 * Thecla now (on her return)
found Thamyris dead but her mo
ther living. So calling her mother,
she said to her; Theoclia, my mo
ther, is it possible for you to be
brought to a belief, that there is
but one Lord God, who dwells in
the heavens? If you desire great
riches, God will give them to you
by me; if you want your daughter
again, here I am.
9 These and many other things
she represented to her mother, (en
deavouring) to persuade her (to
her own opinion). But her mother
Theoclia gave no credit to the
things which were said by the
martyr Thecla.
10 So thatThecla perceiving she
discoursed to no purpose, signing
her whole body with the sign (of
the cross), left the house and went
to Daphine; and when she came
there, she went to the cave,
where she had found Paul with
Onesiphorus, and fell down upon
109
Works miracles.
on the ground; and wept before
God.
11 When she departed thence,
she went to Seleucia, and enlight
ened many in the knowledge of
Christ.
12 ºſ And a bright cloud con
ducted her in her journey.
13 And after she had arrived
at Seleucia she went to a place
out of the city, about the distance
of a furlong, being afraid of the
inhabitants, because they were
worshippers of idols.
14 And she was led (by the
cloud) into a mountain called Ca
lamon, or Rodeon. There she
abode many years, and underwent
a great many grievous temptations
of the devil, which she bore in a
becoming manner, by the assist
ance which she had from Christ.
15 At length certain gentlewo
men hearing of the virgin Thecla,
went to her, and were instructed
by her in the oracles of God, and
many of them abandoned this
world, and led a monastic life
with her.
16 Hereby a good report was
spread everywhere of Thecla, and
she wrought several (miraculous)
cures, so that all the city and ad
jacent countries brought their sick
to that mountain, and before they
came as far as the door of the cave,
they were instantly cured of what
soever distemper they had.
17 The unclean spirits were
cast out, making a noise ; all re
ceived their sick made whole, and
glorified God, who had bestowed
such power on the virgin Thecla;
18 Insomuch that the physi
cians of Seleucia were now of no
more account, and lost all the pro
fit of their trade, because no one
regarded them ; upon which they
were filled with envy, and began
to contrive what methods to take
with this servant of Christ.
PAUL AND THECLA.
-
Escapes defilement.
CHAP. XI.
1 Is attempted to be ravished, 12 escape,
by a rock opening, 17 and closing
miraculously.
Tº: devil then suggested bad
advice to their minds; and
being on a certain day met to
gether to consult, they reasoned
among each other thus : The vir.
gin is a priestess of the great god
dess Diana, and whatsoever she
requests from her, is granted, be
cause she is a virgin, and so is
beloved by all the gods.
2 Now then let us procure some
rakish fellows, and after we have
made them sufficiently drunk, and
given them a good sum of money,
let us order them to go and de
bauch this virgin, promising them,
if they do it, a larger reward.
3 (For they thus concluded
among themselves, that if they be
able to debauch her, the gods will
no more regard her, nor Diana
cure the sick for her.)
4 They proceeded according to
this resolution, and the fellows
went to the mountain, and as fierce
as lions to the cave, knocking at
the door.
5 The holy martyr Thecla, re
lying upon the God in whom she
believed, opened the door,although
she was before apprized of their
design, and said to them, Young
men, what is your business?
6 They replied, Is there any
one within, whose name is Thecla
She answered, What would you
have with her? They said, We
have a mind to lie with her.
7 The blessed Thecla answered:
Though I am a mean old woman,
I am the servant of my Lord Jesus
Christ; and though you have a
vile design against me, ye shall
not be able to accomplish it. They
replied: It is impossible but we
must be able to do with you what
we have a mind. -
110
Antroductory Notice
8 And while they were saying
this, they laid hold on her by main
force, and would have ravished
her. Then she with the (greatest)
mildness said to them : Young
men have patience, and see the
glory of the Lord.
9 And while they held her, she
looked up to heaven and said; O
God most reverend, to whom none
can be likened; who makest thy
self glorious over thine enemies;
who didst deliver me from the
fire, and didst not give me up to
Thamyris, didst not give me up
to Alexander; who deliveredst
me from the wild beasts; who
didst preserve me in the deep
waters; who hast every where
been my helper, and hast glorified
thy name in me;
10 Now also deliver me from
the hands of these wicked and un
reasonable men, nor suffer them to
debauch my chastity which I have
hitherto preserved for thy honour;
for I love thee and, long for thee,
and worship thee, O Father, Son,
and Holy Ghost, for evermore.
Amen.
11 Then came a voice from
heaven, saying, Fear not, Thecla,
my faithful servant, for I am with
thee. Look and see the place
which is opened for thee: there thy
eternal abode shall be; there thou
shalt receive the beatific vision.
12 The blessed Thecla observ
ing, saw the rock opened to as
CLEMENT. to the Epistle.
large a degree as that a man
might enter in ; she did as she was
commanded, bravely fled from the
vile crew, and went into the rock,
which instantly so closed, that
there was not any crack visible
where it had opened.
13 The men stood perfectly as
tonished at so prodigious a mira
cle, and had no power to detain
the servant of God; but only,
catching hold of her veil, or hood
they tore off a piece of it;
14 And even that was by the
permission of God, for the con
firmation of theirfaith who should,
come to see this venerable place,
and to convey blessings to those
in succeeding ages, who should
believe on our Lord Jesus Christ
from a pure heart.
15 Thus suffered that first mar
tyr and apostle of God, and virgin,
Thecla ; who came from Iconium
at eighteen years of age; after
wards, partly in journeys and
travels, and partly in a monastic
life in the cave, she lived seventy
two years; so that she was ninety
years old when the Lord translated
her.
16 Thus ends her life.
17 The day which is kept
sacred to her memory, is the
twenty-fourth of September, to the
glory of the Father, and the Son,
and the Holy Ghost, now and for
evermore. Amen.
—º-
The FIRST EPISTLE of CLEMENT to the CORINTHILANS.
Cleinent was a disciple of Peter, and afterwards Bishop of Rome. Clemens Alexandrinus calls him an apostle
Jerome says he was an apostolical man, and Rufinus that he was almost an apostle. Eusebius calls this the
wonderful Epistle of St. Clement, and says that it was publicly read in the assemblies of the primitive
church. It is included in one of the ancient collections of the Canon Scripture. Its genuineness has been
much questioned, particularly by Photius, patriarch of Constantinople in the ninth century, who objects that
Clements speaks of worlds beyond the ocean; that he has not written worthily of the divinity of Christ;
and that to prove the possibility of a future resurrection, he introduces the fabulous story of the phoenix's
revival from its own ashes. To the latter objection, Archbishop Wake replies that the generality of the
ancient Fathers have made use of the same instance in proof of the same point; and asks, if St. Clement
really believed that there was such a bird, and that it did revive out of the cinders of the body after burning,
where was the great harm either in giving credit to such a wonder, or, believing it, to make such a use as he
here does of it?–The present is the Archbishop's translation from the ancient Greek copy of the Epistle, which
is at the end of the celebrated Alexandrine M.S. of the Septuagint and New Testament, presented by C
tº: of Alexandria, to King Charles the First, now in the British Museum. The Archbishop, in prefacing
translation, esteems it a great blessing that this “Epistle" was at last so happily found out for the increase
and confirmation both of our faith and our charity.
Commends the Corinthians
CHAP. I.
He commends them for their excellent
order and piety in Christ, before their
schism broke out.
HE Church of God which "is
at Rome, to the Church of
God which is at Corinth, * elect,
sanctified "by the will of God,
through Jesus Christ our Lord:
grace and peace from the Almighty
God, by Jesus Christ be multi
plied unto you."
2 I Brethren, the "sudden and
unexpected dangers and calamities
that have fallen upon us, have, we
fear, made us the more slow in
our consideration of those things
which you inquired of us:
3 * As also of that wicked and
detestable sedition, so 7 unbecom
ing the elect of God, which a few
heady and self-willed men have
fomented to such a degree of
madness, that your venerable and
renowned name, so worthy of all
men to be beloved, is greatly blas
phemed thereby.
4 For who that has * ever been
among you has not experimented
the firmness of your faith," and
its fruitfulness in all good works ;
and admired the temper and
moderation of your religion in
Christ; and published abroad the
magnificence of your hospitality;
and thought you happy in your
perfect and certain knowledge of
the Gospel?
5 For ye did all things without
respect of persons, and walked
"according to the laws of God;
being subject to those who had the
rule over you, and giving the ho
1 Sojourneth.
I. CLEMENT.
* Called. See Hammond on Matt. xx.
for their piety.
nour that was fitting to the * aged
among you.
6 Ye commanded the young
men to think those things that
were modest and grave.
7 The women ye exhorted to
do all things with an unblameable,
and seemly, and pure conscience;
loving their own husbands, as was
fitting : and that keeping them
selves within the 12 bounds of a
due obedience, they should 18 or
der their houses gravely, with all
14 discretion.
8 15 Ye were all of you humable
minded, not 10 boasting of any
thing : desiring rather to be sub
ject than to govern ; to 17 give
than to receive ; being * content
with the portion God hath dis
pensed to you :
9 And hearkening diligently to
his word, ye * were enlarged in
your bowels, having his * suffer
ings always before your eyes.
10 Thus a firm, and * blessed
and profitable peace was given un
to you ; and an unsatiable desire
of doing good ; and a plentiful
effusion of the Holy Ghost was
upon all of you.
11 And being full of * good
designs, ye did with * great readi
ness of mind, and with a religious
confidence stretch forth your hands
to God Almighty; beseeching him
to be merciful unto you, if in any
thing he had unwillingly sinned
against him.
12 Ye contended day and night
for the whole brotherhood ; that
* with compassion and a good
conscience, the number of his elect
might be saved.
* Gr. in. “See Bp.
Pearson's note on this place. Ed. Colomesii. p. 2. ‘Ibid. "And, "Gr. Strange
to. * Gr. Lodged as a stranger. * Adorned with all manner of virtues. "In.
* Presbyters. 1* Canon, rule. 13 Themselves do their own business. Wid. Not.
Junii in loc. *Temperance, sobriety. 151 Pet. v. 5. * Proud. "Acts, xx.
35. 18 1. Tim. vi. 8, 19 Embraced it in your very bowels. *traðmuara. See
Dr. Grabe's Addit. to Bp. Bull's Def fid. Nic. p. 60. 61. * Gr. Yurapa.
* Holy counsel, or purpose,or will.” Gr. good. * With mercy andconscience.
~
How the divisions
i8 Ye were sincere, and with
out offence towards each other;
not mindful of injuries; all sedi
tion and schism was an abomina
tion unto you.
14 Ye bewailed every one his
neighbours' sins, esteeming their
defects your own.
15 Ye 1 were kind one to ano
ther without grudging; being
ready to every good work. And
being adorned with a conversa
tion altogether virtuous and reli
gious, ye did all things in the fear
of God; whose * commandments
were written upon the tables of
your heart.
CHAP. II.
How their divisions began.
LL honour and enlargement
was given unto you; and so
was fulfilled that which is written,
* my beloved did eat and drink,
he was enlarged and waxed fat,
and he kicked.
2. From hence came emulation,
and envy, and strife, and sedition ;
persecution and * disorder, war
and captivity.
3 So they who were of no
renown, lifted up themselves
against the honourable; those of
no reputation, against those who
were in respect; the foolish
against the wise; the young men
against the aged.
4 Therefore righteousness and
peace are departed from you,
because every one hath forsaken
the fear of God ; and is grown
blind in his faith ; nor walketh
by the rule of God's command
ments nor liveth as is fitting in
Christ :
5 But every one * follows his
* Ye were without repentance in all well-doing. Titus, iii. 1.
* Confusion, tumults, &c.
vii. 3. * Deut. xxxii. 15.
*Gen. iv. 3. &c. "This is according to the LXX.
* Gen. xxviii.
*Envy.
I. CLEMENT. in the church began.
own wicked lusts : having taken
up an unjust and wicked envy, by
which death first entered into the
world.
CHAP. III.
Envy and emulation the original of all
strife and disorder. Examples of the
mischiefs they have occasioned.
OR thus it is written, " And in
process of time it came to
pass, that Cain brought of the fruit
of the ground an offering unto the
Lord. And Abel, he also brought
of the firstlings of his flock, and of
the fat thereof:
2 And the Lord had respect
unto Abel, and to his offering.
But unto Cain and unto his offen
ing he had not respect. And
Cain was very sorrowful, and his
countenance fell.
3 And the Lord said unto Cain,
Why art thou sorrowful? And
why is thy countenance fallen
7 If thou shalt offer aright, but
not divide aright, hast thou not
sinned? Hold thy peace : unto
thee shall be his 8 desire, and
thou shalt rule over him.
4 And Cain said unto Abel his
brother, Let us go down into the
field. And it came to pass, as
they were in the field, that Cain
rose up against Abel his brother,
and slew him.
5 Ye see, brethren, how envy
and emulation wrought ° the
death of a brother. For "this
our father 11 Jacob fled from the
face of his brother Esau.
6 It was this that caused "Jo
seph to be persecuted even unto
death, and to come into bondage.
Envy forced 18 Moses to flee from
the face of Pharaoh king of Egypt,
* Fratricide.
ii. 15.
2 Prov.
* Walketh after.
** Amoorpoqm, conversion.
* Gen. xxxvii. * Exodus,
15 113
They were caused by
when he heard his own country
man ask him, ' Who made thee
a Judge, and a ruler over us?
Wilt thou kill me as thou didst
the Egyptian yesterday !
7 Through envy Aaron and
Miriam were * shut out of the
camp, from the rest of the congre
gation seven days.
8 * Emulation * sent Dathan
and Abiram quick into the * grave
because they raised up a sedition
against Moses the servant of God.
9 For this David " was not only
hated of strangers, but was perse
cuted even by Saul the king of
Israel.
10 But 7 not to insist upon an
tient examples, let us come to
those 8 worthies that have been
nearest to us; and take the brave
examples of our own age.
11 Through zeal and envy,
* the most faithful and righteous
"pillars of the church have been
persecuted even to the most griev
ous deaths.
12 Let us set before our eyes
the holy Apostles; Peter by un
just envy underwent not one or
two, but many "sufferings; ”till
at last being martyred, he went to
the place of glory that was due
unto him.
13 18For the same cause did
Paul in like manner receive the
reward of his patience. Seven
times 14 he was in bonds; he was
whipped, was stoned; he preached
both in the East and in the West;
* leaving behind him the glorious
report of his faith:
1 Exod. ii. 14.
* Hades.
I. CLEMENT.
*Made to lodge out.
* Had, or underwent the hatred, not only, &c.
envy and emulation,
14 And so having taught the
whole world righteousness, and
for that end travelled even to the
utmost bounds of the West ; he
at last suffered martyrdom * by
the command of the governors,
15 And departed out of the
world, and went unto his holy
place; being become a most emi
nent pattern of patience unto all
ages.
16 To these ºf Holy Apostles
were joined a very great number
of others, who having through
envy undergone in like manner
many pains and torments, have
* left a glorious example to us.
17 For 19 this not only men but
women have been persecuted:
*9 and having suffered very grier
ous and * cruel punishments,
have finished the course of their
faith with firmness; and though
weak in body, yet received a
glorious reward.
18 23 This has alienated the
minds even of women from their
husbands; and changed what was
once said by our father Adam ;
* This is now bone of my bone,
and flesh of my flesh.
19 In a word, envy and strife,
have overturned 24 whole cities,
and rooted out great nations from
off the earth.
CHAP. IV.
1 He exhorts them to live by the rules,
and repent of their divisions, and they
shall be forgiven.
HESE things, beloved, we
*write unto you, not only
*Num, xii. 14, 15. "Brought.
7 To cease from.
*Combatants, wrestlers.” Thefaithful andmostrighteous.” Good.” Labours,
*And so.” By envy.” Having borne seven times bonds, &c. * He received
the, &c. * Wid. Pearson de Success, c. viii. § 9. " Men who have lived
dly, is gathered together. * Become an excellent example among us.
*Envy.” The names of Danae and Dirce I omit.—See Junius Annot. in loc.
* Cursed afflictions or torments. *Envy or emulation. *Gen. ii. 23.
*Great. * End. 11
4.
Pachorts them to live
for your instruction, but also
for our own remembrance.
2 For we are all in the same
* lists, and the same combat is
* prepared for us all.
3 Wherefore let us lay aside
all vain and empty cares; and let
us come up to the glorious and
venerable rule of our holy calling.
4 * Let us consider what is
good, and acceptable and well
pleasing in the sight of him that
made us.
5 Let us look steadfastly to the
blood of Christ, and see how pre
cious his blood is in the sight of
God: which being shed for our
salvation," has obtained the grace
of repentance for all the world.
6 Let us 9 search into all the
ages that have gone before us ;
and let us learn that our Lord
has 7 in every one of them still
given place for repentance to all
such as would 8 turn to him.
7 ° Noah preached repentance;
and as many as hearkened to him
were saved. 19 Jonah denounced
destruction against the Ninevites:
8 Howbeit they repenting of
their sins, appeased God by their
prayers: and 11 were saved,
though they were strangers to the
covenant of God.
9 ‘ſ Hence we find how all the
ministers of the grace of God have
spoken by the Holy Spirit of re
pentance. And even the Lord of
all, has himself 1* declared with
an oath concerning it ;
10 13 As I live, saith the Lord,
I desire not the death of a sinner,
* but that he should repent. Add
* Instructing you, but also remembering, &c.
* 1 Tim. v. 4.
" From age to age.
*Imposed upon us all.
* Look diligently to.
ii. 5. Genesis vii.
* Ezekiel, xxxiii. 11.
from.
i. 16.
10 John. iii.
* Evil from your souls.
I. CLEMENT.
*So much as his repentance.
1° Ezekiel, xviii. 30, 23. Isaiah, i. Jeremiah, iii.4. 19.
orderly and repent.
ing farther this good sentence
saying: * Turn from your iniquity
O house of Israel.
11 16 Say unto the children of
my people, though your sins
should reach from earth to hea
ven ; and though they shall be
redder than scarlet, and blacker
than sackcloth : yet if ye shall
turn to me with all your heart,
and shall call me father, I will
hearken to you, as to a holy peo
ple.
12 And in another place he
saith on this wise: 17 wash ye,
make you clean ; put away " the
evil of your doings from before
mine eyes; cease to do evil, learn
to do well; seek judgment, relieve
the oppressed, judge the fatherless,
plead for the widow.
13 Come now and let us reason
together, saith the Lord : though
your sins be as scarlet, they shall
be as white as snow; though they
be red as crimson, 1° they shall be
as wool.
14 If ye be willing and obedi
ent ye shall eat the good of the
land: but, if ye refuse and rebel,
ye shall be devoured with the
sword; for the mouth of the Lord
hath spoken it.
15 These things has God esta
blished by his Almighty will, de
siring that all his beloved should
come to repentance.
CELAP. V.
1 He sets before them the examples of
holy men, whose piety is recorded in
the Scriptures.
HEREFORE let us obey
his excellent and glorious
* Place of encounter.
*Afforded or given to.
* Be turned * 2 Peter,
* Received salvation. *Spoken.
* Repent
17 Isaiah,
*I will make them as wool.
115
and sets before them
will ; and 1 imploring his mercy
and goodness, let us fall down
upon our faces before him, and
* cast ourselves upon his mercy;
laying aside all * vanity, and con
tention, and envy which leads
unto death.
2 Let us look up to those who
have the most perfectly ministered
to his excellent glory. Let us take
Enoch for our example; who be
ing found righteous in obedience,
was 4 translated, and his death
was not * known.
3 Noah "being proved to be
faithful, did by hisministry preach
7 regeneration to the world; and
the Lord saved by him all the
living creatures, that went * with
one accord into the ark.
4 9 Abraham, who was called
God's friend, was in like manner
found faithful; inasmuch as he
obeyed the 19 commands of God.
5 By obedience 11 he went out
of his own country, and from his
own kindred, and from his father's
louse: that so forsaking a small
country, and a weak affinity, and
a little house, he might inherit the
promises of God.
6 For thus God said unto him;
in get thee out of thy country, and
from thy kindred, and from thy
father's house, unto a land that I
will show thee.
7 And I will make thee a great
nation, and will bless thee, and
make thy name great, and thou
shalt be blessed. And I will bless
them that bless thee, and curse
them that curse thee; and in thee
shall all families of the earth be
blessed.
I. CLEMENT. eacamples of holy men.
8 And again when he separated
himself from Lot, God said unto
him; * Lift up now thine eyes,
and look from the place where thou
art northward and southward and
eastward and 14 westward for all
the land which thou seeest, to
thee will I give it, and to thy seed
for ever.
9 And I will make thy seed
as the dust of the earth, so that if
a man can number the dust of the
earth, than shall thy seed also be
numbered.
10 And again he saith : and
* God brought forth Abraham,
and said unto him ; look now to
ward heaven, and tell the stars, if
thou be able to number them : so
shall thy seed be.
11 And Abraham believed God,
and it was counted to him for
righteousness.
12 Through faith and hospita
lity, 16 he had a son given him in
his old age; and through obedi
ence he offered him up in sacri
fice to God, upon one of the moun
tains which God showed unto him.
CHAP. VI.
1 And particularly such as have been
eminent for their kindness and charity
to their neighbours.
Y 17 hospitality and godliness
was Lot saved out of Sodom,
when all the country round about
was 1* destroyed by fire and brim
stone :
2 The Lord thereby making it
manifest, that he will not forsake
those that trust in him; but 1° will
bring the disobedient to punish
ment and correction.
* Becoming suppliants of, &c. *Turn ourselves to his mercy. “Wain
labour. * Gen. 5. 24. 5 Found. * Being found. 7 Gen. vi. vii.
viii. * In unity. 9 James ii. 23. Isaiah, xli. 8. .” Words. *This
In8 Il. 12 Gen. xii. i. 13 Gen. xiii. 14. 14 Towards the sea. * Gen.
.v. 5, 16 A son was given unto him. ... " Gen. xix. 2, Peterii. 6, Jude 7.
is See Not. in loc. or punished with.
he puts, &c.
19 But those that turn another way,
116
Examples eminent
3 For his wife who went out
with him, being of a different
mind, 1 and not continuing in the
same obedience, was for that rea
son * set forth for an example, be
ing turned into a pillar of salt
unto this day.
4 That so all men may know,
that those who are double minded,
and distrustful of the power of
God, are * prepared for condem
nation, and to be a sign to all suc
ceeding ages.
5 * By faith and hospitality was
Rahab the harlot saved. For when
the spies were sent by Joshua the
son of Nun, to search out Jericho
and the king of Jericho knew that
they were come to spy out his
country; * he sent men to take
them, so that they might be put
to death.
6 * Rahab therefore, being hos
pitable, received them, and hid
them under the stalks of flax, on
the top of her house.
7 And when the 7 messengers
that were sent by the king came
unto her, and asked her, saying,
* There came men unto thee to
spy out the land, bring them forth,
for so hath the king commanded:
She answered, ° The two men
whom ye seek came unto me, but
presently they departed, and are
gone : 10 Not discovering them
unto them.
8 Then she said to the 11 spies,
* I know that the Lord your God
* has given this city into your
hands; for the fear of you is fallen
upon all that dwell therein. When,
therefore, ye shall have taken it
* Not in concord.
Fºllº Rahab.
Verse 4, 5.
*Given you this city.
*Put for a sign.
"He sent men that should take them, that being taken, &c.
* Men being sent by the king, and saying.
19 Vid. Conjectur. Coteler. in loc.
14 Verse 13.
L CLEMENT. for kindness and charity.
* ye shall save me and my father's
house.
9 And they answered her, say.
ing, It shall be as thou hast
spoken unto us. *Therefore, when
thou shalt know that we are near
thou shalt gather all thy family
together upon the house-top, and
they shall be saved : but all that
shall be found without thy house,
shall be destroyed.
10 19 And they gave her more
over a sign: that she should hang
out of her house a scarlet rope;
17 shewing thereby, that by the
blood of our Lord, there should
be redemption to all that believe
and hope in God. Ye see, be
loved, how there was not only
faith, but prophesy too in this
WOIIlala.
CHAP. VII.
1 What rules are given for this purpose.
ET us, therefore, humble our
selves, brethren, laying aside
all pride, and boasting, and fool
ishness, and anger: And let us
do as it is written.
2 For thus saith the Holy
Spirit; 19 Let not the wise man
glory in his wisdom, nor the strong
man in his strength, nor the rich
man in his riches ; but let him that
glorieth, glory in the Lord, to seek
him, and to do judgment and
justice.
3 Above all, remembering the
words of the Lord Jesus, which
he spake 1° concerning equity and
long suffering, * saying,
4 * Beye merciful and ye shall
obtain mercy; forgive, and ye
* Jos. ii. 1, &c.
• Therefore hos
"Many ofthe Fathershaveapplied thistothesamepurpose–Seenot. Coteler.
* Jer. ix. 23. Comp. 2 Cor. xi. 31.
* Become.
8 Verse 4.
11 Men. 13 Verse 9,
is Verse 18, 19. 16 Verse 18.
in loc.
thus he saith. * Luke vi. 35.
*Teaching us. 30 For
117
Eachorts to kindness
shall be forgiven: as ye do, so
shall it be done unto you : as ye
give, so shall it be given unto
you: as ye judge, so shall ye be
judged ; as ye are kind to others,
so shall God be kind to you : with
what measure ye mete, with the
same shall it be measured to you
again.
5 By this command, and by
these rules, let us establish our
selves, that so we may always
walk obediently to his holy words;
being humble minded :
6 For so says 1 the Holy Scrip
ture; * upon whom shall I look,
even upon him that is poor and of
a contrite spirit, and that trembles
at my word.
7 || It is, therefore, just and
* righteous, men and brethren, that
we should become obedient unto
God, rather than follow such as
* through pride and sedition, have
made themselves the ring-leaders
of a detestable emulation.
8 For it is not an ordinary
harm that we shall do ourselves,
but rather a very great danger
that we shall run, if we shall
rashly give up ourselves to the
wills of men, who " promote strife
and seditions, to turn us aside from
that which is fitting.
9 But let us be kind to one
another, according to the compas
sion and sweetness of him that
made us.
10 For it is written, “ The mer
ciful shall inherit the earth; and
they that are without evil shall
be left upon it : 7 but the trans
gressors shall perish from off the
face of it.
11 And again he saith, * I have
1 Holy Word.
on to.—See Junius Ann.
* Psalm lxxviii. 36.
I. CLEMENT.
will it. * Isaiah xxix. 13. Psalm lxii. 4.
* Psalm lxxviii. 36, 37 * Psalm xii. 3.
tongue.
* Isaiah lxvi. 2.
6 Psalm xxxvii. 9.
*With religion or godliness.
and charity.
seen the wicked in great power
and spreading himself like the
cedar of Libanus. I passed by,
and lo! he was not ; I sought his
place, but it could not be found.
12 Keep innocently, and do the
thing that is right, for there shall
be a remnant to the peaceable
Inan.
13 Let us, therefore, hold fast
to those who 9 religiously follow
peace; and not to such as "only
pretend to desire.
14 For he saith in a certain
place, in This people honoureth me
with their lips, but their heart is
far from me.
15 And again, They “bless
with their mouths, 1% but curse in
their hearts.
16 And again he saith, * They
loved him with their mouths, and
with their tongues they lied to
him. For their heart was not right
with him, neither were they faith
ful in his covenant.
17 is Let all deceitful lips be
come dumb, and the tongue that
speaketh proud things. Who have
said, 19 with our tongue will we
prevail; our lips are our own,
who is Lord over us.
18 For the oppression of the
poor, for the sighing of the needy,
now will I arise saith the Lord ; I
will set him in safety, I will deal
confidently with him.
CHAP. VIII.
He advises them to be humble; and that
from the examples of Jesus and of holy
men in all ages.
OR Christ is theirs who are
humble, and not who exalt
themselves over his flock. The
* In. * Prick
7 Prov. ii. 10.
1° With hypocrisy
12 Blessed. 13 Cursed
1° We will magnify our
* Holy.
118
4dvises to
sceptre of the majesty of God, our
Lord Jesus Christ, came not in
the 1 shew of pride and arrogance,
* though he could have done so :
but with humility as the Holy
Ghost had before spoken con
cerning him.
2 For thus he saith, Lord,
* who hath believed our report,
and to whom is the arm of the
Lord revealed 7 For he shall
grow up before him as a tender
plant, and as a root out of a dry
ground.
3 He hath no form or come
liness, and when we shall see
him, there is no beauty that we
should desire him.
4 He is despised and rejected
of men ; a man of sorrows and
acquainted with grief.
5 And we laid, as it were, our
faces from him ; he was despised,
and we esteemed him not.
6 Surely he hath born our
griefs, and carried our sorrows :
yet we did esteem him stricken,
smitten of God, and afflicted.
7 But he was wounded for our
transgressions; he was bruised
for our iniquities; the chastisement
of our peace was upon him ; and
with his stripes we are healed.
8 All we like sheep have gone
astray; we have turned every one
to his own way, and the Lord
hath laid on him the iniquity of
us all.
9 He was oppressed, and he
was afflicted, yet he opened not
his mouth : he is brought as a
lamb to the slaughter; and as a
sheep before her shearers is dumb,
so he openeth not his mouth.
10 He was taken from prison,
and from judgment ; and who
shall declare his generation ? For
he was cut off out of the land of
* Boasting.
according to the Hebrew.
I. CLEMENT.
* Katrep 8vvaplevos, though he were powerful.
* Psalm xxii. 6.
be humble.
the living, for the transgressions
of Iny people was he stricken.
11 And he made his grave with
the wicked, and with the rich in
his death; because he had done
no violence, neither was any de
ceit in his mouth.
12 Yet it pleased the Lord to
bruise him, he hath put him to
grief; when thou shalt make his
soul an offering for sin, he shall
see his seed, he shall prolong his
days; and the pleasure of the
Lord shall prosper in his hand.
13 He shall see of the travail of
his soul and shall be satisfied; by
his knowledge shall my righteous
servant justify many : for he shall
bear their iniquities.
14 Therefore will I divide him
a portion with the great, and he
shall divide the spoil with the
strong; because he hath pourted
out his soul unto death ; and he
was numbered with the trans
gressors, and he bare the sin of
many, and made intercession for
the transgressors.
15 And again he himself saith,
* I am a worm and no man, a re
proach of men, and despised of
the people. All they that see me
laugh me to scorn; they shoot
out their lips, they shake their
heads, saying : He trusted in the
Lord that he would deliver him,
let him deliver him seeing he de
lighted in him.
16 Ye see, beloved, what the
pattern is that has been given to
us. For if the Lord thus humbled
himself, what should we do who
are brought " by him under the
yoke of his grace?
17 Let us be followers of those
who went about in goat-skins and
sheep-skins: preaching the com
ing of Christ.
* Isaiah liii.
* MS. 8, avrov.
119
persuades to
18 Such were Elias, and Eli
sacus, and Ezekiel the prophets.
*And let us add to these such
others as have received the like
testimony.
19 Abraham has been greatly
witnessed of; having been called
the friend of God. And yet he
steadfastly beholding the glory of
God, says with all humility, "I
am dust and ashes.
20 Again of Job it is thus
written, “That he was just and
without blame, true; one that
served God, and abstained from
all Evil. Yet he accusing him
self, says, 5 No man is free from
pollution, nonot though he should
live but one day.
21 Moses was called faithful in
all God's House; and by his con
duct “the Lord punished Israel
by stripes and plagues.
22 And even this man, though
thus greatly honoured, spake not
greatly of himself; but when the
oracle of God was delivered to him
out of the bush he said, "Who
am I, that thou dost send me ! I
am of a slender voice, and a slow
tongue.
23 And again he saith, "I am
as the smoke of the pot.
24 And what shall we say of
David, so highly testified ofin the
Holy Scriptures To whom God
said "I have found a man after
my own heart, David the son of
Jesse, with my holy oil have I
anointed him.
25 But yet he himself saith
unto God, * Have mercy upon
me, O God, according to thy
loving kindness; according unto
I. CLEMENT. healing of differences.
26 Wash me thoroughly from
mine iniquity, and cleanse me
from my sin . For I acknowledge
my transgressions, and my sin is
ever before me.
27 Against Thee only have I
sinned, and done this evil in thy
sight, that though mightest be
justified when thou speakest, and
be clear when thou judgest.
28 Behold I was shapen in
iniquity, and in sin did my
mother conceive me.
29 Behold, thou desireth truth
in the inward parts; and in the
hidden part thou shalt make me
to know wisdom.
30 Purge me with hyssop and
I shall be clean, wash me and I
shall be whiter than snow.
31 Make me to hear joy and
gladness, that the bones which
thou hast broken may rejoice.
32 Hide thy face from my
sins, and blot out all mine ini
quities.
33 Create in me a clean heart
O God; and renew a right spirit
within me.
34 Cast me not away from thy
presence, and take not thy holy
spirit from me.
35 Restore unto to me the joy
of thy salvation, and uphold me
with thy free spirit.
36 Then I will teach trans
gressors thy ways, and sinners
shall be converted unto thee.
37 Deliver me from blood
guiltiness, O God, thou God of
my salvation, and my tongue
shall sing aloud of thy righteous
IleSS.
38 O Lord open thou my lips,
the multitude of thy tender mer
cies, blot out my transgressions.
*We say. *To these, those also
xviii. 27. *Job i. 1. ‘Job xiv. 4.
row uaoruyav. "Exod. iii. 11. * Exod.
li. to v. 17, according to the Hebrew.
and my mouth shall show forth
thy praise.
that have been witnessed of. * Gen.
° MS. explvevo 6eos rov Iapam) Öua
iv. 10. * Psalm lxxxix. 20." Psalm
120
persuades to
39 For thou desirest not sacri
fice, else would I give it; thou
delightest not in burnt offerings.
40 The sacrifices of God are a
broken spirit, a broken and a con
trite heart, O God, thou wilt not
despise.
CHAP. IX.
He again persuades them to compose their
divisions.
HUS has the humility and
"godly fear of these 2 great
and excellent men, 8 recorded in
the Scriptures, through obedience,
made not only us, but also the ge
nerations before us better; even
as many as have received his holy
oracles * with fear and truth.
2 Having therefore so many, and
such great and glorious" examples,
*let us return to that peace which
was the mark that from the begin
ning was set before us;
3 LetuslookuptotheFather and
Creator of the whole world; and
letusholdfasttohisgloriousandex
ceedinggifts and benefitsofpeace.
4 Let us 7 consider and behold
with the eyes of our * understand
ing his long-suffering will; and
think how gentle and patient he is
towards his whole creation.
5 The heavens moving by his
appointment, are subject to him in
peace.
6 Day andnight accomplish the
courses that he has allotted unto
them, not disturbing one another.
7 The sun and moon, and all
the several * companies and con
stellations of the stars, run the
19 courses that he has appointed to
them in concord, without depart
ing in the least from them.
8 The fruitful earth yields its
I. CLEMENT. healing of differences,
food plentifully in due season both
to man and beast, and to all ani
mals that are upon it, according
to his will ; not il disputing, nor
altering any thing of what was
ordered by him.
9 So also the unfathomable and
unsearchable floods of the deep,
are kept in by his command;
10 12 And the 18 conflux of the
vast sea, being brought together
by his order into its several col
lections, passes not the bounds
that he has set to it;
11 But as he 14 appointed it, so
it remains. For he said, 15 Hither
to shalt thou come, and thy floods
shall be broken within thee.
12 The ocean, unpassable to
mankind, and the worlds that are
beyondit, aregoverned bythesame
commands of their great master.
13 Spring and summer, autumn
and winter, give place peaceably
to each other. -
14 The several 10 quarters of the
windsfulfil their 17workin theirsea
sons,withoutoffending oneanother.
15 The ever-flowing fountains,
made both for pleasure and health,
never fail to reach out their breasts
to support the life of men.
16 Even the smallest creatures
18 live together in peace and con
cord with each other.
17 All these has the Great
Creator and Lord of all, com
manded to observe peace and con
cord; being good to all.
18 But especially to us who flee
to his mercy through our Lord
Jesus Christ; to whom beglory and
majesty for ever and ever. Amen.
CHAP. X.
He exhorts them to obedience, from the
*Fearfulness. *So great and such kind ofmen. "Witnessed of, or celebrated.
*In. “Deeds or works. "Let us return to the mark of peace given to us from
the beginning.
* Bounds. #p
*Commanded, so it does
together.
* See him with our understanding.
oubting. * Vid. Edit. Colomes. p. 53. * Hollow, or depth.
* Job xxxiii.
8 Soul. 9 Choruses.
16 Stations. 17 Servive. 18 Mix
16 121
und to obedience.
consideration of the goodness of God,
and of his presence in every place.
AKE heed, beloved, that his
many blessings be not to 1 us
to condemnation ; except we shall
walk worthy of him, doing with
* one consent what is good and
pleasing in his sight.
2 * The spirit of the Lord is a
candle, searching out the inward
parts of the belly.
3 Let us therefore consider how
near he is to us; and how that
none of our thoughts, or reason
ings which we frame within our
selves, are ‘hid from him.
4. It is therefore just that we
should not forsake our rank, by
doing contrary to his will.
5 Let us choose to offend a few
foolish and inconsiderate men,
lifted up and glorying 5 in their
own pride, rather than God.
6 Let us reverence our Lord
Jesus Christ whose blood was
given for us.
7 Let us honour those who are
set over us; let us respect the
aged that are amongst us; and
let us instruct the younger men,
in the discipline and fear of the
LORD.
8 Our wives let us 6 direct to do
that which is good.
9 Let them show forth a lovely
habit of purity in all their conver
sation; with a sincere 7 affection
of meekness.
10 Let the s government of
their tongues * be made manifest
by their silence.
11 Let their charity be with
out respect of persons, alike to
wards all such as religiously fear
God.
12 Let your children 10 be bred
up in the instruction of Christ:
1 All of us. * With concord. S. Prov.
our thoughts,
* Correct, or amend.
10 Partake of. "Saving.
I. CLEMENT. Of faith.
13 And especially let them
learn how great a power humility
has with God; how much a pure
and holy charity avails with him ;
how excellent and great his fear
is ; and how it will 11 save all such
as turn to him with holiness in a
pure mind.
14 For he is the searcher of the
thoughtsand counsels of the heart;
whose breath is in us, and when
he pleases he can take it from us.
CHAP. XI.
Of faith, and particularly what we are to
believe as to the Resurrection.
UT all these things 12 must be
confirmed by the faith which
is in Christ; for so he himself be
speaks us by the Holy Ghost.
2 13 Come ye children and
hearken unto me, and I will teach
you the fear of the Lord. What
man is there that desireth life, and
loveth to see good days?
3 Keep thy tongue from evil,
and thy lips that they speak no
guile.
4 Depart from evil and do
good; seek peace and ensue it.
5 The eyes of the Lord are
upon the righteous, and his ears
are open unto their prayers.
6 But the face of the Lord is
against them that do evil, to cut
off the remembrance of them from
the earth.
7 The righteous cried, and the
Lord heard him, and delivered
him out of all his troubles.
8 Many are the troubles of
the wicked ; but they that trust
in the Lord, mercy shall encom
pass them about.
9 Our all-merciful and benefi
cient Father hath bowels of com
passion towards them that fear
him; and kindly and lovingly
xx. 27. “That nothing is hid to him of
or reasonings. *In the pride of their own speech, or reason.
7 wāi. or counsel. “Moderation. "Let them manifest.
** The faith confirms. ** Psalm xxiv. 11.
122
Various Proofs.
bestows his graces upon all such
as come to him with a simple mind.
10 Wherefore letus not 1 waver,
neither let us have any doubt in
our hearts, of his excellent and
glorious gifts.
11 ? Let that be far from us
which is written, 8 Miserable are
the double minded, and those who
are doubtful in their hearts.
12 Who say these things have
we heard, and our fathers have
told us these things. But behold
we are grown old, and none of
them has happened unto us.
13 O ye fools “consider the
trees: take the vine for an exam
ple. First it sheds its leaves;
then it buds; after that it spreads
its leaves; then it flowers; then
come the sour grapes; and after
them follows the ripe fruit. Ye see
how in a little time the fruit of
the tree comes to maturity.
14 Of a truth, yet a little while
and his will shall suddenly be ac
complished.
15 The Holy Scripture itself
bearing witness, That “He shall
quickly come and not tarry, and
that the Lord shall suddenly come
to his temple, even the "holy ones
whom ye look for.
16 Let us consider, beloved,
how the Lord does continually
shew us, that there shall be a fu
ture resurrection ; of which he has
made our Lord Jesus Christ the
first fruits, raising him from the
dead.
17 Let us" contemplate,beloved,
the resurrection that is “continu
ally made before our eyes.
18 Day and night manifest a
resurrection to us. The night lies
down,and the day arises: again the
daydepartsand the night comeson.
I. CLEMENT. from nature,
19 Let us behold thefruits of the
earth. Every one sees how the
seed is sown. The sower * goes
forth, and casts it upon the earth;
and the seed which when it was
sown fell upon the earth dry and
naked, in time dissolves.
20 And from the dissolution,
the great power of the providence
of the Lord raises it again; and of
one seed many arise, and bring
forth fruit.
CHAP. XII.
The Resurrection further proved.
ET us consider that wonder
ful 1" type of the resurrection
which is seen in the Eastern coun
tries; that is to say, in Arabia.
2 There is a certain bird called
a Phoenix; of this there is never
but one at a time : and that lives
five hundred years. And when
the time of its dissolution draws
near, that it must die, it makes it
self a nest of frankincense, and
myrrh, and other spices into
which when its time is fulfilled
it enters and dies.
3 But its flesh putrifying,breeds
a certain worm, which being
nourished with the juice of the
dead bird brings forth feathers;
and when it is grown to a perfect
state, it takes up the nest in which
the bones of its parent lie, and
carries it from Arabia into Egypt,
to a city called Heliopolis:
4 And flying in open day in the
sight of all men, lays it upon the
altar of the sun, and so returns
from whence it came.
5 The priests then search into
the records of the time ; and find
that it returned precisely at the
end of five hundred years.
1 Be double-minded. * Let the writing be far from us. *James i. 8. “Coin
pare yourselves unto a tree. “Ex. MS. omitted by James, Hab. ii. 3. Malach.
iii. 1. " Coteler. AyyeXos Angel.
forth, and so in the rest. * Sign
7 See. *Made every season. * Went
193
of the resurrection.
6 And "shall we then think it
to be any very great and strange
thing for the Lord of all to raise
up those that religiously serve him
in the assurance of a good faith,
when even by a bird he shews us
the greatness of his power to fulfil
his promise?
7 For he says in a certain place,
Thou shalt raise me up and I shall
confess unto thee.
8 And again, "I laid me down
and slept, and awaked, because
thou art with me.
9 And again, Job says, "Thou
shalt raise up this flesh of mine,
that has suffered all these things.
10 Having therefore this hope,
let us * hold fast to him who is
faithful in all his promises, and
righteous in all his judgments;
who has commanded us not to lie:
how much more will he not him
self lie?
11 For nothing is impossible
with God but to lie.
12 Let his faith then be stirred
up again in us; and let us consider
that all things are nigh unto him.
13 By the word of his "power
he made all things; and by "the
same word he is able (whenever
he will), to destroy them.
14 Who shall say unto him,
what dost thou? or who shall re
sist the power of his strength ;
15 When, and as he pleased, 8
he will do all things; and nothing
shall pass away of all that has
been determined by him.
16 All things are open before
him ; nor can anything be hid
from his council.
17 °The heavens declare the
glory of God, and the firmament
sheweth his handy work. Day
unto day uttereth speech, and
I. CLEMENT. God's vengeance.
night unto night sheweth know
ledge. There is no speech nor
language where their voice is not
heard.
CHAP. XIII.
It is impossible to escape the vengeance of
God, if we continue in sin.
EEING then all things are
seen and heard by God; let
us fear him, and let us lay aside
our wicked works which proceed
from ill desires; that through his
mercy we may be 10 delivered from
the * condemnation to come.
2 For whether can any of us
flee from his mighty hand? Or
what world shall receive any of
those who run away from him.
3 For thus saith the Scripture
in a certain place, * Whither shall
I flee from thy Spirit, or where
shall I hide myself from thy pre
sence?
4 If I ascend up into heaven,
thou art there; if I shall go to the
utmost part of the earth, there is
thy right hand : If I shall make
my bed in the deep, thy Spirit is
there.
5 Whither then shall any one
go ; or whither shall he run from
him that comprehends all things
6 Let us therefore come to him
with holiness of “heart, lifting up
chaste and undefiled hands unto
him; loving our gracious and mer
ciful Father, who has made us * to
partake of his election.
7 For so it is written,”When
the Most High divided the nations,
when he separated the sons of
Adam, heset the bounds of thena
tions, according to the number of
his angels; "his people Jacob
became the portion of the Lord,
andIsrael thelotof his inheritance.
8 And in another place he
1 Do. 2 Psalm iii. 5. "Job. xix.23. “Let our minds be fastened. "Majesty.
*His word. 7 Wisd. xii. 12. " MS. wounget. *If the, &c., Psalm xix. 1.
* Judgments.
* So the Lxx.
10 Covered.
* Deut. xxxii. 8, 9.
* Psalm crxxix. 7. * Mind. * A part.
124
ffow to live
saith, "Behold the Lord taketh
unto himself a nation, out of the
midst of the nations, as a man
taketh the first-fruits of his flower;
* and the Most Holy shall come
out of that nation.
CHAP. XIV.
How we must live that we may please God.
HEREFORE we being a
part of the Holy One, let
us do all those things that pertain
unto holiness :
2 Fleeing all evil-speaking
against one another; all filthy and
impure embraces, together with all
drunkenness, youthful lusts, abo
minable concupiscences, detestable
adultery, and execrable pride.
3 °For God, saith he, resisteth
the proud, but giveth grace to the
humble.
4 Let us therefore hold fast to
those to whom “God has given
His grace.
5 And let us put on concord,
being humble, temperate ; free
from all whispering and detrac
tion; and justified by our “actions,
not our words.
6 For he saith, 6 Doth he that
speaketh and heareth many things,
and that is of a ready tongue, sup
pose that he is righteous? " Bless
ed is he that is born of a woman,
that liveth but a few days: * use
not therefore much speech.
7 Let our praise be of God, not
of ourselves; for God hateth those
that "commend themselves.
8 Let the witness of our good
actions be given to us of others,
as it was given to the holy men
that went before us.
9 Rashness, and arrogance, and
confidence, belong to them who
are accursed of God : but equity,
I. CLEMENT. to please God.
and humility, and mildness, to
such as are blessed by him.
10 Let us then lay hold of his
blessing, and let us * consider
what are the ways by which we
may attain unto it.
11 Let us * look back upon
those things that have happened
from the beginning.
12 For what was our father
Abraham blessed ? Was it not
because that through faith he
wrought righteousness and truth?
13 Isaac being *fully persuad
ed of what he knew was to come,
cheerfully yielded himself up for
a sacrifice. Jacob with humility
departed out of his own country,
fleeing from his brother, and went
unto Laban and served him; and
so the Fceptre of the twelve tribes
of Israel was given unto him.
14 Now what the greatness of
*this Gift was, will plainly ap
pear, i, we shall take the pains dis
tinctly to consider all thepartsofit.
15 For from him came the
priests and Levites, who all mi
nistered at the altar of God.
16 From him came our Lord
Jesus Christ according to the flesh.
17 From him came the kings,
and princes, and rulers in Judah.
18 Nor were the rest of his
* tribes in any small glory: God
having promised that “thy seed
(says he) shall be as the stars of
heaven.
19 They were all therefore
"greatly glorified, not for their
own sake, or for their own works,
or for the righteousness that they
themselves wrought, but through
his will.
20 And we also being called
by the same will in Christ Jesus,
1 Deut. iv. 34. * Num. xxvii. 3 Ja.. iv. 9, 1 Pet. v. 5. “The grace of God
has been given. "Works. "He that speaketh many things shall also hear, &c.
"Job xi. 2, 3, lxx. "Be not wordy
ways of his blessing. "Unrol.
a sacrifice.
“Sceptres. * Gen. xxvii. 17.
9 Are praised of.
* Woreknowing what was to be, became
* These gifts he shall Know who will carefully consider them.
1°C lorified.
19 See what are the
125
Of justification
are not justified by ourselves,
neither by our own wisdom, or
knowledge, or piety, or the works
which we have done in the holi
ness of our hearts:
21 But by that faith by which
God Almighty has justified all men
from the beginning; to whom be
glory for ever and ever. Amen.
CHAP. XV.
We are justified by faith : yet this must
not lessen our care to live well, nor our
pleasure in it.
HAT shall we do therefore,
brethren? Shall we be
slothful in well-doing, and lay
aside our charity ? God forbid
that any such thing should be
done by us. -
2. But rather let us hasten with
all earnestness and readiness of
mind, to perfect every good work.
For even the Creator and Lord of
all things himself rejoices in his
own works.
3. By his "Almighty power he
fixed the heavens, and by his in
comprehensible wisdom he adorn
ed them.
4 He also divided the earth
from the water, with which it is
encompassed ; and fixed it as a
secure tower, upon the foundation
of his own will.
5 He also by his appointment,
commanded all the living creatures
that are upon it, to exist.
6 So likewise the sea, and all
the creatures that are in it ; hav
ing first created them, he enclosed
them therein by his power.
7 And above all, he with his
holy and pure hands, formed man,
the most excellent, and, as to his
understanding, truly the greatest
of all other creatures, the character
of his own image.
* In holiness of heart.
* This. 6 Come to.
1° Him.
I. ULEMENT.
* All-greatest.
7 Work. *Isaiah xl. 10. lxii. 11. "Every good work
by faith and works.
8 For so God says, "Let us
make man in our image, after our
own likeness : so God created
man, male and female created he
them.
9 And having thus finished all
these things, he commended all
that he had made, and blessed
them, and said, “increase and
multiply.
10 We see how all righteous
men have been adorned with good
works : Wherefore even the Lord
himself, having adorned himself
with his works, rejoiced.
11 Having therefore * such an
example, let us without delay,
° fulfil his will ; and with all our
strength, work the work of righte
OuSIneSS.
CHAP. XVI
This enforced from the examples of the
holy angels, and from the exceeding
greatness of that reward which God
has prepared for us.
HE good workman with con
fidence receives the bread of
his 7 labour; but the sluggish and
lazy cannot look him in the face
that set him on work.
2 We must therefore be ready
and forward in well doing : for
from him are all things.
3 And thus he foretells us,
*behold the Lord cometh, and his
reward is with him, even before
his face, to render to every one
according to his work.
4 He warns us therefore before.
hand,with all his heart to this end,
that we should not be slothful and
negligent in * well-doing.
5 Let our boasting, therefore,
and our confidence be in 19 God:
let us submit ourselves to his will.
Let us consider the whole mul.
titude of his angels, how ready
* Gen. i. 20, 27. * Gen. i. 28
126
Of attaining the reward
they stand to minister unto his
will.
6 As saith the scripture, "thou
sands of thousands stood before him
and ten thousand times ten thou
sand ministered unto him. "And
they cried, saying, Holy, holy, holy
is the Lord of Sabbaoth : *The
whole earth his full of is glory.
7 Wherefore let us also, being
conscientiously gathered together
in concord with one another; as
it were with one mouth, cry ear
nestly unto him, that he would
make us partakers of his great and
glorious promises.
8 For he saith, “Eye hath not
seen, nor ear heard, neither have
entered into the heart of man, the
things which God has prepared
for them that wait for him.
CHAP. XVII.
1 Wemust attain unto thisreward by faith
andobedience, which we must carry on in
an orderly pursuing of the duties of our
several stations, without envy or conten
tion. 24 The necessity ofdifferentorders
among men. 33 We have none of us
anything but what we received of God:
whom therefore we ought in cwery condi
tion thankfully to obey.
OW blessed and wonderful,
beloved, are the gifts of God.
2 Life in immortality bright
ness in righteousness! truth in full
assurance I faith in confidence 1
temperance in holiness |
3 And all this has * God sub
jected to our understandings:
4. What therefore shall those
things be which he has prepared
for them that wait for him
5 The Creator and Father of 0
spirits, the Most Holy ; he only
knows both the "greatness and
beauty of them.
6 Let us therefore strive with
1 Dan. vii. 10.
ii. 9. "He, "Ages. " Quantity. “Gifts.
1. CLEMENT.
*Isaiah vi. 3. *Every creature.
of the righteous.
all earnestness, that we may be
found in the number of those that
wait for him, that so we may re
ceive the “reward which he has
promised.
7 But how, beloved,shall we do
this? "We must fix our minds by
faith towards God, and seek those
things that are pleasing and accep
table unto him.
8 We must 10 act conformably
to his holy will; and follow the
way of truth, casting off from us
all unrighteousness and iniquity,
together with all covetousness,
strife, evil manners, deceit, whis
pering, detractions; all hatred of
God, pride and boasting; vain
glory and ambition ;
9 For they that do these things
are odious to God; and not only
they that do them, but also 11 all
such as approve of those that do
them.
10 For thus saith the scripture,
* But unto the wicked, God said,
What hast thou to do to declare
my statute, or that thou shouldst
take my covenant in thy mouth
Seeing that thouhatest instruction,
and castest my words behind thee.
11 When thou sawest a thief,
then thou consentedst with him ;
and hast been partaker with adul
terers. Thou givest thy mouth to
evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit.
Thou sittest and speakest against
thy brother; thou slanderest thine
own mother's son.
12 These things hast thou done
and I kept silence; thou thought
est that I was altogether such a
one as thyself: but I will reprove
thee, and set them in order before
thine eyes.
13 Now consider this ye that
forget God, lest I tear you in
* Isaiah lxiv. 4, 1 Cor.
9 If we shall. 10 Perform those
things that areagreeable. "Rom. i. 32. *Psalmi. 15, &c., ac. to the Hebrew.
127
Of faith and obedience
pieces, and there be none to de
liver.
14 Whoso offereth praise, glo
rifieth me : and to him that dis
poseth his way aright, will I shew
the salvation of God.
15 This is the way, beloved, in
which we may find our Saviour,
even Jesus Christ the high-priest
of all our offerings, the defender
and helper of our weakness.
16 By him we look up to the *
highest heavens; and behold, as
in a glass, his spotless and most
excellent visage.
17 By him are the eyes of our
hearts opened; by him our fool
ish and darkened understanding
rejoiceth to behold his wonderful
light.
18 By him would God have us
to taste the knowledge of immor
tality: * who being the brightness
of his glory, is by so much greater
than the angels, as he has by in
heritance obtained a more excel
lent name than they.
19 For so it is written, who
maketh his angels spirits, and his
ministers a flame of fire : -
20 But to his son, thus saith
the Lord, "Thou art mySon, to-day
have I begotten, thee.
21 °Ask of me, and I will give
thee the heathen for thy inherit
ance, and the utmost parts of the
earth for thy possession.
22 Andagain he saith unto him,
* Sit thou on my right hand until
I made thine enemies my footstool.
23 But who arehis enemies? even
the wicked, and such who oppose
their own wills to the will of God.
24 Let us therefore “march on,
men and brethren, with all earnest
ness in his holy laws.
I. CLEMENT. in our calling.
25 Let us consider those who
fight under our earthly governors:
How orderly, how readily, and
with what exact obedience they
perform those things that are com
manded them. -- --
26 All are not *generals, nor
1° colonels, nor * captains, nor *
inferior officers :
27 But every one in his respec
tive rank does what is commanded
him by the king, and those who
have the authority over him.
18 They who are great, cannot
subsist without those thatarelittle;
nor the little without the great.
19 But there must be a mixture
in all things, and then there will
be use and profit too.
30 Let us, * for example, take
our body: the head without the
feet is nothing, neither the feet
without the head.
31 And even the smallest mem
bers of our body are yet both ne:
cessary and useful to the whole
body.
31 But all conspire together,
and * are subject to one common
use, namely, the preservation of
the whole 1" body.
33 Let therefore our whole body
be saved in Christ Jesus ; and
let every one be subject to his
neighbour, 1" according to the
order in which he is placed by the
"gift of God.
34 Let not the strong man de
spise the weak ; and let the weak
see that he reverence the strong.
35 Let the rich man distribute
to the necessity of the poor : and
let the poor bless God, that he has
given one unto him, by whom his
want may be supplied.
36 Let the wise man shew forth
* That which has the power to save us, * Heights of heaven. * Heb. i. 3, 4.
*Psalm ciz. 4. Heb. i. 7. * Heb. i. 5.
Psalm cv. 1. 8 War. 9 Prefects.
* Comp. Psalm ii. 7, 8.
* Commanders of a thousand.
* Heb. i. 13,
11 Centu
rions.” Commanders of 50, and so on. *l Cor. xii. 13, 21. 14. Use one common
subjection. ” MS. to oroa. *As also has he placed. * His gift.
128
Exhorts from the
his wisdom, not in words, but in
good works.
37 Let him that is humble, not
bear witness to himself, but let
him leave it to another to bear
witness of him.
38 Let him that is pure in the
flesh, not grow proud of it, know
ing that it was "from another that
he received the gift of continence.
39 Let us consider therefore,
brethren, " whereof we are made;
who, and what kind of men we
came into the world, as it were
out of a sepulchre, and from outer
darkness.
40 He that made us, and formed
us, brought us into his own world;
having “presented us with his be
nefits, even before we were born.
41 Wherefore, having received
all these things from him, we ought
in everything, to give thanks unto
him; to whom be glory for ever
and ever. Amen.
CHAP. XVIII.
From whence he exhorts them to do every
thing orderly in the Church, as the
only way to please God.
OOLISH and unwise men
* who have neither prudence,
nor learning, may mock and deride
us; being willing to set up them
selves in their own conceits:
2 *But what can a mortal man
do? Or what strength is there in
hin Khat is made out of the dust?
3 For it is written, there was no
shape before mine eyes; only I
heard a "sound and a voice.
4 * For what Shall man be
pure before the Lord? Shall he be
blameless in his works?
5 Behold, he trusteth not in his
servants; and his angels he charge
with folly.
* Another that gave him.
impudent, and without instruction.
xv. 15, iv. 19. * Job v. 1, &c.
* Eat. ** By chance.
I. CLEMENT.
* Of what matter.
"Were crushed upon.
different orders of men.
6 Yes, the heaven is not clean in
his sight, how much less they that
dwell in houses of clay; of which
also we ourselves were made 1
7 He smote them as a moth :
and from morning even unto the
evening they endure not. Because
they were not able to help them
selves, they perished; he breathed
upon them and they died, because
they had no wisdom.
8 °Call now if there be any
that will answer thee; and to
which of the angels wilt thou look?
9 For wrath killeth the foolish
man, and envy slayeth him that
is in error.
10 I have seen the foolish tak
ing root, but lo, their habitation
was presently consumed.
11 Their children were far from
safety, they "perished at the gates
of those who were lesser than
themselves ; and there was no
man to "help them.
12 For what was prepared for
them, the righteous "did eat; and
they shall not be delivered from
evil.
13 Seeing then these things are
manifest unto us, it will behove
us, to take care that looking into
the depths of the divine know.
ledge, we do all things in order,
whatsoever our Lord has com
manded us to do.
14 And particularly, that we
perform our offerings and service
to God, at their appointed seasons:
for these he has commanded to be
done, not *rashly and disorderly,
but at certain determinate times
and hours.
15 And therefore he has or
dained by his supreme will and
authority, both where, and by
* Prepared for us. “And
*An air. 7 John iv. 16, &c.,
19 Deliver.
5 For.
17 129
to order in the church
what persons, they are to be per
formed ; that so all things being
piously done unto all well-pleas
ing, they may be acceptable unto
* him.
16 They therefore who make
their offerings at the appointed
seasons, are happy and accepted :
because that obeying the com
mandments of the Lord, they are
free from sin.
17 And the same care must be
had of the persons that minister
unto him.
18 °For the chief-priest has
his proper services; and to the
priests their proper place is ap
pointed; and to the Levites ap
pertain their proper ministries:
and the layman is confined within
the bounds of what is commanded
to laymen.
19 Let every one of you there
fore, brethren, bless God in his
proper station, with “a good con
science, and with all gravity, not
exceeding the rule of his service
that is appointed to him.
20 The daily sacrifices are not
offered every where ; nor the
peace-offerings, nor the sacrifices
appointed for sins and transgres
sions; but only at Jerusalem: nor
in any place there, but only at the
altar before the temple ; that
which is offered being first dili
gently examined by thehigh-priest
and the other minister we before
mentioned.
21 They therefore who do any
thing which is not agreeable to His
will, are punished with death.
22 “Consider, brethren, that
by how much the better know
ledge God has vouchsafed unto us
by so much the greater danger him
are we exposed to.
I. CLEMENT.
1 To his will.
* Ye see. 5 Done.
* Wid. Coteler. in loc.
*See Coteler. in loc.
°l Thess. i. 5.
*Isaiah lx. 17.
as pleasing to God.
CHAP. XIX.
The orders of Ministers in Christ's Church
established by the Apostles according to
Christ's command, 7 after the example
of Moses. 16 Therefore they who have
been dulyplaced in the ministry accord.
ing to their order cannot without great
sin be put out of it.
HE Apostles have preached
to us from the Lord Jesus
Christ: Jesus Christ from God.
2 Christ therefore was sent by
God, the Apostles by Christ ; so
both were orderly “sent, accord
ing to the will of God.
3 For having received their
command, and being thoroughly
assured by the resurrection of our
Lord Jesus Christ; "and convinced
by the word of God, with the
"fulness of the Holy Spirit, they
went abroad, publishing, That the
kingdom of God was at hand.
4 And thus preaching through
countries and cities, “they ap
pointed the first fruits of their
conversion to be bishops and
ministers over such as should
afterwards believe, having first
proved them by the Spirit.
5 Nor was this any new thing:
seeing that long before it was
written concerning bishops and
deacons.
6 For thus saith the Scripture,
in a certain place: "I will appoint
their "overseers in righteousness,
and their ministers in faith.
7 And what wonder if they, to
whom such a work was committed
by God in Christ, established such
officers as we before mentioned;
when even that blessed and faith
ful servant in all His house, Moses,
* set down in the Holy Scriptures
all things that were commanded
§ Whom also all the rest of the
s *::::::: a good conscience.
* With the full assurance.
*Bishops, Deacons. ii Signified.
130
Of the orders
prophets followed, bearing witness
with one consent to those things
that were appointed by him.
9 For he, perceiving an emu
lation to arise among the tribes
concerning the priesthood,and that
there was a strife about it, which
of them should be adorned with
that glorious name; commanded
their twelve captains to bring to
him * twelve rods; every tribe
being written upon its rod, ac
cording to its name.
10 And he took them and
bound them together, and sealed
them with the seals of the twelve
princes of the tribes; and laid
them up in the tabernacle of wit
ness, upon the table of God.
11 And when he had shut the
door of the tabernacle he sealed
up the keys of it, in like manner
* as he had done the rods; and
said unto them, Men and brethren,
whichsoever tribe shall have its
rod blossom, that tribe has God
chosen to perform the office of a
priest, and “to minister unto him
in holy things.
12 And when the morning was
come, he called together all Israel
six hundred thousand men; and
shewed to the princes their seals;
and opened the tabernacle of
witness; and brought forth the
rods.
13 And the rod of Aaron was
found not only to have blossomed,
but also to have fruit upon it.
14 What think you, beloved?
Did not Moses before know 5 what
should happen?
15 Yes verily: but to the end
there might be no division, nor
tumult in Israel, he did in this
manner, that the name of the true
I. CLEMENT. in the ministry
and only God might be glorified
to him be honour for ever and
ever, Amen.
16 So likewise our Apostles knew
by our Lord Jesus Christ, that
there should contentions arise,
° upon account of the ministry.
17 And therefore having a per
fect fore-knowledge of this, they
appointed persons, as we have be
fore said, and then gave direc
tion, how, when they should die,
other chosen and approved men
should succeed in their ministry.
18 Wherefore we cannot think
that those may justly be thrown
out of their ministry, who were
either appointed by them, or af.
terwards chosen by other eminent
men, with the consent of the
whole church ; and who have with
all lowliness and innocency mi
nistered to the flock of Christ, in
peace, and without self-interest,
and were for a long time com
mended by all.
19 For it would be no small
sin in us, should we cast off those
from their “ministry who holily
and without blame "fulfil the du
ties of it.
20 Blessed are those priests,
who having finished their course
before these times have obtained
a fruitful and perfect dissolution:
for they have no fear, lest any one
should turn them out of the place
which is now appointed for them.
21 But we see how you have
put out some, who lived reputably
among you, from the ministry,
which by their innocence they had
adorned.
CHAP. XX.
He exhorts them to peace from exam
ples out of the Holy Scriptures, 20
*An emulation ºl. * Numb. xvii. “And the Rods. *To exercise
the office of the priest ood, and to minister, &c. *That this should be so.
"About the name of the bishoprick. Left a list of other chosen and ap
proved persons, who should succeed them in their ministry. See Dr.
Arden's Disc. upon this passage. Dr. Hammond's Power of the Keys,
c. iii. p. 413. *Bishoprick. " Offer the gifts.
181
Echorts to peace
particularly from St. Paul's exhorta
tion to them.
are contentious, brethren,
and zealous for things that
pertain not unto salvation.
2 Look into the Holy Scrip
tures, which are the true words of
the Holy Ghost. Ye know that
there is nothing unjust or counter
feit written in them.
3 There you shall not find that
righteous men were ever cast off
by such as were good themselves.
4 *They were persecuted, but it
was by the wicked and unjust.
5 They were cast into prison;
but they were cast in by those that
were unholy.
6 They were stoned; but it was
by transgressors.
7 They were killed; but by ac
cursed men, and such as had taken
up an unjust envy against them.
8 *And all these things they
underwent gloriously.
9 For what shall we say, bre
thren? Was Daniel cast into the
* den of lions, by men fearing
God? Ananias, Azarius, and Mi
sael, were they “cast into the
* fiery furnace by men, 6 profes
sing the excellent and glorious
worship of the Most High God
forbid.
10 What kind of persons then
where they that did these things
They were men abominable, full
of all wickedness; who where in
censed to so great a degree, as to
bring those into sufferings, who
with a holy and unblameable pur
pose of mind worshipped God:
not knowing that the Most High
is the protector and defender of
all such as with a pure conscience
serve his "holy name: to whom
*Just men.
* Dan. vi. 16. * Shut into.
* Full of virtue. 8 Have inherited.
* Psalm xvii. 2.
I. CLEMENT. from holy orders.
be glory for ever and ever, Amen.
11 But they who with a full
persuasion have endured these
things, "are made partakers of
glory and honour: and *are ex
alted and lifted up by God in their
memorial throughout all ages,
Amen.
12 ºſſ Wherefore it will behove
us also, brethren, "to follow such
examples as these; for it is written,
Hold fast to such as are holy; for
they that do so shall be sanctified.
13 And again in another place
he saith, * With the pure thou
shalt be pure, (" and with the elect
thou shalt be elect), but with the
perverse man thou shalt be * per
VerS6.
14 Let us therefore join our
selves to the innocent and righte
ous; for such are the elect of God.
15 Wherefore are there strifes,
and anger, and divisions, and
schisms, and wars, among us?
16 “Have we not all one God,
and one Christ? is Is not one spi
rit ofgrace poured out upon us all?
Have we not one calling in Christ?
17 Why then do we rent and
tear in pieces the members of
Christ; and raise seditions against
our own body ? And are come
to such a height of madness, as
to forget that * we were members
one of another ?
18 Remember the words of our
Lord Jesus, "how he said, Wo to
that man, (by whom offences
come) * It were better for him
that he had never been born, than
that he should have offended one
of my elect. It were better for
him, that a mill-stone should be
tied about his neck, and he should
be cast into the sea, than that he
* Suffering these things they underwent them gloriously.
* Dan. iii. 20.
* Have been exalte
* Omitted by Junius, and now restored from the MS.
*Turn aside “Eph. iv. 4. "I Cor. xii. 10Rom. xii. 17 For he said. "Luke,
6 Wºng the worship.
. 19 To cleave to.
x vii. 2.
*
132
Further eachorts
should offend one of my little
ones. -
19 Your schism has perverte
many, has discouraged many : it
has caused diffidence in many, and
grief in us all. And yet your
sedition continues still.
20 "I Take the epistle of the
blessed Paul the Apostle into your
hands; * What was it that he
wrote to you at his first preaching
the Gospel among you?
21 Verily he did “by the spirit
admonish you concerning himself,
and Cephas, and Apollos, because
that even then ye had begun to
fall into “parties and factions
among yourselves.
22 Nevertheless your partiality
then led you into a much less sin:
forasmuch as ye ‘placed your
affections upon Apostles, men of
*eminent reputation in the church;
and upon another, who was greatly
tried and approved of by them.
23 But consider, we pray you,
who are they that have now led
you astray; and lessened the "re
putation of that brotherly love that
was "so eminent among you ?
24 It is a shame, my beloved,
yea, a very great shame, and un
worthy of your Christian * pro
fession, to hear that the most firm
and "ancient church of the Corin
thians should, by one or two
persons, be led into a sedition
against its priests.
25 And this report is come not
only to us, but to those also that
differ from us.
26 Insomuch that the name of
the Lord is blasphemed through
your folly; and even ye yourselves
are brought into danger by it.
27 ºf Let us therefore with all
haste "put an end to this sedition;
*See Dodwell's add. and Pearson, Dr. Grabe, &c.
I. CLEMENT. to peace and union.
and let us fall down before the
Lord, and beseech Him with tears
that He " would be favourably
reconciled to us, and restore us
again to a "seemly and holy course
of brotherly love.
28 For this is the gate of
righteousness, opening unto life :
as it is written, “Open unto me
the gates of righteousness; I will
go in unto them and will praise
the Lord. This is the gate of the
Lord, the righteous shall enter
into it.
29 Although therefore many
gates are opened, yet this gate of
righteousness is that gate in Christ
at which blessed are they that
enter in, and direct their way in
holiness and righteousness, doing
all things without disorder.
30 Let a man be faithful, let
him be powerful in the utterance
of knowledge; let him be wise in
making an exact judgment of
words; let him be pure in all his
actions.
31 But still by how much the
more he seems to be “above others
by reason of these things, by so
much the more will it behove him
to be humble-minded; and to seek
what is profitable to all men, and
not his own advantage.
CHAP. XXI.
1 The value which God puts upon love and
wnity : the effects of a true charity,
8 which is the gift of God, and must
be obtained by prayer.
E that has the love that is in
Christ, let him keep the
commandments of Christ.
2 For who is able to express
the * obligation of the love of
God? What man is sufficient to
declare, and is fitting, the excel
lency of its beauty?
*Spiritually send
to you. ” Inclinations. “Inclined, “Witnessed of. “Gravity. "So much
spoken of “Institution. "See Dodwell. "Take away. "Becoming favour
able *Grave, venerable. * Psalm crviii. 19, 20. * Greater. 15 Bond.
133
*
w
The value and effects of I. CLEMENT.
3 The height to which charity
leads is inexpressible.
4 Charity unites us to God;
* charity covers the multitude of
sins : * charity endures all things,
is long-suffering in all things.
5 There is nothing base and
sordid in charity; charity lifts not
itself up above others; admits of
no divisions ; is not seditious :
but does all things in peace and
concord.
6 By charity were all the elect
of God made perfect: Without it
nothing is pleasing and acceptable
in the sight of God.
7 Through charity did the Lord
*join us unto himself; whilst for
the love that he bore towards us,
our Lord Jesus Christ gave his
own blood for us, by the will of
God; his flesh for our flesh; his
soul, for our souls.
8 || Ye see, beloved, how great
and wonderful a thing charity is:
and how that no expressions are
sufficient to declare its perfection.
9 But who is fit to be found in
it? Even such only as God shall
vouchsafe to make so.
10 Let us therefore pray to him,
and beseech him, that we may be
worthy of it; that so we may live
in charity ; being unblamable,
without human propensities, with
out respect of persons.
11 All the ages of the world,
from Adam, even unto this day,
are passed away; but they who
have been made perfect in love,
have by the grace of God obtain
ed a place among the righteous;
and shall be made manifest in the
*judgment of the kingdom of
Christ.
12 For it is written, "Enter in
to thy chambers for a little space,
till my anger and indignation shall
1. Glues. * 1 Peter iv. 9. § 1 Cor. xiii.
7 Are we.
or visitation. " Isaiah xxvi. 20.
wnity and charity.
pass away: And I will remember
the good day, and will raise you
up out of your graves. -
13 Happy 7 then shall we be,
beloved, if we shall have fulfilled
the commandments of God, in the
unity of love; that so, through
love, our sins may be forgiven us.
14 For so it is written, “Bless
ed are they whose iniquities are
forgiven, and whose sins are
covered. Blessed is the man to
whom the Lord imputeth no sin,
and in whose mouth there is no
guile.
15 Now this blessing is fulfilled
in those who are chosen by God
through Jesus Christ our Lord, to
whom be glory for ever and ever.
Amen.
CHAP. XXII.
1 He eachorts such as have been concerned
in these divisions to repent, and return
to their unity, confessing their sin to
God, 7 which he enforces from the
example of Moses, 10 and of many
among the heathen, 23 and of Judith
and Esther among the Jews.
ET us therefore, as many as
have transgressed by any of
the "suggestions of the adversary,
beg God's forgiveness.
2 And as for those who have
been the "heads of the sedition
and faction among you, *let them
look to the common end of our
hope.
3 For as many as are *endued
with fear and charity, would
rather they themselves should fall
into trials than their neighbours:
And chuse to be themselves con
demned, rather than that the good
and just charity delivered to us,
should suffer.
4 For it is seemly for a man
to confess wherein he has trans
gressed.
7, &c. *Take us up. "Animadversion,
* Psalm xxxii. 9 See Junius
in loc. 19 Chief leaders. "They ought. *Walk according to ; live in.
134
Eachorts to unity from
5 i And not to harden his heart,
as the hearts of those were hard
dened, who raised up sedition
against Moses the servant of God:
whose punishment was manifest
* unto all men; for they went
down alive into the grave, death
swallowed them up.
6 *Pharaoh and his host, and
all the rulers of Egypt, their cha
riots also and their horsemen,
were for no other cause drowned,
in the bottom of the Red Sea, and
perished; but because they hard
ened their foolish hearts, after so
many signs done in the land of
Egypt, by Moses the servant of
God.
7 'ſ Beloved, God is not indi
gent of any thing; nor does he
demand any thing of us, but that
we should confess our sins unto
him.
8 For so says the “Holy David,
*I will confess unto the Lord, and
it shall please him better than a
young bullock that hath horns
and hoof. Let the poor see it
and be glad.
9 And again he saith, "Offer
unto God the sacrifice of praise,
and pay thy vows unto the Most
Highest. And call upon me in
the day of trouble, and I will de
liver thee, and thou shalt glorify
me. " The sacrifice of God is a
broken spirit.
10 T Ye know, beloved, ye
know fall well the Holy Scrip.
tures ; and have thoroughly
searched into the oracles of God:
call them therefore to your re
membrance.
11 For when Moses went up
into the mount, and tarried there
forty days and forty nights in fast
ing and humiliation; God said
I. CLEMENT. the example of Moses.
unto him, "Arise, Moses, and get
thee down quickly from hence,
forthypeople whom thou brought
est out of the land of Egypt, have
committed wickedness: they have
soon transgressed the way that I
commanded them, and have made
to themselves graven images.
12 And the Lordsaidunto him,
I have spoken unto thee "several
times, saying, I have seen this
people, and behold it is a stiff
necked people : let me therefore
destroy them, and put out their
name from under heaven. And I
will make unto thee a great and a
wonderful nation, that shall be
much "larger than this.
13 But Moses said, Not so,
Lord : Forgive now this people
their sin; or if thou wilt not, blot
me also out of the book of the liv
ing. O admirable charity O in
superable perfection The ser
vant speaks freely to his Lord:
He beseeches him either to for
give the people, or to * destroy
him together with them.
14 ºf Who is there among you
that is generous ! Who that is
compassionate 7 Who that has
any charity? Let him say, if this
sedition, this contention, and these
schisms, be upon my account, I
am ready to depart; to go away
whithersoever you please; and do
whatsoever * ye shall command
me: Only let the flock of Christ
be in peace, with the elders that
are set over it.
15 He that shall do this, shall
get to himself a very great honour
in the Lord ; and * there is no
place but what will be ready to
receive him: * For the earth is
the Lord's and the fulness thereof.
16 These things they who have
"Rather than. *Num. xvi. *Exod. iv. 4 Chosen. "Psalm lxix. 31. "Psalm
L. 14. 7 Psalm li. 17. "Exod. xxxii. Deut. ix. "Once and twice. 19 More,
greater. "Blot out. **The multitude. 14 Psalm xxiv.
*Every place.
135
the heathems, &c.
their conversation towards God
not to be repented of, both have
done and will always be ready to
do.
17 T 1 Nay and even the Gen
tiles themselves have given usex.
amples of this kind.
18 For we read, How many
kings and princes, in times of
pestilence, being warned by their
oracles, have given up themselves
unto death: that by their own
blood, they might deliver their
"country from destruction.
19 *Others have forsaken their
cities, so that they might put an
end to the seditions of them.
20. We know how many among
ourselves, have given up them
selves unto bonds, that thereby
they might free others from them.
21 Others have sold themselves
into bondage that they might feed
“their brethren with the price of
themselves.
22 And even many women,
being strengthened by the grace of
God, have done many glorious and
manly things on such occasions.
23 The blessed "Judith, when
her city was besieged, desired the
elders, that they would suffer her
to go into the camp of "their ene
mies: and she went out exposing
herself to danger for the love she
bore to her country and her peo.
ple that were besieged; and the
Lord delivered Holofernes into
the hands of a woman.
24 Nor did "Esther, being per
fect in faith, expose herselfto any
less hazard, for the delivery ofthe
twelve tribes of Israel, in danger
of being destroyed. For, by fast
ing and humbling herself, she
entreated the Great Maker of all
things, the God of "spirits; so
that beholding the humility of her
*But that we may bring the examples of heathens.
I. CLEMENT. The benefit
soul, he delivered the people, for
whose sake she was in peril.
CHAP. XXIII.
The benefit of mutual advice and corree
tion. He entreats them to follow that
which is here given to them.
HEREFORE let us also
pray for such as are fallen
into "sin. That being endued
with humility and moderation,
they may submit not unto us, but
to the will of God.
2. For by this means "they
shall obtain a fruitful and perfect
remembrance, with mercy, both
in our prayers to God, and in
our mention of them before his
*saints.
3 Let us receive correction, at
which no man ought to repine.
4 Beloved, the reproof and the
correction which we exercise to
wards one another, is good, and
exceeding profitable : for it unites
us the more closely to the will of
God.
5 For so says the Holy Scrip
ture, * The Lord corrected me.
but he did not deliver me over
unto death. ” For whom the Lord
loveth he chasteneth, and scourg.
eth every son whom he receiveth.
6 * The righteous, saith he,
shall instruct me in mercy and
reprove me ; but let not oil of
sinners make fat my head.
7 And again he saith, “Happy
is the man whom God correcteth;
therefore despise not thou the
chastening of the Almighty.
8 For he maketh sore and bind
eth up ; he woundeth and his
hands make whole.
9 He shall deliver thee in six
troubles ; yea in seven there shall
no evil touch thee. In famine he
shall redeem thee from death;
*Citizens. *Many.
*Others. "Judith, viii. ix.x. xiii. "The Strangers. Esther, vii. viii. 8Ages;
who, * Wiz. that of schism. 19 There shall be to them. 11 i.e. our Fellow
Christians. *Psalm xcviii. i*Prov. iii. 11. “Psalm crli. 5, 14.job. v. 17, &c.
136
of mutual advice
and in war from the power of the
sword.
10 Thou shalt be hid from the
scourge of the tongue; neither
shalt thou be afraid of destruction
when it cometh.
11 Thou shalt laugh at the
wicked and sinners; neither shalt
thou be afraid of the beasts of the
earth. The wild beast shall be
at peace with thee.
12 Then shalt thou know that
thy house shall be in peace ; and
the habitation of thy tabernacle
shall not err. Thou shalt know
also that thy seed shall be great
and thy offspring as the grass of
the earth.
13 Thou shalt come to thy
grave as the ripe corn, that is
taken in due time; like as a shock
of corn cometh in, in its season.
14 Ye see, beloved, how there
shall be a defence to those that are
corrected of the Lord. For being
a good instructor, he is willing to
admonishus byhis holy discipline.
15 Do ye therefore who laid
the first foundation of this sedi
tion, submit yourselves unto your
“priests; and be instructed unto
repentance, bending the knees of
your hearts.
16 Learn to be subject, laying
aside all proud and arrogant boast
ing of your tongues.
17 For it is better for you to
be found little, and approved, in
the * sheepfold of Christ, than to
seem to yourselves better than
others, and be cast out of his ‘fold.
18 For thus speaks the excel
lent and all virtuous wisdom, *
Behold I will pour out the word
of my spirit upon you, I will make
known my speech unto you.
19 Because I called and ye
would not hear, I stretched out
my words and ye regarded not.
I. CLEMENT.
*See Junius in loc.
"To his name.
1 Elders.
* Master.
* See Coteler in loc.
and correction.
10 But ye have set at nought
all my counsel, and would none of
my reproof. I will also laugh at
your calamity, and mock when
your fear cometh.
21 When your fear cometh as
desolation, and your destruction
as a whirlwind, when distress and
anguish cometh upon you.
22 Then shall ye call upon me
but I will not hear you : the
wicked shall seek me but they
shall not find me. For that they
hated knowledge, and did not seek
the fear of the Lord.
23 They would not hearken
unto my counsel : they despised
all my reproof. Therefore shall
they eat of the fruit of their own
ways ; and be filled with their
own wickedness.
* 4- 4
CHAP. XXIV.
1 Recommends them to God. Desires
speedily to hear that this Epistle has
had a good effect upon them. 4 Con.
clusion.
OW God, the inspector of
all things, the * Father of
Spirits, and the Lord of all flesh,
who hath chosen our Lord Jesus
Christ, and us by him, to be his
peculiar people;
2 Grant to every soul of man
that calleth upon his glorious and
holy name, faith, fear, peace, long
suffering, patience, temperance,
holinessandsobriety, unto all well
pleasing "in his sight; through
our High-Priest and Protector
Jesus Christ, by whom be glory
and majesty, and power, and
honour, unto him now and for
ever more, Amen.
3 * The messengers whom we
have sent unto you, Claudius,
* Prov. i. 23, &c.
137
18
Commendation to
Ephebus, and Valerios Bito, with
II. CLEMENT. sincere obedience.
4. The Grace of our Lord Jesus
Fortunatus, send back to us again Christ be with you, and with all
with all speed in peace, and with that are any where called by God
joy, that they may the sooner ac
quaint us with your peace and
concord, so much prayed for and
desired by us; and that we may
rejoice in your good order.
through him : To whom be honour
and glory, and might and majesty,
and eternal dominion, by Christ
Jesus, from everlasting to ever
lasting, Amen
The SECOND EPISTLE of CLEMENT to the
CORINTHIANS.
[Archbishop Wake is the translator of this Second Epistle, which he says
was not of so great reputation among the primitive Fathers as the first.
He defends it notwithstanding; and in answer to those who objected to
Clement's First Epistle, that it did not dul honour the Trinity, the
º refers to this as containing proof of the writer's fulness of
belief on that point.]
CHAP. I.
That we ought to value our salvation; and
to shew that wedo,by a sincereobedience.
RETHREN, we ought so to
think of Jesus Christ as of
God: as of the judge of the living,
and the dead; nor should we think
any less of our salvation.
2 For if we think "meanly of
him, we shall hope only to receive
some small things from him. .
3 And if we “do so; we shall
sin; not “considering from whence
we have been called,and bywhom,
and to what place; and how much
Jesus Christ vouchsafed to suffer
for our sakes.
4 What recompense then shall
we render unto him? Or what
fruit that may be worthy of what
he has given to us?
5 For indeed “how great are
those advantages which we owe to
him in relation to our holiness
He has illuminated us: as a father,
he has called us his children; he
has saved us who were lost and
undone.
6 What praise shall we give to
him? Or what reward that may
be answerable to those things
which we have received.
7 We were defective in our un
derstandings; worshipping stones,
and wood ; gold, and silver, and
brass, the works of men's hands ;
and our whole life was nothing
else but death.
8 Wherefore being encompass
ed with darkness, and having
such a mist before our eyes, we
have looked up, and through his
will have laid aside the cloud
wherewith we were surrounded.
9 For he had compassion upon
us, and being moved in his bowels
towards us, he saved us ; having
beheld in us much error, and de
struction; and seen that we had
no hope of salvation, but only
through him.
10 For he called us who were
not; and waspleased from nothing
to give us being.
CHAP. II.
1 That God had before prophesied
Isaiah, that the Gentiles should be saved,
8 That this ought to engage such especi
ally to live well ; without which they
will still miscarry.
EJOICE, thou barren, that
bearest not, break forth and
cry thou that travailest not ; for
* Him. * Little things, or meanly. * Hear as of little thing". * Knowing.
*How greatly holy things do we owe unto him.
l38
The Gentiles
she that is desolate hath many
more children than she that hath
an husband,"
2 In that he said, Rejoice thou
barren that bearest not, he spake
of us: for our church was barren
before that children were given
unto it.
3 And again ; when he said,
Cry thou that travailest not ; he
implied thus much : That after
the manner of women in travail,
we should not cease to put up our
prayers unto God * abundantly.
4 And for what follows, because
she that is desolate hath more
children than she that hath an hus
band: it was therefore added, be:
cause our people which seem to
have been forsaken by God, now
believing in him, are become more
than they who seemed to have
God.
5 And another Scripture saith,
*I came not to call the righteous
but sinners (to repentance). The
meaningof whichisthis: that those
who were lost must be saved.
6 For that is, indeed, truly great
and wonderful,notto confirm those
things that are yet standing, but
those which are falling.
7 Even so did it seem good to
Christ to save what was lost; and
when he came into the world, he
saved many, and called us who
were already lost.
8 Seeing then he has shewed
so great mercy towards us; and
chiefly for that, we who are alive,
do now no longer sacrifice to dead
Gods, nor pay any worship to
them, but have by him been
brought to the knowledge of the
Father of truth.
9 “Whereby shall we shew that
we do indeed know him, but by
* Isaiah liv. 1.
2 Cor. viii. 2, ix. 11, 13.
is towards him. * Matt. x. 32.
"Wherefore we doing these things.
II. CLEMENT. to be saved.
not denying him by whom we have
come to the knowledge of him?
10 For even he himself saith,
* Whosoever shall confess me be
fore men, him will I confess before
my Father. This therefore is our
reward if we shall confess him by
whom we have been saved.
11 But, wherein must we con
fess him – Namely, in doing
those things which he saith, and
not disobeying his command
ments : by worshipping him not
with our lips only, but with all our
heart, and with all our mind. For
he saith in Isaiah : "This people
honoreth me with their lips, but
their heart is far from me.
12 Let us then not only call
him Lord ; for that will not save
us. For he saith: "Not every one
that saith unto me Lord, Lord,
shall be saved, but he that doeth
righteousness.
13 Wherefore, brethren, let us
confess him by our works ; by
loving one another ; in not com
mitting adultery, not speaking evil
against each other, not envying
one another ; but by being tem
perate, merciful, good.
14 Let us also have a mutual
sense of one another's sufferings;
and not be covetous of money:
but let us, by our good works,
confess God, and not by those that
are otherwise.
15 Also let us not fear men :
but rather God. 8 Wherefore, if
we should do such wicked things,
the Lord hath said: Though ye
should be joined unto me, even in
my very bosom, and not keep my
commandments, I would cast you
off, and say unto you: * Depart
from me; I know not whence you
are, ye workers of iniquity.
*’ArNos. See St. James i. 5. Compare Rom. xii. 8.,
* Matt. ix. 13. *What is the knowledge which
* Isaiah xxix. 13. * Matt. vii. 21.
* Matt. xii. 23; Luke xiii. 27.
139
Exhorts against the
CHAP. III.
1 That whilst we secure the other world,
we need not fear what can befall us
in this. 5 That ifwe follow the interests
of this present world, we cannot escape
the punishment of the other. 10 Which
ought to bring us to repentance and
holiness, 14 and that presently: be
cause in this world is the only time for
repentance.
HEREFORE, brethren,
leaving willingly for con
science sake our sojourning in this
world, let us do the will of him
who has called us, and not fear to
depart out of this world.
2 For the Lord saith, "Ye shall
be as sheep in the midst of wolves.
Peter answered and said, What if
the wolves shall tear in pieces the
sheep? Jesus said unto Peter,
Let not the sheep fear the wolves
after death : *And ye also fear not
those that kill you, and after that
have no more that they can do unto
you ; but fear him who after you
are dead, has power to cast both
soul and body into hell-fire.
3 For consider, brethren, that
the sojourning of this flesh in the
present world, is but little, and of
a short continuance, but the pro
mise of Christ is great and won
ñerful, even the rest of the king
dom that is to come, and of eternal
life.
4 What then must we do that
we may attain unto it?—We must
* order our conversation holily and
righteously, and look upon all the
things of this world as none of
ours, and not desire them. For,
if we desire to possess them we fall
from the way of righteousness.
5 For thus saith the Lord, “No
servant can serve two masters. If
therefore we shall desire to serve
God and Mammon, it will be
without profit to us. "For what
II, CLEMENT. things of this world.
will it profit, if one gain the whole
world, and lose his own soul?
6 Now this world and that to
come are two enemies. This speak
eth of adultery and corruption, of
covetousness and deceit; but that
renounces these things.
7 We cannot, therefore, be the
friends of both ; but we must re
solve by forsaking the one, to en
joy the other. And we think it is
better to hate the present things,
as little, short-lived, and corrupti
ble, and to love those which are to
come, which are truly good and
incorruptible.
8 For, if we do the will of
Christ, we shall find rest: but if
not, nothing shall deliver us from
eternal punishment if we shall
disobey his commands. For even
thus saith the Scripture in the
prophet Ezekiel, "If Noah, Job,
and Daniel should rise up, they
shall not deliver their children in
captivity.
9 Wherefore, if such righteouſ
men are not able by their righte
ousness to deliver their children ;
how can wo hope to enter into the
kingdom of God, except we keep
our baptism holy and undefiled !
Or who shall be our advocate, un
less we shall be found to have done
what is holy and just 1
10 Let us, therefore, my bre.
thren, contend with all earnestness,
knowing that our combat is at
hand; and that many go long
voyages to encounter for a cor.
ruptible reward.
11 And yet all are not crowned,
but they only that labour much,
and strive gloriously. Let us,
therefore, so contend, that we may
all be crowned. Let us run in the
straight road, the race that is in
corruptible: and let us in great
* Matt. v. 16. * Luke xii. 4, 5.
awspeqeoréal. “Luke xvi. 13. * Matt. xvi. 26.
* MS. Alexander. oorios k buratos
* Fzek. xiv. 14, 20.
140
and to repentance.
numbers pass unto it, and strive
that we may receive the crown.
But and if we cannot all be
crowned, let us come as near to it
as we are able.
12 Moreover, we must consider,
that he who contends in a cor
ruptible combat, if he be found
doing anything that is not fair, is
taken away and scourged, and cast
but of the lists. What think ye
then that he shall suffer, who does
anything that is not fitting in the
combat of immortality ?
13 Thus speaks the prophet
concerning those who keep not
their seal; "Their worm shall not
die, and their fire shall not be
quenched; and they shall be for
a spectacle unto all flesh.
14 Let us therefore repent,
whilst we are yet upon the earth:
for we are as clay in the hand of
the artificer. For as the potter if
he make a vessel, and it be turned
amiss in his hands, or broken,
again forms it anew ; but if he
have gone so far as to throw it
into the furnace of fire, he can no
more bring any remedy to it.
15 So we, whilst we are in this
world, * should repent with our
whole heart for whatsoever evil
we have done in the flesh; while
we have yet the time of repent
ance, that we may be saved by the
Lord.
16 For after we shall have de
parted out of this world, we shall
no longer be able either to confess
our sins or repent * in the other.
17 Wherefore, brethren, let us
doing the will of the Father, and
keeping our flesh pure, and ob
serving the commandments of the
Lord, lay hold on eternal life : for
the Lord saith in the gospel, “If
ye have not kept that which was
1 Isaiah lxvi. 24.
Alex. plane sic exhibit:ets Xoisos.
II. CLEMENT.
* Let us repent.
of the resurrection.
little, who willgive you that which
is great HFor I say unto you, he
that is faithful in that which is
least, is faithful also in much.
18 This, therefore, is what he
saith ; keep your bodies pure, and
your seal without spot, that ye
may receive eternal life.
CHAP. IV.
1 We shall rise, and be judged in our
bodies ; therefore we must live well
in them, 6 that we ought, for our own
interest, to live well ; though few
seem to mind what really is for their
advantage, 10 and not deceive our.
selves : seeing God will certainly
judge us, and render to all of us ae.
cording to our works.
ND let not any one among
you say, that this very flesh
is not judged, neither raised up.
Consider, in what were you saved ;
in what did you look up, if not
whilst you were in this flesh.
2. We must, therefore, keep our
flesh as the temple of God. For
in like manner as ye were called
in the flesh, ye shall also come to
judgment in the flesh. “Our one
Lord Jesus Christ, who has saved
us, being first a spirit, was made
flesh, and so called us; even so
we also shall in this flesh receive
the reward.
3 Let us, therefore, love one
another, that we may attain unto
the kingdom of God. Whilst we
have time to be healed, let us de
liver up ourselves to God our phy
sician,giving our reward unto him.
4 And what reward shall we
give —Repentance out of a pure
heart. For he knows all things
before hand, and searches out our
very hearts.
5 Let us, therefore, give praise
unto him : not only with our
mouths, but with all our souls;
3 There. “Luke xvi. 10, 12. *MS.
141
A fragment of
that he may receive us as children.
*For so the Lord hath said; "They
are my brethren, who do the will
of my father.
6 * Wherefore, my brethren,
let us do the will of the Father,
who hath called us, that we may
live. Let us pursue virtue, and
forsake wickedness, which leadeth
us into sins; and let us flee all un
godliness, thatevils overtakeus not.
7 For, if we shall do our dili
gence to live well, peace shall
follow us. "And yet how hard is
it to find a man that does this
For almost all are led by human
fears,choosingratherthepresenten
joyments, than the future promise.
8 For they know not how great
a torment the present enjoyments
bring with them ; nor what de
lights the future promise.
9 And if they themselves only
did this, it might the more easily
be endured; but now they go on
to infect innocent souls with their
evil doctrines; not knowing that
both themselves, and those that
hear them, shall receive a double
condemnation.
10 * Let us, therefore serve
God with a pure heart, and we
shall be righteous: but if we shall
not serve him because we do not
believe the promise of God, we
shall be miserable.
11 For thus saith the prophet;
*Miserable are the double minded,
who doubt in their heart, and say,
thesethings we have heard, even in
the time of our fathers,but we have
seen none of them, though we have
expected them from day to day.
12 O ye fools 1 compare your
selves to a tree; take the vine for
an example. First it sheds its
leaves, then it buds, then come the
sour grapes, then the ripe fruit;
II. CLEMENT. the Lord's kingdom.
even so my people has borne its
disorders and afflictions, but shall
hereafter receive good things.
13 Wherefore my brethren, let
us not doubt in our minds, but let
us expect with hope, that we may
receive our reward ; for he is
faithful, who has promised that
he will render to every one a re
ward according to his works.
14 If, therefore, we shall do
what is just in the sight of God
we shall enter into his kingdom,
and shall receive the promises,
*Which neither eye has seen, nor
ear heard, nor have entered into
the heart of man.
15 T Wherefore let us every
hour expect the kingdom of God
in love and righteousness; be
cause we know not the day of
God's appearing.
CHAP. W.
A FRAGMENT.
Of the Lord's kingdom.
1 * * For the Lord himself,
being asked by a certain person,
When his kingdom should come?
answered, When two shall be one,
and that which is without as that
whichis within; and the male with
thefemale, neither malenorfemale.
2 Now two are one, when we
speak the truth to each other, and
there is (without hypocrisy) one
soul in two bodies:
3 And that which is without as
that which is within ;-He means
this: he calls the soul that which
is within, and the body that which
is without. As therefore thy body
appears, so let thy soul be seen by
its good works.
4 And the male with the female
neither male nor female ;-He
means this; he calls our anger the
male,our concupiscence thefemale
* Vox. esov. non estin MS. * Matt. xii. 50. *For, for this cause, we cannot
find a man. Aliter Wendel. in traduct. lat. q. v. *See I. Clement, chap.
x. * 1 Cor. ii. 9.
142
Preface to
5. When therefore a man is
come to such a pass that he is
subject neither to the one nor the
other of these (both of which,
through the prevalence of custom,
and an evil education, cloud and
BARNABAS. the Epistle.
6 But rather, having dispelled
the mist arising from them, and
being full of shame, shall by re
pentance have unitedboth his soul
and spirit in the obedience of rea
son; then, as Paul says, there is
darken the reason,) in us neither male nor female.
—Q-
The GENERAL EPISTLE OF BARNABAS.
[Barnabas was a companion and fellow preacher with Paul. This Epistle
lays a greater claim to canonical authority than most others. It has
been cited by Clemens Alexandrinus, Origen, Eusebius, and Jerome,
and many ancient Fathers. Cotelerius affirms that Origen and Jerome
esteemed it genuine and canonical ; but Cotelerius himself did not
believe it to be either one or the other; on the contrary, he supposes
it was written for the benefit of the Ebonites (the christianized Jews,)
who were tenacious of rights and ceremonies. Bishop Fell feared to own
expressly what he seemed to be persuaded of, that it ought to be treated
with the same respect as several of the books of the present canon. Dr.
Bernard,Savilian professor at Oxford, notonly believedit to be genuine
but that it was read throughout, in the churches at Alexandria, as the
canonical scriptures were. Dodwell supposed it to have been published
before the Epistle of Jude, and the writings of both the Johns. Vossius,
W
Dupuis, Dr. Cane, Dr. Mill, Dr. S. Clark, Whiston, and Archbisho
e also esteemed it genuine: Menardus, Archbishop }.
Spanheim, and others, deemed it apocryphal.]
CHAP. I.
Preface to the Epistle.
LL happiness to you my sons
and daughters, in the name
of our Lord Jesus Christ, who
loved us, in peace.
2 Having perceived abundance
of knowledge of the great and
1 excellent * laws of God to be in
you, I exceedingly rejoice in your
blessed and admirable * souls, be
cause ye have so worthily received
the grace which was “grafted in
you.
3 For which cause I am full of
joy, hoping the rather to be
* saved ; inasmuch as I truly see
a spirit infused into you, from the
"pure fountain of God :
4 Having this persuasion, and
being fully convinced thereof, be
cause that since I have begun to
speak unto you, I have had a
more than ordinary good success
in the way of ' the law of the
Lord which is in Christ.
5 For which cause *brethren,
I also think verily that I love you
above my own soul: because that
therein dwelleth the greatness of
faith and charity, as also the hope
of that life which is to come.
6 Wherefore considering this,
that if I shall take care to com
municate to you a part of what I
have received, it shall turn to my
reward, "that I have served such
good souls; I gave diligence to
write in a few words unto you;
that together with your faith, your
19 knowledge also may be perfect.
7. There are therefore three
in things ordained by the Lord:
*Honestarum. "AEquitatum, Alkaloparov, righteousjudgments. *Spiri
tibus, Disposition. “Natural, Gr. epºpuyov. See chap. xix. epipvyov 8opeaw
848axms: which the Lat. Int. renders, Naturale donum Doctrinae. Comp
Jam. i. 21. "Liberari: Gr. at videtur aroënval. "Honesto, from the Gr. maNsk.
Comp. Psalm 119, 33, viz. either by preaching or fulfilling the same. * Wid.
Annot. Vos.inloc. *Talibus spiritibus servienti. Usser. "Tvogus. *Aoyuayv
ruptov, Constitutions of the Lord.
143
Preface
the hope of life; "the beginning
and the completion of it,
8 For the Lord hath both de
clared unto us, by the prophets,
those things that * are past; and
* opened to us the beginnings of
those that are to come.
9 Wherefore, it will behove us,
“as he has spoken, to come "more
holily, and nearer to his altar.
10 I therefore, not as a teacher,
but as one "of you, will endeavour
to lay before you a few things by
which youmay, on many accounts,
become the more joyful.
CHAP. II.
That God has abolished the legal sac
rifices to introduce the spiritual
righteousness of the Gospel.
EEING then the days are ex
ceeding evil, andthe adversary
has got the power of this present
"world we ought to give the more
diligence to inquire into the
• righteous judgments of the Lord.
2 * Now the assistants of our
faith are fear and patiente ; our
fellow-combatants, long-suffering
and continence.
3 Whilst these remain pure in
what relates unto the Lord, wis
dom, and understanding, and
science, and knowledge, rejoice
together with them.
4 For God has manifested to us
by all the prophets, that he has no
occasionforour sacrifices, or burnt
offerings, or oblations : saying
thus ; "To what purpose is the
multitude of your sacrifices unto
me, saith the Lord.
5 Iamfull of theburnt-offerings
of rams, and thefat of *fed beasts;
and I delight not in the blood of
bullocks, or of he-goats.
6 * When ye come to appear
before me; who hath required
BARNABAS. continued.
this at your hands? Ye shall no
more tread my courts.
7 Bring no more vain oblations.
incenseis an abomination unto me;
your new moons and sabbaths;
the calling of assemblies I cannot
away with, it is iniquity, even the
solemn meeting ; your new moons
and your appointedfeasts my soul
hateth. -
8 These things therefore hath
God abolished, that the new law
of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is
without the yoke of any such
necessity, might have the spiritual
offering of men themselves.
9 For so the Lord saith agair,
to those heretofore ; *Did I at
all command your fathers when
theycame out of the land of Egypt
concerning burnt offerings of sac
rifices?
10 But this I commanded them,
saying, tº Let none of you imagine
evil in your hearts against his
neighbour, and love no false oath.
11 Forasmuch then as we are
not without understanding, we
ought to apprehend the design "of
our merciful father. For he speaks
to us, being willing that we who
have been in the same error about
the sacrifices, should seek and find
how to approach unto him.
12 And therefore he thus be
speaks us, "The sacrifice ofGod(is
a broken spirit,) a broken and con
trite heart God will not despise.
13 Wherefore brethren, we
ought the more diligently to in
quire after those things that be
long to our salvation, that the
adversary may not have any en
trance into us, and deprive us of
our spiritual life.
14 Wherefore he again speak
eth to them, concerning these
*Wiz, faith and Charity. See before. * Namely, which we are to believe.
*That is, which are to be hoped for, and end in love. “Given us to know.
* Honestius et Altius : the more honestly and highly. "Like yourselves. "In
many things. * *#. *Equitus. "Comp. Graec. Clem. Alex. " Isaiah
1.11. “Lambs. *Isaiah, i. 12, 13, 14. *Jer. vii. 22, 23. *Zach. viii. 17.
* Of the mercy of Our Father. 17 Psalm i. 19.
144
Prophecies in Daniel
things; Ye shall not fast as ye
do this day, to make your voice to
be heard on high.
15 Is it such a fast that I have
chosen? a day for a man to afflict
his soul? 2 Is it to bow down his
head like a bulrush, and to spread
sackcloth and ashes under him!
Wilt thou call this a fast, and an
acceptable day to the Lord?
16 But to us he saith on this
wise. 8 Is not this the fast that I
have chosen, to loose the bands of
wickedness, to undo the heavy bur
dens, and to let the oppressed go
free; and that ye break every
yoke
17 4 Is it not to deal thy bread
to the hungry, and that thou bring
the poor that are cast out to thy
house ? Whenthou seestthe naked
that thou cover him, and that
thou hide not thyself from thine
own flesh.
18 "Then shall thy light break
forth as the morning, and thy
health shallspring forth speedily;
and thy righteousness shall go be
fore thee, the glory of the Lord
shall be thy reward.
19 8Then shalt thou call and
the Lord shall answer; thou shalt
cry and he shall say, Here I am.
If thou put away from the midst
of thee the yoke, the putting forth
of the finger,and speaking vanity;
7 and if thou draw out thy soul to
thehungry; and satisfy the afflict
ed soul.
20 In this therefore brethren,
God has manifested his 8 fore
knowledge and loveforus; because
the people which he has purchased
to his beloved Son were to believe
tn * sincerity; and therefore he has
shewn these things to all of us,that
we should not run as proselytes to
19the Jewish law.
| Isa. lviii. 4. *W. 5. 3W. 6.
* Simplicity. "Their.
4V.7.
BARNABAS.
11 Histantibus : read Instantidus.
concerning Christ, &c.
CHAP. III.
The prophecies of Daniel, concerning the
ten kings, and the coming of Christ.
HEREFORE it is necessa
ry that searching diligently
into those "things which are near
to come to pass, we should write
to you what may serve to keep
you whole.
2 To which end, let us flee from
every evil work and hate the
errors of the present time, that we
may be 1” happy in that which is
to come :
3 Let us not give ourselves the
liberty ofdisputing with the wick
ed and sinners ; lest we should
chance in time to become like unto
them.
4 For the consummation of 18sin
is come, as it is written, as the pro
phet Daniel says. And for this
end the Lord hath shortened the
times and the days, that his be
loved might hasten his coming to
his inheritance.
5 For so the prophet speaks;
14There shall ten kings reign in the
heart, and there shall rise last of
all another little one, and he shall
humble three kings.
6 And again Daniel speaks in
like manner concerning the king
doms ; 16 and I saw the fourth
beast dreadful and terrible, and
strong exceedingly; and it hadten
horns, 10 I considered the horns,
and behold there came up among
them another little horn, before
which were three of the first horns
plucked up by the roots.
7 We ought therefore to under
stand this also : And I beseech
you as one of your own brethren,
loving you all beyond my own life,
that you look well to yourselves,
and be not like to those whol? add
5.W. 8, 0 W. 9. 7.W. 10. 8 Providence.
12 Beloved.
* Temptation. Dan. ix. “Dan. vii. i* W. 7. *W. 8. " Heap up sins.
19 145
That Christ was
sin to sin, and say: That their
covenant is ours also. Nay, but
it is ours only : for they have for
everlost that which Mosesreceived.
8 For thus saith the Scripture:
And Moses continued fasting
forty days and forty nights in the
Mount; and he received the cove
nant from the Lord, even the two
tables of stone, written by the
hand of God.
9 But havingturned themselves
to idols they lost it; as the Lord
also said to Moses; Moses, *go
down quickly, for thy people
which thou hast brought forth out
of Egypt, have corrupted them
selves, and turned aside from the
way which I commanded them.
* And Moses cast the two tables
out of his hands: and their cove
nant was broken; that the love of
Jesus might be sealed in your
hearts, unto the hope of his faith.
10 Wherefore let us give heed
unto the last times. For all the
*time past of our life, and our
faith will profit us nothing; unless
we continue to hate what is evil,
and to withstand thefuture temp
tations. So the Son of God tells
us; Let us resist all iniquity and
hate it.
11 Wherefore consider the
works of the evil way. * Do not
withdraw yourselves from others,
as if you were already justified;
but coming altogether into one
place, inquire what is agreeable
to and profitable for the beloved
of God. For the Scripture saith;
“Wo unto them that are wise in
their own eyes, and prudent in
their sight.
12 Let us become spiritual, a
perfect temple to God. As much
as in us lies let us meditate upon
the fear of God; and strive to the
* Exod. xxxi. xxxiv.
* Heb. x. 25.
"Matt. xxii. 14.
BARNABAS.
* Exod. xxxvii. 7. Deut. ix. 12.
* Wid. Gr. Clem. Alex. Isa. v., 21.
to suffer, proved.
utmost of our power to keep his
commandments; that we may re
joice in his righteous judgments.
13 For God will judge the
world without respect of persons:
and every one shall receive ac
cording to his works. -
14 If a man shall be good, his
righteousness shall go before him;
if wicked, the reward of his wick
edness shall follow him.
16 Take heed therefore lest
sitting still, now that we are call
ed, we fall asleep in our sins; and
the wicked one getting the domi
nion over us, stir us up, 7 and
shut us out of the kingdom of the
Lord.
16 Consider this also: although
you have seen so great signs and
wonders done among the people
of the Jews,yet this notwithstand
ing the Lord hath forsaken them.
17 Beware therefore, lest it
happen to us ; as it is written.
* There may be many called, but
few chosen.
CHAP. IV.
That Christ was to suffer: proved from
the prophecies concerning him.
OR this cause did our Lord
vouchsafe to give up his body
to destruction, that through the
forgiveness of our sins we might
be sanctified; that is, by the
sprinkling of his blood.
2 Now for what concerns the
things that are written about him,
some belong to the people of the
Jews, and some to us.
3 For thus saith the Scripture:
* He was wounded for our trans
gressions, he was bruised for our
iniquities, and by his blood we are
healed. He was led as a lamb to
the slaughter, and as a sheep be
fore his shearers is dumb, so he
opened not his mouth.
* Isa. lii 5–7.
* W. 19 “Days.
* Matt. xxv. 7–10.
146
from prophectes
4. Wherefore we ought the more
to give thanks unto God, for that
he hath both declared unto us
what is passed,” and not suffered
us to be without understanding of
those things that are to come.
5 But to them he saith ; * The
nests are not unjustly spread for
the birds.
6 This he spake, because a man
will justly perish, if having the
knowledge of the way of truth, he
shall nevertheless not refrain him
self from the way of darkness.
7 And for this cause the Lord
wascontent to suffer for our souls,
although he be the Lord of the
whole earth ; to whom God said
before the beginning of the world,
* Let us make man after our own
image and likeness.
8 Now how he suffered for us,
seeing it was by men that he un
derwent it, “I will shew you.
9 The prophets having received
from him the gift of prophecy,
spake before concerning him:
10 But he, that he might abo
lish death, and make known the
resurrection from the dead, was
content, as it was necessary, to ap
pear in the flesh, that he might
make good the promise before
given to our fathers, and preparing
himself a new people, might de
monstrate to them whilst he was
upon earth, that after the resur
rection he would judge the
world.
11 And finally teaching the
people of Israel, and doing many
wonders and signs among them,
he preached to them, and shewed
the exceeding great love which he
bare towards them.
1 Wid. Ed. Ox. . 21. *Prov. i. 17.
BARNABAS. concernvng him
12 And when he chose his apos
tles, which were afterwards to pub
lish his Gospel, he took men who
had been very great sinners; that
thereby he might plainly shew, "
That he came not to call the right
eous but sinners to repentance.
13 Then he clearly manifested
himself to be the Son of God.
For had he not come in the flesh,
how should men have been able to
look upon him, that they might be
saved
14 Seeing if they beheld only
the sun, which was the work of
his hands, and shall hereafter cease
to be, they are not able to endure
stedfastly to look against the rays
of it.
15 Wherefore the Son of God
came in the flesh for this cause,
that he might fill up the measure
of their iniquity, who have perse
cuted his prophets unto death.
And for the same reason also he
suffered.
16 For God hath said of the
"stripes ofhis flesh, that they were
from them. And, 'I will smite the
shepherd, and the sheep of the
flock shall be scattered.
17 Thus he would suffer, be
cause it behoved him to suffer
upon the cross.
18 For thus one saith, prophe
sying concerning him; "Spare my
soul from the sword. And again,
Pierce my flesh from thy fear.
19 And again, the congregation
of wicked doers rose up against
me, "(They have pierced my hands
and my feet).
20 And again he saith, I gave
my back to the Smiters, " and my
face I set as an hard rock.
5 Matt. ix. 13.
* Gen. i. 26. *Learn.
*Namely, from the Jews. 7 Zach. xiii. 6,7. * According to the LXX. Psalin
xxii. 20. Psalm crix. 120. Psalm xxii. 16, 17. 9These words were doubt
less cited thus by Barnabas, because that without them, those foregoing de
not prove the Crucifixion of Christ. But through the repetition of the
same preposition, this latter part was so early omitted, that it was not in
the Latin interpreter's copy. 19 Isaiah l. 6.
147
prophecies concerning
CHAP. W.
The subject continued.
ND when he had fulfilled
the commandment of God,
What says he?' Who will contend
with me? Let him stand against
me: or who is he that will implead
me? Let him draw near to the
servant of the Lord. Wo be to
you! ” Because ye shall all wax
old as a garment, the moth shall
eat you up.
2 And again the prophet adds,
• He is put for a stone for stumb
ling. “Behold I lay in Zion for a
foundation, a precious stone, a
choice corner stone ; an honour
able stone. And what follows 7
And he that hopeth in him shall
live for ever.
3 What then | Is our hope
built upon a stone? God forbid.
But because the Lord hath * har
dened his flesh against sufferings,
he saith, "I have put me as a firm
rock.
4 And again the prophet adds;
* The stone which the builders
refused has become the head of the
corner. And again he saith ;
* This is the great and wonderful
day which the Lord hath made.
* I write these things the more
plainly to you that ye may under
stand: ” For indeed I could be
content even to die for your sakes.
5 But what saith the prophet
again? in The counsel of the wick
ed encompassed me about. ” They
came about me, as bees about the
honey-comb : and, * Upon my
westure they cast lots.
6 Forasmuch then asour Saviour
wresto appearin theflesh and suffer,
his passion was hereby foretold.
7 For thus saith the prophet
BARNABAS. Christ's sufferings.
against Israel: 14 Wo be to their
soul, because they have taken
wicked counsel against themselves,
saying, let us 1° lay snares for the
righteous, because he is unprofit
able to us.
8 Moses also in like manner
speaketh to them ; 10 Behold thus
saith the Lord God; Enter ye
into the good land of which the
Lord hath sworn to Abraham, and
Isaac, and Jacob, that he would
give it you, and possess it ; a land
flowing with milk and honey.
9 Now what the spiritual mean
ing of this is, learn; 17It is as if it
had been said, Put your trust in
Jesus, who shall be manifested to
you in the flesh. For man is the
earth which suffers : forasmuch as
out of the 18 substance of the earth
Adam was formed.
10 What therefore does he
mean when he says, Into a good
land flowing with milk and honey?
Blessed be our Lord, who has
given us wisdom, and a heart to
understand his secrets. For so
says the prophet, 19 Who shall un
derstand the hard sayings of the
Lord { *0 But he that is wise, and
intelligent, and that loves his Lord.
11 Seeing therefore he has re
newed us by the remission of our
sins, he has 91 put us into another
frame, that we should have souls
2” like those of children, forming
us again himself” by the spirit.
12 For thus the scripture saith
concerning us, * where it intro
duceth the Father speaking to the
Son; * Let us make man after our
likeness and similitude ; and let
them have dominion over the beasts
of the earth, and over the fowls of
the air, and the fish of the sea.
*Isa. 1, 8, 9...” Rep. In. *Isa. viii. 14. *Isa. xxviii. 16. "Gr. put in strength,
or strengthened. ." Isa. l. 7. "Ps. cxviii. 22. *V. 24. Clem. Alex. Strom. v.
*This is not in the Old Latin Wersion.
rus ayatſms upov. *Ps. xxii. 16. 12 Ps. cxviii. 12.
* Vid. Ed. Ox. p. 29. a. mreoumia
13 Ps. xxii. 18. 14 Is. iii. 9.
*Bind. "Exod. xxxiii.l. "Wid. Cot. An. Marg. ex Clem. Alex. 18mpoororou.
19Qsee, xiv. ult. ” Prov. i. 6. Ec. i. 10. * Gr. madeusanotherform. * Wid. Ed.
Ox. p. 30. b. * Wid. Wet. Lat. In. *As he saith to the Son. * Gen. i. 26. &c.
148
The scape-goat
13 And when the Lord saw the
man which he had formed, that
behold he was very good; he said,
* Increase and multiply, and re
plenish the earth. And this he
spake to his son.
14 I will now shew you, how
he made us * a new creature, in the
latter days.
15 The Lord saith; "Behold I
will make the last as the first.
Wherefore the prophet thus spake,
*Enter into the land flowing with
milk and honey, and have domi
nion over it.
16 Wherefore ye see how we
are again formed anew ; as also
he speaks by another prophet;
* Behold saith the Lord, I will
take from them, that is, from those
whom the spirit of the Lord fore
saw, their hearts of stone, and I
will put into them hearts of flesh.
17 Because he was about to be
made manifest in the flesh and to
dwell in us.
18 For, my brethren, the habi
tation of our heart is a "holy tem
ple unto the Lord. For the Lord
saith again. " In what place shall
I appear before the Lord my God,
and be glorified?
19 He answers I will confess
unto thee in the congregation in
the midst of my brethren; and
will sing unto thee in the church
of the saints.
20 Wherefore we are they
whom he has brought into that
good land.
21 * But what signifies the milk
and honey" Because as the child
is nourished first with milk, and
then with honey; so we being
kept alive by the belief of his pro
mises, and his word, shall live and
bave dominion over the land.
* Gen. i. 28. * Gr, a second formation. *Isa. xliii. 18, 19, &c.
BARNABAS. typical of Christ
22 Forheforetoldabove,saying,
increase and multiply, andhave do
minion over the fishes, etc.
23 But who is there that is now
able to have this dominion over
the wild beasts, or fishes, or fowls
of the air For you know that to
rule is to have power, that a man
should be set over what he rules.
24 But forasmuch as this we
have not now, he tells us when we
shall have it; namely, when we
shall become perfect, that we may
be made the inheritors of the co
venant of the Lord.
CHAP. VI.
The scape-goat an evident type of this.
NDERSTAND then my be:
loved children, that the good
God hath before manifested all
things unto us, that we might
know to whom we ought always
to give thanks and praise.
2 If therefore the Son of God
who is the Lord of all, and shall
come to judge both the quick and
dead, hath suffered, that by his
stripes we might live: let us be
lieve that the Son of God could
not have suffered but for us. But
being crucified, they gave him
vinegar and gall to drink.
3 Heartherefore howthe priests
of thetempledid foreshew this also:
* the Lord by his command which
º was written, declared that whoso
ever did not fast the appointed
fast he 10 should die the death :
because he also was himself one
day to offer up his 11 body for our
sins; that so the type of what was
done in 1* Isaac might be fulfilled,
who was offered upon the altar.
4 What therefore is it that he
says by the prophet? “And let
them eat of the goat which is
offered in the day of the fast for
* Heb. iii.
* Ezek. xi. 19. "So St. Paul, 1 Cor. iii. 16, 17. 7 Psa. xlii. 2. *Jer. xxxii. 22.
*In same manner applied Heb. ix. "Lev. xxiii. 29. *The vessel of his spirit
* Gen. xxii. * Numb. xxix., &c., Vic. Cot. in Marg. et Annot. in loc.
149
Christ typified
all their sins. Hearken diligently,
(my brethren,) and all the priests,
and they only shall eat the in
wards not washed with vinegar.
5 Why so because 1 I know
that when I shall hereafter offer
my flesh for the sins of a new
people, ye will give me vinegar to
drink mixed with gall; therefore
do ye only eat, the people fasting
the while, and lamenting in sack
cloth and ashes.
6 And that he might foreshew
that he was to suffer for them, hear
then how he appointed it.
7 *Take, says he, two goats,
fair and alike, and offer them, and
let the high priest take one of
them for a burnt-offering. And
what must be done with the other?
Let it says he be accursed.
8 Consider how exactly this
appears to have been a type of
Jesus. * And let all the congre
gation spit upon it, and prick it ;
and put the scarlet wool about its
head, and thus let it be carried
forth into the wilderness.
9 And this being done, he that
was appointed to convey the goat,
led it into the wilderness, * and
took away the scarlet wool, and put
it upon a thornbush,whose "young
sprouts when we find them in the
field we are wont to eat : so the
fruit of that thorn only is sweet.
10 And to what end was this
ceremony'ſ Consider; one was
offered upon the altar, the other
was accursed.
11 And why was thatwhich was
accursed crowned Because they
shall see Christ in that day having
a scarlet garment about his body;
and shall say: Is not this he whom
we crucified; having despised him
pierced him, mocked him? Cer
1 Wid. Annot. Cot. *Levit. xi. Wid.
BARNABAS. by the red heifer.
ſº this is he, who then said,
that he was the Son of God.
12 °As therefore he shall be
then like to what he was on earth,
so were the Jews heretofore com
manded, to take two goats fair and
equal. Thatwhen they shallsee (our
Saviour) hereafter coming (in the
clouds of heaven), they may be
amazed at thelikeness of the goats.
13 Wherefore 7 ye here again
See a type of Jesus who was to
suffer for us.
14 But what then signifies this.
That the wool was to be put into
the midst of the thorns !
15 This also is a figure of Jesus,
set out to the church. For as he
who would take away the scarlet
wool must undergo many difficul
ties, because that thorn was very
sharp, and with difficulty get it:
* So they says Christ, that will see
me, and come to my kingdom,
must through many afflictions and
troubles attain unto me.
CHAP. VII.
The red heifer, another type of Christ.
UT what * type do ye suppose
it to have been, where it is
commanded 19 to the people of Is
rael, that grown persons in whom
sins are come toperfection, should
offer an heifer, and after they had
killed it should burn the same.
2. But then young men should
take up the ashes and put them in
vessels; and tie a piece of Scarlet
wool and hyssop upon a stick, and
so the young men should sprinkle
every one of the people, and they
should be clear from their sins?
3 Consider how all these are
delivered in all figure to us.
4 This heifer is Jesus Christ;
the wicked men that were to offer
it are those sinners who brought
Maimon, tract. de die Exp. Edit du
Weil, p. 350,&c. * Vid. Edit. Ox. p. 40. a. 41. b. “Wid. Maim. ib. p. 341, &c.
* Wid. Voss, in loc. *The Greek is imperfect. "Wid. Lat Wer. * Acts xiv. 22.
• Numb. xix. 10 That this was also a type of Christ, see Heb. ix. 13. * Wid.
Wet. Lat. Interpr. Simplicity, Gr.
150
Of the circumcision
him to death : who afterwards
have no more to do with it ; the
sinners have no more the honour
of handling of it :
5 But the young men that per
formed the sprinkling, signified
those who preach to us theforgive
ness of sins and the purification of
the heart, to whom the Lord gave
authority to preach his Gospel:
being at the beginning twelve, "to
signify the tribes, because there
were twelve tribes of Israel.
6 But why were there three
young men appointed to sprinkle?
To denote Abraham, and Isaac,
and Jacob, because they were
great before God.
7 And why was the wool put
upon a "stick? Because the king
dom of Jesus was founded upon
the cross ; and therefore they
that put their trust in him, shall
live for ever.
8 But why was the wool and
hyssop put together ? To signify
that in the kingdom ofChristthere
shall be evil and filthy days, in
which however we shall be saved;
and * because he that has any
disease in the flesh by some filthy
humours is cured by hyssop.
9 Wherefore these things being
thus done, are tousindeedevident,
but to the “Jews they are obscure;
because they hearkened not unto
the voice of the Lord.
CHAP. WIII.
Of the circumcision of the ears; and how
tº the first institution of circumcision
Abraham mystically foretold Christ
hy name.
N D therefore the Scripture
again speaks concerning our
ears, that God has circumcised
them, together with our hearts.
BARNABAS. of the ears.
For thus saith the Lord by the
holy prophet : * By the hearing of
the ear they obeyed me.
2 And again, "They who are
afar off, shall hear and understand
what things I have done. And
again, " Circumcise your hearts,
saith the Lord.
3 And again he saith, * Hear
O Israel! For thus saith the Lord
thy God. And again the Spirit of
God prophesieth, saying: "Who
is there that would live for ever,
"let him hear the voice of my Son.
4 And again, 11 Hear O Heaven
and give ear O Earth ! Because
the Lord has spoken these things
for a witness.
5 And again he saith "Hear
the word of the Lord, ye princes
of the people. And again, “Hear
O Children | The voice of one cry
ing in the wilderness.
6 Wherefore he has circum
cised our ears that we should hear
his word, and believe. But as for
that circumcision, in which the
Jews trust, it is abolished. For the
circumcision of which God spake,
was not of the flesh;
7 But they have transgressed
his commands, because the evil
* one hath deceived them. For
thus God bespeaks them; * Thus
saith the Lord your God (Here I
find the new law) Sow not among
thorns; but circumcise yourselves
to the Lord your God. And
what doth he mean by this say
ing | Hearken unto your Lord.
8 And again he saith, "Cir
cumcise the hardness of your
heart, and harden not your neck.
And again, " Behold, saith the
Lord, all the nations are uncir
cumcised, (they have not lost their
"Gr. to testify. * Wood. * Wid. Coteler in loc. “Them. ‘Septuag.
Psalm xvii. 45. *Isaiah, xxxiii. 13. "Jer. iv. 4. "Jer. vii. 2. * Psalms
rxxiii. xxxiv. *Isaiah, l. 10. *Isaiah, i. 2. *Isaiah, i. 10. *Isaiah,
al. 3. * Angel. * Jer. iv. 3, 4. 19 Jer. iv. 4. 17 Deut. x. 16.
151
Spiritual meaning
fore-skin): but this people is un
circumcised in heart.
9 But you will say 1 the Jews
were circumcised for a sign. "And
so are all the Syrians and Arabi
ans, and all the idolatrous priests:
but are they therefore of the cove
nant of Israel? And even the
Egyptians themselves are circum
cised.
10 Understand therefore, chil
dren, these things more fully, that
Abraham, who was the first that
brought in circumcision, looking
forward in the Spirit to Jesus,
circumcised, having received the
mystery of three letters.
11 For the scripture says that
Abraham circumcised three hun
dred and eighteen men of his
house. * But what therefore was
the mystery that was made known
unto him 7
12 Mark, first the eighteen, and
next the three hundred. For the
numeral letters of ten and eight
are I H. And these denote Jesus.
13 And because the cross was
that by which we were to find
grace; therefore he adds, three
hundred ; the note of which is T
(the figure of his cross). Where
fore by two letters he signified
Jesus, and by the third his cross.
14 He who has put the engraft
ed gift of his doctrine within us,
knows that I never taught to any
one a more “certain truth; but I
trust that ye are worthy of it.
CHAP. IX.
That the commands of Moses concerning
clean and unclean beasts, &c., were all
designed for a spiritual signification.
UT why did Moses say ‘Ye
shall not eat of the swine,
* That people.
BARNABAS. of clean and unclean.
neither the eagle nor the hawk;
nor the crow ; nor any fish that
has not a scale upon him — I
answer, that in the spiritual sense,
he comprehended three doctrines,
that were to be "gathered from
thence.
2 Besideswhichhe says to them
in the book of Deuteronomy, And
I will give my statutes unto this
people. Wherefore it is not the
command of God that they shauld
not eat these things; but Moses
in the spirit spake unto them.
3 Now the sow he forbad them,
to eat; meaning thus much ;
thou shalt not join thyself to such
persons as are like unto swine;
who whilst they live in pleasure,
forget their God; but when any
want pinches them, then they
know the Lord; as the sow when
she is full knows not her master ;
but when she is hungry she makes
a noise; and being again fed, is
silent.
4 Neither, says he, shalt thou
eat the eagle, nor the hawk, nor
the kite, nor the crow ; that is
thou shalt not keep company with
such kind of men as know not
how by their labour and sweat to
get themselves food; but injuri
ously ravish away the things of
others ; and watch how to lay
snares for them ; when at the
same time they appear to live in
perfect innocence.
5 (. So these birds alone seek
not food for themselves, but) sit
ting idle seek how they may eat
of the flesh others have provided ;
being destructive through their
wickedness.
6 Neither, says he, shalt thou
* Vid. Cot. in loc. conter. Orig. ad Rom. cap. ii. 25.
* That º others of the ancient Fathers have concurred with him in this,
O
see Cot. in c. Add. Eund. p. 34.85, ibid, Ed., &c.,&c. 5That
*Genuine.
in this he goes on the received opinion ofthe RR. Vid. Annot. Cot, andEd.
Ox in loc. Lev. xi. Deut. xiv. Add. Ainsworth on Lev. xi. 1, and Deut.
xiv. 4. 6 In the understanding. Deut. iv. 'Vid. antiq. Lat. Vera.
152
beasts under the
eat the lamprey, nor the polypus,
nor the cuttle-fish ; that is, thou
shalt not be like such men, by
using to converse with them; who
are altogether wicked and ad
judged to death. For so those
fishes are alone accursed, and wal
low in the mire, nor swim as other
fishes, but tumble in the dirt at
the bottom of the deep.
7 But he adds, neither shalt
thou eat of the hare. To what
end ?–To signify this to us;
Thou shalt not be an adulterer;
nor liken thyself to such persons.
For the hare every year multiplies
the places of its conception; and
as many years as it lives, so many
it has.
8 Neither shalt thou eat of the
hyena ; that is, again, be not an
adulterer, nor a corrupter of
others; neither be like to such.
And wherefore so 7–Because that
creature every year changes its
kind, and is sometimes male and
sometimes female.
9 For which cause also he just
ly hated the weazel; to the end
that they should not be like such
persons who with their mouths
commit wickedness by reason of
their uncleanness; nor join them
selves with those impure women,
who with their mouths commit
wickedness. Because that animal
conceives with its mouth.
10 Moses, therefore, speaking
as concerning meats, delivered
indeed three great precepts to
them in the spiritual signification
of those commands. But they
according to the desires of the
flesh, understood him as if he had
only meant it of meats.
11 And therefore David took
aright the knowledge of his three
fold command, saying in like
unanner :
12 Blessed is the man that
hath not walked in the counsel of
BARNABAS. law of Moses.
the ungodly; as the fishes before
mentioned in the bottom of the
deep in darkness.
13 Nor stood in the way of
sinners, as they who seem to
fear the Lord, but yet sin, as the
SOW.
14 And hath not sat in the seat
of the scorners; as those birds
who sit and watch that they may
devour.
15 Here you have the law con
cerning meat perfectly set forth,
and according to the true know
ledge of it.
16 But, says Moses, ye shall
eat all that divideth the hoof, and
cheweth the cud. Signifying
thereby such an one as having
taken his food, knows him that
nourisheth him; and resting upon
him, rejoiceth in him.
17 And in this he spake well,
having respect to the command.
ment. What, therefore, is it that
he says —That we should hold
fast to them that fear the Lord ;
with those who meditate on the
command of the word which they
have received in their heart;
with those that declare the righte
ous judgments of the Lord, and
keep his commandments;
18 In short, with those who
know that to meditate is a work of
pleasure, and therefore exercise
themselves in the word of the
Lord.
19 But why might they eat
those that clave the hoof?—Be
cause the righteous liveth in this
present world; but his expecta
tion is fixed upon the other. See,
brethren, how admirably Moses
commanded these things.
20 But how should we thus
know all this, and understand it !
We, therefore, understanding a
right the commandments, speak as
the Lord would have us. Where
fore he has circumcised our ears
20 153
Baptism and
and our hearts, that we might
know these things.
CIIAP. X.
Baptism and the Cross of Christ fore
told in figures under the law.
ET us now inquire whether
the Lord took care to mani
fest anything beforehand concern
ing water and the cross.
2 Now for the former of these,
it is written to the people of Israel
how they shall not receive that
baptism which brings to forgive
ness of sins; but shall institute
another to themselves thatcannot.
3 For thus saith the prophet:
* Be astonished, O Heaven l and
let the earth tremble at it, because
this people have done two great
and wicked things; they have left
me, the fountain of living water,
and have digged for themselves
broken cisterns, that can hold no
water.
4 Is my holy mountain a "Zion,
a desolate wilderness?—” For ye
shall be as a young bird when its
nest is taken away.
5 And again the prophet saith,
“I will go before thee, and will
make plain the mountains, and
will break the gates of brass, and
will snap in sunder the bars of
iron ; and will give thee dark,
and hidden, and invisible trea
sures, that they may know that I
am the Lord God.
6 And again : He shall dwell
*in the high den of the strong
rock. And then, what follows in
the same prophet? His water is
faithful ; ye shall see the king
with glory, and your soul shall
learn the fear of the Lord.
7 And again he saith in ano
*Jeremiah, ii. 12. "Wid. Annot. Coteler, and Ed. Oxon. in loc.
BARNABAS. the cross of Christ.
ther prophet : He that does these
things; "shall be like a tree,
planted by the currents of water,
which shall give its fruit in its
season. Its leaf also shall not
wither, and whatsoever he doth
it shall prosper.
8. As for the wicked it is not so
with them; but they are as the
dust which the wind scattereth
away from the face of the earth.
9 Therefore the ungodly shall
not stand in the judgment, neither
the sinners in the council of the
righteous. For the Lord knoweth
the way of the righteous, and the
way of the ungodly shall perish.
10 Consider how he hasjoined
both the cross and the water to
gether.
11 For this he saith : Blessed
are they who put their trust in the
cross, descend into the water; for
they shall have their reward in
due time ; then, saith he, will I
give it them.
12 But as concerning the pre
sent time, he saith, their leaves
shall not fall; meaning therely
that every word that shall go out
of your mouth, shall through faith
and charity be to the conversion
and hope of many.
13 In like manner doth another
prophet speak. "And the land
of Jacob was the praise of all the
earth; * magnifying thereby "the
vessel of his spirit.
14 And what follows 7–And
there was a river running on the
right hand, and beautiful trees
grew up by it; and he that shall
eat of them shall, live for ever.
The signification of which is this:
that we go down into the water
full of sins and pollutions ; but
*Isaiah,
xvi. 1, 2. ‘Isaiah xlv. 2. *Isaiah, xxxiii. 16, 17. "Psalm i. 7 Zeph. iii. 19.
"For rero Aeyes and o, the Old Interpreter did not read ; and Clemens
Alex. lib. iii. Strom. p. 463, transcribing this passage hath them not.
"i.e., the body of Christ.
154
foretold under
come up again, bringing forth
fruit; having in our hearts the
fear and hope which is in Jesus,
by the spirit. And whosoever
shall eat of them shall live for
eVer.
15 That is, whosoever shall
hearken to those who call them,
and shall believe, shall live for
over.
CHAP. XI.
The subject continued.
like manner he determines
concerning the cross in ano
ther prophet, saying: And when
shall these things be fulfilled?
2 The Lord answers : When
the tree that has fallen shall rise,
and when blood shall drop down
from the tree. Here you have
again mention made, both of the
cross, and of him that was to be
crucified upon it.
3 * And yet farther he saith by
Moses; (when Israel was fighting
with, and beaten by, a strange
people; to the end that God might
put * them in mind how that for
their sins they were delivered unto
death) yea, the holy spirit put it
into the heart of Moses, to repre
sent both the sign of the cross,
and of him that was to suffer;
that so they might know that if
they did not believe in him, they
should be overcome for ever.
4 Moses therefore ‘piled up
armour upon armour in the mid
dle of a rising ground, and stand
ing up high above all of them,
stretched forth his arms, and so
Israel again conquered.
5 But no sooner did helet down
his hands, but they were again
PARNABAS. the law
slain. And why so –To the end
they might know, that except they
trust in him they cannot be saved.
6 And in another prophet, he
saith, "I have stretched out my
hands all the day long to a people
disobedient, and speaking against
my righteous way.
7 And again Moses makes a
* type of Jesus, to show that he
was to die, and then that he, whom
they thought to be dead, was to
give life to others; in the ' type
of * those that fell in Israel.
8 For God caused all sorts of
serpents to bite them, and they
died; forasmuch as by a serpent
transgression began in Eve: that
so he might convince them that
for their transgressions they shall
be delivered into the pain of
death.
9 Moses then himself, who had
commanded them, saying, * Ye
shall not make to yourselves any
graven or molten image, to be
your God; yet now did so him
self, that he might represent to
them the figure of the Lord Jesus.
10 For he made a brazen ser
pent, and set it up on high, and
called the people together by a
proclamation ; where being come,
they entreated Moses that he
would make an atonement for
them, and pray that they might
be healed.
11 Then Moses spake unto
them, saying: when any one
among you shall be bitten, let
him come unto the serpent that is
set upon the pole ; and let him
assuredly trust in him, thatthough
he be dead, yet he is able to give
life, and presently he shall be
* Wid. Conject. Edit. Oxon. Comp. iv. Esdr. v. 4, et Obs. Cotel in loc.
*See St. Hier. in like manner. Annot. D. Bernard, p. 124, Edit. Oxon.
Exod. xvii. *That were so beaten. * Again set them in array, bein
armed. Lat. Wers. * Isaiah, lxv. 2. "So Irenaeus, Just. Mart. St.
Chrysost., &c. Vid. Edit. Oxon. p. 77, a. * Sign. * Israel falling.
"Deut. xvii. 15.
155
God's promises
saved; and so they did. See
therefore how here also you have
in this the glory ofJesus; and that
* in him and to him are all things.
12 Again; What says Moses
to Jesus the Son of Nun, when
he gave that name unto him, as
being a prophet that all the peo
ple might hear him alone, *be
cause the father did manifest all
things concerning his son Jesus,
in "Jesus the Son of Nun; and
gave him that name when he sent
him to spy out the land of Ca
naan; ‘he said: Take a book in
thine hands, and write what the
Lord saith : Forasmuch as Jesus
the Son of God shall in the last
days cut off by the roots all the
house of Amalek. See here again
Jesus, not the son of man, but the
Son of God, made manifest in a
type and in the flesh.
13 But because it might here
after be said, that Christ was the
Son of David; “therefore David
fearing and well knowing the
errors of the wicked, saith; "the
Lord said unto my Lord, sit thou
on my right hand until I make
thine enemies thy footstool.
14 And again Isaiah speaketh
on this wise. The Lord said unto
'Christ my Lord, I have laid hold
on his right hand, that the nations
should obey before him,and I will
break the strength of kings.
15 Behold, how doth 8 David
and Isaiah call him Lord,and the
Son of God.
CHAP. XII.
The promise of God not made to the Jews
only, but to the Gentiles also, and ful.
filled to us by Jesus Christ.
UT let us go yet farther,and
inquire whether this people
* Rom. xi. 36.
Mart., &c. Vid. Edit. Oxon. page 79.
14. “Comp. Wet. Lat. Interp.
* Gen. xxv. 21.
BARNABAS.
* Deut. xviii. 15,
* Psalm cir. 3. 7
loc. Edit. Oxon. page 78, c. Isaiah, xlv. 1.
Comp. St. Paul, Rom. ix. Just. Mart. Tert. &c. Wid.
made to
be the heir, or the former; and
whether the covenant be with us
or with them.
2 And first, as concerning the
people, hear now what the Scrip
ture saith.
3 *Isaac prayed for his wife Re
bekah, because she was barren; and
she conceived. Afterwards Rebe
kah went forth to inquire of the
Lord.
4 And the Lord said unto her;
There are two nationsinthy womb,
and two people shall come from
thy body; and the one shall have
power over the other, and the
greater shall serve the lesser. Un
derstand here who was Isaac; who
Rebekah; andofwhom it was fore
told, this people shall be greater
than that.
5 And in another prophecy Ja
cob speaketh more clearly to his
son Joseph saying ; "Behold the
Lord hath not deprived me of see
ing thy face, bring me thy sons
that I may bless them. And he
brought unto his father * Ma
nasseh and Ephraim, desiring that
he should bless Manasseh, because
he was the elder.
6 Therefore Joseph brought
him to the right hand of his father
Jacob. But Jacob by the spirit
foresaw the figure of the people
that was to come.
7 And what saith the Scrip
ture? And Jacob crossed his
hands, and put his right hand up
on Ephraim, his second, and the
younger son, and blessed him.
And Joseph said unto Jacob; Put
thy right hand upon the head of
Manasseh, for he is my first-born
son. And Jacob said unto Jo
seph; I know it, my son, I know
it; but the greater shall serve
18. * So the other Fathers. Just.
* Wid. Interp. Wet. Lat. Exod. xvii.
id. Annot. Coteler, in
* Comp. Wet. Lat. Inte
Oxon. p. 11, a. " Gen. xlviii. * Wid. Lat. Interp. Wet.
156
the Gentiles, and
the lesser; though he also shall
be blessed.
8 Ye see of whom he appointed
it, that they should be the first
people, and heirs of the covenant.
9 If therefore God shall have
yet farther taken notice of this by
Abraham too ; our understanding
of it will then be perfectly estab
lished.
10 What then saith the Scrip
ture to Abraham, when he "be
lieved, and it was imputed unto
him for righteousness? Behold I
have made thee a father of the
nations, which without circumci
sion believe in the Lord.
11 Let us therefore now inquire
whether God has fulfilled the cove
nant, which hesware to ourfathers,
that he would give this people
Yes, verily, he gave it: but they
were not worthy to receive it by
reason of their sins.
12 For thus saith the prophet:
*And Moses continued fasting in
mount Sinai, to receive the cove
nant of the Lord with the people,
forty days and forty nights.
13 *And he received of the
Lord two tables written with the
finger of the Lord's hand in the
Spirit. And Moses when he had
received them brought them down
that he might deliver them to the
people.
14 And the Lord said unto
Moses; “Moses, Moses, get thee
down quickly, for the people
which thou broughtest out of
the land of Egypt have done
wickedly.
15 And Moses understood that
they had again set up a molten
image: and he cast the two ta
bles out of his hands; and the
tables of the covenant of the Lord
* Gen. xv. 17. So St. Paul himself applies this : Rom. iv. 3.
* Deut. ix. 10. Exod. xxxi. 12.
xxiv. 18.
ix. 12. *Wid. Lat. Interp. Vet.
unto, * Isaiah xlii. 6, 9 Verse 7.
BARNABAS. fulfilled in Christ.
were broken. Moses therefore
received them, but they were not
worthy.
16 Now then learn how we
have received them. Moses, be
ing a servant, took them ; but the
Lord himself has given them unto
us, that we might be the people
of his inheritance, having suffered
for us.
17 He was therefore made ma
nifest; that they should fill up the
measure of their sins, and that
we “being made heirs by him,
should receive the covenant of the
Lord Jesus.
18 And again the prophet
saith; "Behold, I have set thee
for a light unto the Gentiles, to
be "the saviour of all the ends of
the earth, saith the Lord the God
who hath redeemed thee.
19 Who for that very end was
prepared, that by his own appear
ing he might redeem our hearts,
already devoured by death, and
delivered over to the irregularity
of error, from darkness; and es
tablish a covenant with us by his
word.
20 For so it is written that the
father commanded him by deliver
ing us from darkness, to prepare
unto himself a holy people.
21 Wherefore theprophet saith:
*I the Lord thy God have called
thee in righteousness, and I will
take thee by thy hand and will
strengthen thee. And give thee
for a covenant of the people, for
a light of the Gentiles. "To open
the eyes of the blind, to bring out
the prisoners from the prison, and
them that sit in darkness out of
the prison house.
22 Consider therefore from
whence we have been redeemed.
* Exod.
* Exod. xxxii. 7. Deut.
* Isaiah, xlix. 6. * For salvation
157
Jewish Sabbath
And again the prophet saith :
* The spirit of the Lord is upon
me, because he hath anointed me:
he hath sent me to preach glad
tidings to the lowly; to heal the
broken in heart ; to preach re
mission to the captives, and sight
unto the blind; to proclaim the
acceptable year of the Lord, and
the day of restitution; to comfort
all that mourn.
CHAP. XII.
That the sabbath of the Jews was but a
Jigure of a more glorious sabbath to
come, and their temple, of the spiritual
temples of God.
URTHERMORE it is writ
ten concerning the sabbath, in
the Ten "Commandments, which
God spake in the Mount Sinai to
Moses, *face to face; Sanctify the
sabbath of the Lord with pure
hands, and with a clean heart.
2 And elsewhere he saith; ‘If
thy children shall keep my sab
baths, then will I put my mercy
upon them.
3 And even in the beginning
of the creation he makes mention
of the sabbath. “And God made in
six days the works of his hands;
and he finished them on the "se
venth day, and he rested the
seventh day, and sanctified it.
4 Consider, my children, what
that signifies, he finished them in
six days. The meaning of it is
this ; that in ' six thousand years
the Lord God will bring all things
to an end.
5 For with him one day is a
thousand years; as himself testi
eth, saying, Behold this day shall
be as a thousand years. Therefore,
* Isaiah, lxi. 1, 2.
* Jer. xvii. 24. * Gen. ii. 2.
BARNABAS.
Comp. Luke, iv. 18.
Exod. xx. 11. xxxi. 17.
typical.
children, in six days, that is, in six
thousand years, shall "all things
be accomplished.
6 And what is that he saith,
And he rested the seventh day:
he meaneth this; that when his
Son shall come, and abolish the
season of the * Wicked One, and
judge the ungodly; and shall
change the sun and the moon, and
the stars; then he shall gloriously
rest in that seventh day.
7 He adds lastly; Thou shalt
sanctify it with clean hands and a
pure heart. Wherefore we are
greatly deceived if we imagine
that any one can now sanctify that
day which God has made holy,
without having a heart pure in all
things.
8 Behold therefore he will then
truly sanctify it with blessed rest,
when we (having received the
righteous promise, when iniquity
shall be no more, all things being
renewed by the Lord) shall be
able to sanctify it, being ourselves
first made holy.
9 Lastly, he saith unto them :
*Your new moons and your sab
baths I cannot bear them. Con
sider what he means by it; the
sabbaths, says he, which ye now
keep are not acceptable unto me,
but those which I have made;
when resting from all things I
shall begin "the eighth day, that
is, the beginning of the other
world.
10 For which cause we observe
the eighth day with gladness, in
which Jesus rose from the dead ;
and having manifested himself
to his disciples, ascended intº
heaven.
* Exod. xx. 8,
* Wid. Coteler.
* Words.
Annot. in loc. "How general this tradition then was. See Cotelor. Annot.
in loc. Edit. Oxon, page 90, a. Psalm lxxxix. 4.
Gospel, says Dr. Bernard, q.v. Annot. p. 127, Ed. Oxon.
* Thatis, to the time of the
* So the Lat. Wers.
"Isaiah, i. 13. "So the other Fathers, q.v. apud. Coteler. Annot in loc.
158
The temple
11 * It remains yet that I
speak to you concerning the tem
ple how those miserable men be
ing deceived have put their trust
in the * house, and not in God
himself who made them, as if it
were the habitation of God.
12 For much after the same
manner as the Gentiles, they con
secrated him in the temple.
13 But learn therefore how the
Lord speaketh, rendering the tem
ple vain : *Who has measured the
heaven with a span, and the earth
with his hand? Is it not I? Thus
saith the Lord, "Heaven is my
throne, and the earth is my foot
stool. What is the house that ye
will build me? Or what is the
place ofmy rest? Know therefore
that all their hope is vain.
14 And again he speaketh after
this manner: “Behold they that
destroy this temple, even they shall
again build it up. And so it came
to pass; for through their wars it
is now destroyed by their enemies;
and the servants of their enemies
build it up.
15 Furthermore it has been
made manifest, how both the city
and the temple, and the people of
Israel should be given up. For
the scripture saith; "And it shall
come to pass in the last days, that
the Lord will deliver up the sheep
of his pasture, and their fold, and
their tower unto destruction. And
it is come to pass, as the Lord hath
spoken.
16 Let us inquire therefore,
whether there be any temple of
God? Yes there is; and that there,
where himself declares that he
would both make and perfect it.
For it is written; "And it shall
be that as soon as the week shall
be completed, the temple of the
BARNABAS. typical.
Lord shall be gloriously built in
the name of the Lord.
17 I find therefore that there is
a temple. But how shall it be
built in the name of the Lord?
I will shew you.
18 Before that we believed in
God, the habitation of our heart
was corruptible, and feeble, as a
temple truly built with hands.
19 For it was a house full of
idolatry, a house of devils; inas.
much as there was done in it what
soever was contrary unto God.
But it shall be built in the name
of the Lord.
20 Consider, how that the
temple of the Lord shall be very
gloriously built ; and by what
means that shall be, learn.
21 Having received remission
of our sins, and trusting in the
name of the Lord, we are become
renewed, being again created as it
were from the beginning. Where
fore God truly dwells in our house,
that is, in us.
22 But how does he dwell in
us? The word of his faith, the
calling of his promise, the wisdom
of his righteous judgments, the
commands of his doctrine ; he
himself prophecies within us, he
himself dwelleth in us, and open
eth to us who were in bondage of .
death the gate of our ' temple,
that is, the mouth of wisdom,
having given repentance unto
us ; and by this means has
brought us to be an incorruptible
temple.
23 He therefore that desires to
be saved looketh " not unto the
man, but unto him that dwelleth
in him, and speaketh by him ;
being struck with wonder, foras.
much as he never either heard
him speaking such words out of
* Vid. Edit. Oxon. et Vet. Lat. Interp. *Isaiah, xl. 12. *Isaiah, lxvi. 1.
* Isaiah, xlix. 17.
Lat. Ver. Interp.
* Zeph. ii. 6. just. Heb. "Dan. ix. Haggai, ii. " Wid.
159
Of the way
his mouth, nor ever desired to hear
them.
24 This is that spiritual temple
that is built unto the Lord.
CHAP. XIV.
Of the way of light : being a summary
of what a Christian is to do, that he
may be happy for ever.
N D thus, I trust, I have de
clared to you as much, and
with as great simplicity as I could,
those things which make for your
salvation, so as not to have omit
ted anything that might be requi
site thereunto.
2 For should I speak farther of
the things that * now are, and
of those that are to come, you
would not yet understand them,
seeing they lie in parables. This
therefore shall suffice as to these
things.
3 Let us now go on to the other
kind of knowledge and doctrine.
There are two ways of doctrine
and power; the one of light, the
other of darkness.
4 But there is a great deal
of difference between these two
ways: for over one are appointed
the * angels of God, the leaders
of the way of light ; over the
other, the angels of Satan. And
the one is the Lord from everlast
ing to everlasting ; the other is
the prince of the time of unrighte
ousness.
5 Now the way of light is this,
if any one desires to attain to the
place that is appointed for him,
and will hasten thither by his
works. And the knowledge that
has been given to us for walking
in it, to this effect: Thou shalt
love him that made thee : thou
shalt glorify him that hath re
deemed thee from death.
* So the old Lat. Interp.
* Greedy, wheovekëns.
* Wid.
BARNABAS. of light
6 Thoushalt be simple in heart,
and rich in the spirit. Thou shalt
not cleave to those that walk in
the way of death. Thou shalt hate
to do anything that is not pleasing
unto God. Thou shalt abhor all
dissimulation. Thou shalt not
neglect any of the commands of
the Lord.
7 Thou shalt not exalt thyself,
but shalt be humble. Thou shalt
not take honour to thyself. Thou
shalt not enter into any wicked
counsel against thy neighbour.
Thou shalt not be over-confident
in thy heart.
8 Thou shalt not commit forni
cation, nor adultery. Neither
shalt thou corrupt thyself with
mankind. Thou shalt not make
use of the word of God, to any
impurity.
9 Thou shalt not accept any
man's person, when thou reprovest
any one's faults. Thou shalt be
gentle. Thou shalt be quiet.
Thou shalt tremble at the words
which thou hast heard. Thou
shalt not keep any hatred in thy
heart against thy brother. Thou
shalt not entertain any doubt
whether it shall be or not.
10 Thou shalt not take the
name of the Lord in vain. Thou
shalt love thy neighbour above
thy own soul.
11 Thou shalt not destroy thy
conceptions before they are
brought forth; nor kill them after
they are born.
12 Thou shalt not withdraw
thy hand from thy son, or from
thydaughter; butshall teach them
from their youth the fear of the
Lord.
13 Thou shalt not covet thy
neighbour's goods; neither shalt
thou be “an extortioner. Neither
Coteler, in loc. et Basil. in Psalin i
160
to a Christian.
shall thy heart be joined to proud
men; but thou shalt be numbered
among the righteous and the
lowly. Whatever * events shall
happen unto thee, thou shalt re
ceive them as good.
14 Thou shalt not be double
minded, or double tongued ; for
a double tongue is the snare of
death. Thou shalt be subject
unto the Lord and to inferior
masters as to the representatives
of God, in fear and reverence.
15 Thou shalt not be bitter in
thy commands towards any of
thy servants that trust in God;
lest thou chance not to fear him
who is over both ; because he
came not to call any with respect
of persons, but whomsoever the
spirit had prepared.
16 Thou shalt communicate to
thy neighbour of all thou hast ;
thou shalt not call anything thine
own : for if ye partake in such
things as are incorruptible, how
much more should you do it in
those that are corruptible?
17 * Thou shalt not be forward
to speak ; for the mouth is the
snare of death. *Strive for thy
soul with all thy might. “Reach
not out thine hand to receive, and
withhold it not when thou should
est give.
18 Thou shalt love, as the ap
ple of thine eye, every one that
speaketh unto thee the Word of
the Lord. "Call to thy remem
brance, day and night, the future
judgment.
19. Thou shalt seek out every
day the persons of the "righteous:
and both consider and go about
to exhort others by the word, and
1. Effects. *See Eccles. iv. 29.
BARNABAS. Way of darkness.
meditate how thou mayest save a
soul.
20 Thou shalt also labour with
thy hands to give to the poor,
"that thy sins maybeforgiventhee.
Thou shalt not deliberate whether
thou shouldst give : nor, having
given, murmur at it.
21 Give to every one that asks:
so shalt thou know who is the
good rewarder of thy gifts.
22 Keep what thou hast re
ceived; thou shalt neither add to
it nor take from it.
23 Let the wicked be always
thy aversion. Thou shalt judge
righteous judgment. Thou shalt
never cause divisions; but shalt
make peace between those that
are at variance, and bring them
together.
24 Thou shalt confess thy sins;
and not come to thy prayer with
an evil conscience.
25 This is the way of light.
CHAP. XW.
Of the way of darkness ; that is, what
kind of persons shall be for ever cast
out of the kingdom of God.
UT the way of darkness is
crooked and full of cursing.
For it is the way of eternal death,
with punishment; in which they
that walk meet those things that
destroy their own souls.
2 Such are ; idolatry, confi
dence, pride of power, hypocrisy,
double-mindedness, adultery, mur
der, rapine, pride, transgression,
deceit, malice, arrogance, witch
craft, eovetousness, and the want
of the fear of God.
3 In this walk those who are
the persecutors of them that are
good; haters of truth; lovers of
* Ibid. ver. 28. For so I choose to read
it, virep rms ºvyms ore ayovevorets, according to the conjecture of Cotelerius.
* Ibid. ver. 36. *And remember him night and day. The words muspas
spiseos, seem to have been erroneously inserted, and pervert the sense.
* Gr. Saints.
See Lxx.
* Gr. For the redemption of thy sins. Comp. Dan. iv. 24.
21 161
Who shall be
lies; who know not the reward
of righteousness, nor cleave to
any thing that is good.
4 Who administer not righte
ous judgment to the widow and
orphan; who watch for wicked
ness, and not for the fear of the
Lord :
5 From whom gentleness and
patience are far off ; who love va
nity, and follow after rewards;
having no compassion upon the
poor; nor take any pains for such
as are heavy laden and oppressed.
6 Ready to evil speaking, not
knowing him that made them ;
murderers of children; corrupt
ers of the creatures of God; that
turn away from the needy; op
press the afflicted; are the advo
cates of the rich, but unjust judges
of the poor; being altogether sin
InerS.
7 It is therefore fitting that
learning the just commands of
the Lord, which we have before
mentioned, we should walk in
them. For he who does such
things shall be glorified in the
kingdom of God.
8 But he that chooses the other
part, shall be destroyed, together
with his works. For this cause
there shall be both a resurrection,
and a retribution.
9 I beseech those that are in
high estate among you, (if so be
you will take the counsel which
with a good intention I offer to
you,) you have those with you to
wards whom you may do good;
do not forsake them.
10 For the day is at hand in
which all things shall be destroy
BARNABAS. cast out.
ed, together with the wicked one.
The Lord is near, and his reward
is with him.
11 I beseech you, therefore,
again, and again, be as good law
givers to one another; continue
faithful counsellors to each other:
remove from among you all hy
pocrisy.
12 And may God, the Lord of
all the world give you wisdom,
knowledge, counsel, and under
standing of his judgments in pa
tience.
13 Be ye taught of God; seek
ing what it is the Lord requires
of you, and doing it; that ye
may be saved in the day of judg
ment.
14 And if there be among you
any remembrance of what is good
think of me ; meditating upon
these things, that both my desire
and my watching for you may
turn to a good account.
15 I beseech you; I ask it as
a favour of you; whilst you are
in this beautiful 'tabernacle of the
body, be wanting in none of these
things; but without ceasing seek
them, and fulfil every command.
For these things are fitting and
worthy to be done.
16 Wherefore I have given the
more diligence to write unto you,
according to my ability, that you
might rejoice. Farewell, children,
of love and peace.
17 The Lord of glory and of
all grace, be with your spirit,
Amen.
‘I The end of the Epistle of Bar
nabas, the Apostle, and fellow
traveller ofSt. Paul the Apostle.
* Wessel.
162
The EPISTLE of IGNATIUS to the EPHESIANS.
‘I OF THE EPISTLES OF IGNATIUS.
[The Epistles of Ignatius are translated by Archbishop Wake from the
text of Wossius. He says that there were considerable differences in the
editions; the best for a long time extant containing fabrications, and
the genuine being altered and corrupted. Archbishop Usher printed
old Latin translations of them at Oxford, in 1644. At Amsterdam,
two years afterwards, Vossius printed six of them in their ancient
and pure Greek; and the seventh greatly amended from the ancient
Latin version, was printed at Paris, by Ruinart, in 1689, in the Acts
and Martyrdom of Ignatius, from a Greek uninterpolated copy. These
are supposed to form the collection that Polycarp made ofthe Epistles
ofIgnatius, mentionedby Irenaes,Origen, Eusebius,Jerome, Athanasius,
Theodoret, and other ancients; but many learned men have imagined
all of them to be apocryphal. This supposition, the piety of Arch
bishop Wake, and his persuasion of their utility to the faith of the
church, will not permit him to entertain ; hence he has taken great
pains to render the present translation acceptable, by adding nume
rous readings and references to the Canonical Books.
CHAP. I.
Commends them for sending Onesimus,
and other members of the church to
him. 8 Erhorts them to unity, 13 by
a due subjection to their bishop.
GNATIUS, who is also called
Theophorus, to the church
which is at Ephesus in Asia; most
deservedly happy; being blessed
through the greatness and full
ness * of God the Father, and
predestinated before the world be
gan, that it should be always unto
an enduring and unchangeable
glory; being united and chosen
*through his true passion, accord
ing to the will of the Father, and
Jesus Christ our God; all “happi
ness, by Jesus Christ, and * his
undefiled grace.
2 I have "heard of your name
much beloved in God; which ye
have * very justly attained by a
' habit of righteousness, according
to the faith and love which is in
Jesus Christ our Saviour.
3 How that being "followers of
1 In. *See Eph. iii. 19. *In.
Interpol.
Par. 2, cap. 14.
1
* Imitators.
things.
* Health, Joy.
* Wid. Coteler. in loc. Comp. Gal. iv. 8.
9 Wiz. of Christ.
2. 12 See the old Lat. Ed. of Bishop Usher.
God, and stirring up yourselves
by the blood of Christ ye have
perfectly accomplished the work
that was con-natural unto you.
4 For hearing that I came
bound from Syria, for the common
name and "hope, trusting through
your prayers to fight with beasts
at Rome; so that by "suffering I
may become indeed the disciple
of him "who gave himself to God,
an offering and sacrifice for us;
* (ye hastened to see me). I re.
ceived, therefore, in the name of
God, your whole multitude in
Onesimus.
5 Who by inexpressible love is
ours, but according to the flesh is
your bishop; whom I beseech you,
by Jesus Christ, to love: and that
you would all strive to be like unto
him. And blessed be God, who
has granted unto you, who are so
worthy of him, to *enjoy such an
excellent bishop.
6 For what concerns my fel
low servant Burrhus, and your
1” most blessed deacon in things
* Received. Wid. Epist.
* Pearson. Wind. Ignat.
10 Martyrdom 11 É. V.
** Possess. 14 Blessed in all
163
Of unity
pertaining to God; I entreat you
that he may tarry longer, both
for yours, and your bishop's hon
Our.
7 And Crocus also worthy both
our God and you, whom I have
received as the pattern of your
love, has in all things refreshed
me, as the Father of our Lord
Jesus Christ shall alsorefreshhim;
together with Onesimus, and Bur
rhus, and Euclus, and Fronto, lin
whom I have, as to your charity,
seen all of you. And may I al
ways, * have joy of you, if I shall
be worthy of it.
8. It is therefore fitting that you
should “by all means glorify Je
sus Christ who hath glorified you:
that “by a uniform obedience
*ye may be perfectly joined to
gether, in the same mind, and in
the same judgment : and may all
speak the same things concerning
everything.
9 And that being subject to
"your bishop, and the presbytery,
ye may be wholly and thoroughly
sanctified.
10 These things I "prescribe
to you, not as if I were somebody
extraordinary: for though I am
bound 8 for his name, I am not
yet perfect in Christ Jesus. "But
now I begin to learn, and I speak
to you as fellow disciples together
with me.
11 For I ought to have been
stirred up by you, in faith, in ad
monition, in patience, in long
suffering; but forasmuch as cha
rity suffers me not to be silent
1° towards you, I have first taken
upon me to exhort you, that ye
would all run together according
to the will of God.
12 For even Jesus Christ, our
EPHESIANS.
* By.
one. * 1 Cor, i. 10. 6 The.
ing. ** Mind, counsel, opinion, &c.
14 &n. * Partake of.
* See Philem. 20. Wisd. xxx. 2.
* Command you.
1* Whence.
and objection.
inseparable life, is sent by the
* will of the Father; as the bi
shops, appointed unto the utmost
bounds of the earth, are by the
will of Jesus Christ.
13 * Wherefore it will become
you to run togetheraccordingtothe
will of your bishop, as also ye do.
14 For your “famous presby
tery, worthy of God, is fitted as
exactly to the bishop, as the
strings are to the harp.
15 Therefore in your concord
and agreeing charity, Jesus Christ
is sung; and every single person
among you makes up the chorus:
16 That so being all consonant
in “love, and taking up the song
of God, ye may in a perfect unity
with one voice, sing to the Father
by Jesus Christ; to the end that
he may both hear you, and per
ceive by your works, that ye are
indeed the members of his son.
17 Wherefore it is profitable
for you to live in an unblameable
unity, that so ye may always
* have a fellowship with God.
CHAP. II.
1 The benefit of subjection. 4 The bishop
not to be respected the less because he
is notforward in exacting it: 8 warns
them against heretics; bidding them
cleave to Jesus, whose divine and human
nature is declared ; commends them
for their care to keep themselves from
jalse teachers, and shews them the
way to God.
OR if I in this little time have
had such a familiarity with
your bishop, I mean not a carnal,
but spiritual acquaintance with
him ; how much more must I
think you happy who are sojoined
to him, as the church is to Jesus
Christ, and Jesus Christ to the
* In all manner of ways. “In
8In. 9]Eor. 10 Concern
*Worthy to be named.
164
Ilove to the bishop.
Father; that so all things may
agree in the same unity?
2 Let no man deceive himself;
if a man be not within the altar,
he is deprived of the bread of
God. For if the prayer of one or
two be of such force, as we are
told; how much more powerful
shall that of the bishop and the
whole church be 7
3 He therefore that does not
come together in the same place
with it, is “proud, and has al
ready *condemned himself. For
it is written, “God resisteth the
proud. Let us take heed there
fore, that we do not set ourselves
against the bishop, that we may be
subject to God.
4 * The more any one sees his
bishop silent, the more let him
revere him. For whomsoever the
master of the house sends to be
over his own household, we ought
in like manner to receive him, as
we would do him that sent him.
It is therefore evident that we
ought to look upon the bishop,
even as we would do upon the
Lord himself.
5 And indeed Onesimus him
self does greatly commend your
good order in God: that you all
live according to the truth, and
that no heresy dwells among you.
For neither do ye hearken to any
one more than to Jesus Christ
speaking to you in truth.
6 For some there are who
* carry about the name of Christ
'in deceitfulness, but do things
unworthy of God; whom ye must
* flee, as ye would do so many
wild beasts. For they are raven
ing dogs, who bite secretly :
* Matt. xviii. 19.
ted. *James, iv. 6.
wicked deceit. * Avoid.
* And the.
* Known. 15 Passed thither. ** Upon.
1 Pet. ii. 5, 18 The building of God the Father.
tross, etc.
EPHESIANS.
*Is already proud and has, &c.
* Accustom themselves to carry.
* Which can.
Voss. Annot. in loc. Pearson, Wind. Ign. par. 2, #. 207, 208.
* As neither is faith the things of infid e
lity.nor infi
Exhorts against heresy.
against whom ye must guard
yourselves, as men hardly to be
cured.
7 There is one physican, both
fleshy and spiritual; made and
not made ; God incarnate ; true
life in death; both of Mary and
of God; first passible, then im
passible ; even Jesus Christ our
Lord.
8 Wherefore let no man de.
ceive you; as indeed neither are
ye deceived, being wholly the ser.
vants of God. For inasmuch as
there is no contention nor strife
among you, * to trouble you, "ye
must needs live according
to God's will. “My soul be
for yours; and I myself the expi
atory offering for your church of
Ephesus, so famous * throughout
the world.
9 They that are of the flesh
cannot do the works of the spirit;
neither they that are of the spirit
the works of the flesh. * As he
that has faith cannot be an infi
del; nor he that is an infidel have
faith. But even those things
which ye do according to the flesh
are spiritual; forasmuch as ye do
all things in Jesus Christ.
10 Nevertheless I have ** heard
ofsome who have * passed by you,
having perverse doctrine; whom
ye did not suffer to sow "among
you; but stopped your ears, that
ye might not receive those things
that were sown by them : as "be
ing the stones of the temple of the
Father, prepared for * his build
ing ; and drawn up on high by
the Cross of Christ, *as by an
engine.
11 Using the Holy Ghost as the
* Judged, or separa
7 In
10 Without doubt ye live. ii Vid.
1*To ages.
lity the things of faith.
Eph. ii. 20, 21, 22.
By the engine of the
17 Cºmº9
165
Exhorts to prayer,
rope: your faith being your sup
port; and your charity the way
that leads unto God.
12 Ye are therefore, with all
your companions in the same
*journey, full of God; his spiri
tual temples, *full of Christ, “full
of holiness: adorned in all things
with the commands of Christ.
13 In whom also I rejoice that
I have been thought worthy by
*this present epistle to converse,
and joy together with you ; that
with respect to the other life, ye
love nothing but God only.
CHAP. III.
1 Exhorts them to prayer; to be un
blamable. 5 To be careful of salva
tion; 11 frequent in public devotion ;
13 and to live in charity.
RAY also without ceasing for
other men : for there is hope
of repentance in them, that they
may attain unto God. Let them
therefore at least be instructed by
your works, if they will be no
other way.
2 Be ye mild at their anger ;
humble at their boasting; to their
blasphemies return your prayers :
to their error, your “firmness in
the faith : when they are cruel,
be ye gentle; not endeavouring to
imitate their ways.
(3 Let us be their brethren in
all kindness and moderation, but
let us be followers of the Lord ;
* for who was ever more unjustly
used ? More destitute 1 More
despised ?)
4 That so no herb of the devil
may be found in you : but ye may
remain in all holiness and sobriety
* both of body and spirit, in Christ
Jesus.
* Pearson, ib. part 2, cap. 12.
ye firm.
spiritually. 1 Cor. vii. 34.
"Become you. . " In.
JºE’HESLANS.
* Carriers.
* Who has been more, etc.
* Remain : or, for it remains.
*One of the two, only that we may be found, etc.
*Assented to.
against sin
5 The last times " are come
upon us: let us therefore be very
reverent, and fear the long-suffer
ing of God, that it be not to us
unto condemnation.
6 For let us either fear the
wrath that is to come, or let us
love the grace "that we at present
enjoy : that "by the one, or other,
of these we may be found in
Christ Jesus, unto true life.
7 * Besides him, let nothing
*be worthy of you; *for whom
also I bear about these bonds,
those spiritual jewels, in which I
would to God that I might arise
through your prayers.
8 Of which I entreat you to
make me always partaker, that I
may be found in the lot of the
Christians of Ephesus, who have
always” agreed with the Apostles,
“through the power of Jesus
Christ.
9 *ſ I know both who I am,
and to whom I write; I, a person
condemned : ye, such as have
obtained mercy: I, exposed to
danger; ye, confirmed against
danger.
10 Ye are the passage of those
that are killed for God; the con
panions of Paul in the mysteries
of the Gospel ; the Holy, the
* martyr, the deservedly most
happy Paul; at whose feet may I
be found, when I shall have at
tained unto God; who "through
out all his epistle, makes mention
of you in Christ Jesus.
11 Let it be your care there
fore to come more fully together,
to the praise and glory of God.
For when ye meet fully together
in the same place, the powers of
*These things I write. * Be
8 in Jesus Christ both bodily and
*Is present.
* Without him.
14 In. 16. Witnessed of. M. Wid.
Coteler, in loc. Pears. Wind. Ign. Par 2, cap. 10.
| 66
to charity, and to
the devil are destroyed, and his
"mischief is dissolved by the
* unity of their faith.
12 And indeed, nothing is bet
ter than peace, by which all war
both “spiritual and earthly is
abolished.
13 Of all which nothing is hid
from you, if ye have perfect faith
and charity in Christ Jesus,
which are the beginning and end
of life.
14 For the beginning is faith;
the end is charity. And these two
*joined together, are of God: but
all other things which concern a
holy life are the consequences of
these.
15 No man professing a true
faith, sinneth ; neither does he
who has charity hate any.
16 * The tree is made manifest
by its fruit; so they who profess
themselves to be christians “are
known by what they do.
17 For christianity is not the
work of an outward profession;
but shows itself in the power of
faith, if a man be found faithful
unto the end.
18 It is better for a man to hold
his peace, and be ; " than to say
he is a christian, and not to be.
19 It is good to teach; "if
what he says he does likewise.
20 There is therefore one mas
ter who spake, and it was done;
and even those things which he
did without speaking, are worthy
of the Father.
21 He that possesses the word
of Jesus is truly able to hear his
very silence, that he may be per
fect; "and both do according to
what he speaks, and be known
*Concord.
* Matt. xii. 38.
| Destruction.
“Being in unity.
* Speaking, not to be.
11 Out of.
“Such a one being become defiled.
Psalm xliv, 8, cKxxii. 2.
EPHESIANS.
* If he who says, does.
* The corrupters of houses.
15 Hears him.
love of the Gospel.
by those things of which he is
silent.
22 There is nothing hid from
God, but even our secrets are nigh
unto him.
23 Let usthereforedoallthings,
as becomes those who have "God
dwelling in them; that we may
be his temples, and he may be our
God: as also he is, and will mani
fest himself before our faces, by
those things “for which we justly
love him.
CHAP. IV.
1 To have a care for the Gospel. 9 The
virginityof Mary, the incarnation, and
the death of Christ, were hid from the
Devil. 11 How the birth of Christ was
revealed. 16 Exhorts to unity.
E not deceived, my brethren:
those that 12 corrupt families
by adultery, shall not inherit the
kingdom of God.
2 If therefore they who do this
according to the flesh, *have suf
fered death ; how much more
shall he die, who by his wicked
doctrine corrupts the faith of God,
for which Christ was crucified ?
3 *He that isthusdefiled, shall
depart into unquenchable fire, and
so also shall he that * hearkens
to him.
4 For this cause did the Lord
"suffer the ointment to be poured
on hishead; thathemightbreathe
the breath of immortality unto his
church.
5 Be not ye therefore anointed
with the evil savour of the doc
trine of the prince of this world:
let him not take you captive from
the life that is set before you.
6 And why are we not all wise,
seeing we have received the know
*Of things in heaven and of things on earth.
Shall be seen or made manifest.
*That he may. 10 Him.
1 Cor. vi. 9, 10. 13 1 Cor. x. 8
* Receives ointment.
167
The incarnation, &c.,
ledge of God, which is Jesus
Christ? Why I do we suffer our
selves foolishly to perish ; * not
considering the gift which the
Lord has truly sent to us?
7 *Let my life be sacrificed for
the doctrine of the cross; which
is indeed a scandal to the unbe
lievers, but to us is salvation and
life eternal.
8 * Where is the wise man'ſ
Where is the disputer | Where
is the boasting of those who are
called wise
9 For our God Jesus Christ
was according to the dispensation
of God * conceived in the womb
of Mary, of the seed of David,
"by the Holy Ghost; " he was
born and baptized, that through
his passion he might purify
water, to the washing away of
$111.
10 Now the Virginity of Mary,
and he who was born of her, was
kept in secret from the prince of
this world; as was also the death
of our Lord : three of the “mys
teries the most spoken of through
out the world, yet done in "secret
by God.
11 How then was our Saviour
manifested to the world? A star
shone in heaven beyond all the
other stars, and its light was inex
pressible, and its novelty struck
terror into men's minds. All the
rest of the stars, together with
the sun and moon, were the
chorus to this star ; but that sent
out its light exceedingly above
them all.
12 And men "began to be
troubled to think whence this
*new star came so unlike to *all
the others.
*Are we foolishly destroyed 1
in loc. 1 Cor. i. 18, 23, 24.
was. *Mysteries of noise.
19There was a disorder. 11 Novelty.
made manifest. * Reveal.
EPHESIANS.
* Not knowing.
41 Cor. i. 20.
*Silence or quietness.
*That ye may obey.
hid from the devil.
13 Hence all the power of ma
gic became dissolved; and every
bond of wickedness was “destroy
ed: men's ignorance was taken
away; and the old kingdom abo
lished; God himself “appearing
in the form of a man, for the re
newal of eternal life.
14 From thence began what
God had prepared: from thence
forth things were disturbed ; for
asmuch as he designed to abolish
death.
15 But if Jesus Christshallgive
me grace through your prayers,
and it be his will, I purpose in a
second epistle which I will sud.
denly write unto you to manifest
to you more fully the dispensation
of which I have now begun to
speak, unto the new man, which
is Jesus Christ; both in his faith,
and charity; in his suffering, and
in his resurrection.
16 Especially if the Lord shall
* make known unto me, that ye
all by name come together in com
mon in one faith, and in one Je
sus Christ ; who was of the race
of David according to the flesh ;
the Son of man, and Son of God;
* obeying your bishop and the
presbytery with an entire * affec
tion; breaking one and the same
bread, which is the medicine of
immortality; our antidote that we
should not die, but live for ever
in Christ Jesus.
17 My soul be for yours, and
theirs whom ye have sent to the
glory of God, even unto Smyrna,
from whence also I write to you;
giving thanks unto the Lord and
loving Polycarp even as I do you.
Remember me, as Jesus Christ
does remember you.
*See Dr Smith's note
* Carried. ” But by. 7 Who
13 See Rom. xvi. 25.
Disappeared. *Being
17 Mind.
12. Them.
168
Eachorts to reverence
18 Pray for the church which
is in Syria, from whence I am
carried bound to Rome ; being
the least of all the faithful which
are there, as I have been thought
MAGNESLANS.
common Hope.
the bishop.
worthy to be found to the glory
of God.
19 Fare ye well in God the
Father, and in Jesus Christ, our
Amen.
‘W To the Ephesians.
-->-
The EPISTLE of IGNATIUS to the MAGNESIANS.
CHAP. I.
4 Mentions the arrival of Damas, their
bishop, and others, 6 whom he exhorts
them to reverence, notwithstanding he
was a young man.
GNATIUS who is also called
Theophorus; to the blessed
1 (church)? by the grace of God
the Father in Jesus Christ our Sa
viour: in whom I salute the church
which is at Magnesia near the
Maeander: and wish it all joy in
God the Father and in Jesus
Christ.
2. When I heard of your well
ordered love and charity in God,
being full of joy, I desired much
to speak unto you in the faith of
Jesus Christ.
3 For having * been thought
worthy to obtain a most excellent
name, "in the bonds which I carry
about, I "salute the churches;
wishing in them a union both of
thebodyandspirit of Jesus Christ,
our eternal life : as also of faith
and charity, to which nothing is
preferred : but especially of Jesus
and the Father; in whom * if we
undergo all the injuries of the
prince of this present world, and
escape, we shall enjoy God.
* Wid. Interp. Lat. Epist. Interpol.
vouchsafed a name carrying a great deal of divinity in it.
Pearson. Wind. Ign. par. ii. cap. 12. p
2 º; * Worthy of God.
i.
at. Interp. G
* It is becoming.
. 146.
"Whom may I enjoy.
orificato Deum Patrem D. nostri.Jesu Christi.
Annot. in loc. Pearson Praef. ad Vind. Ignat.
* Without any hypocrisy.
4 Seeing then I have been
judged worthy to see you, by
Damas your “most excellent bi
shop; and by your very worthy
presbyters, Bassus and Apollonius;
and by my fellow-servant Sotio,
the deacon ;
5 In whom "I rejoice, foras.
much as he is the subject unto
his bishop as to the grace of God,
and to the presbytery as to the law
of Jesus Christ; "I determined
to write unto you.
6 Wherefore it will become you
also not * to use your bishop too
familiarly upon the account of his
youth ; but to yield all reverence
to him according to the power of
God the Father; as also I perceive
that your holy presbyters do: not
considering his * age, which in
deed to appearance is young; but
as becomes those who are prudent
in God, submitting to him, or
rather not to him, but to the
Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
the bishop of us all.
7 Itwill therefore *behove you
“with all sincerity, to obey your
bishop ; in honour of him *whose
pleasure it is that ye should do so.
8 Because he that does not do
so, deceives not the bishop whom
*In. “According to. * Been
* See Bishop
* Sing, commend. 7 Under
19Apud. Vet.
11 Wid. Woss.
*Seeming youthful state
15 Who willeth it.
22 169
Exhorts to live
he sees, but affronts him that is
invisible. *For whatsoever of this
kind is done, it reflects not upon
* man, but upon God, who knows
the secrets of our hearts.
9 It is therefore fitting, that
we should not only be called
christians, but be so.
10 As some call indeed their
governor, bishop ; but yet do all
things without him.
11. But I can never think that
such as these have a good con
science, seeing that they are not
gathered together “thoroughly ac
cording to God's commandment.
CHAP. II.
1 That as all must die, 4 he exhorts them
to live orderly and in unity.
EEING then all things have
an end, there are these two
*indifferently set before us, death
and life: and every one shall de
part unto his proper place.
2 For as there are two sorts of
coins, the one of God, the other of
the world ; and each of these has
its proper "inscription engraven
upon it; so also is it here.
3 The unbelievers are of this
world; but the faithful, through
charity, have the character of God
the Father by Jesus Christ : by
whom if we are not readily dis
posed to die after the likeness
of his passion, his life is not in us.
4 Forasmuch, therefore, as I
have in the persons before men
tioned seen " all of you in faith
and charity; I exhort you that ye
study to do all things in a “divine
concord:
5 Your bishop presiding in the
place of God; your presbyters in
the place of the council of the
Apostles; and your deacons most
* Deludes.
*Character set.
*Was made manifest. Heb. ix. 26.
11, 12, xvii. 21, 22.
* Pearson, Wind. Ign. par. 2, cap. 4.
MAGNESIANS.
*Wid. Epist. Interp. ad loc.
7Your whole multitude.
11 Habit of God.
*Eph. iv. 3, 4, 5, 6.
orderly and in unity.
° dear to me being entrusted with
the ministry ofJesus Christ; who
was the Father before all ages,
and appeared in the "end to us.
6 Wherefore taking the same
* holy course, see that ye all re
verence one another: and let no
one look upon his neighbour after
the flesh; but do ye all mutually
love each other in Jesus Christ.
7 Let there be nothingthatmay
be able to make a division among
you; but be ye united to your
bishop, and those who preside
over you, to be your pattern and
direction in the way to immortal
ity.
8 * As therefore the Lord did
nothing without the Father, being
united to him ; neither by himself
nor yet by his Apostles, so neither
do ye do anything without your
bishop and presbyters:
9 Neither endeavour to let any
thing appear rational to yourselves
apart ;
10 But being come together
into the same place “have one
common prayer; one supplication;
one mind; one hope; one in cha
rity, and in joy undefiled.
11 There is one Lord Jesus
Christ, than whom nothing is
better. Wherefore * come ye all
together as unto one temple of
God; as to one * altar, as to one
Jesus Christ; who proceeded from
one Father, and exists in one, and
is returned to one.
CHAP. III.
1 He cautions them against false opinions.
4 Especially those of 1° Ebion and the
Judaizing Christians.
B”not deceived with "strange
doctrines; nor with old fa
bles which are unprofitable. For
*Flesh. “Firmly “Together.
*The concord of God. "Sweet.
* John, x. 30. xiv.
* Run. ” John, xvi. 28.
17 Heterodox.
170
Cautions against
if we still continue to live accord
ing to the Jewish law, we do con
fess ourselves not to have received
grace. For even the most holy
prophets lived according to Christ
Jesus.
2 And for this cause were they
persecuted, being inspired by his
grace, *to convince the unbelievers
and disobedient that there is one
God who has manifested himself
by Jesus Christ his Son; who is
his “eternal word, not coming
forth from silence, who in all
things pleased him that sent him.
3 Wherefore if they who were
brought up in these ancient “laws
came nevertheless to the newness
of hope : no longer observing sab
baths, *but keeping the Lord's day
in which also our life is sprung up
by him, and through his death,
* whom yet some deny:
4 (By which mystery we have
'been brought to believe and
therefore wait that we may be
found the disciples of Jesus Christ,
our only master :)
5 How shall we be able to live
"different from him whose disci
ples the very prophets themselves
being, did by the spirit expect him
as their master.
6 "And therefore he whom they
justly waited for, being come,
raised them up from the dead.
7 Let us not then be insensible
of his goodness; for should he
"have dealt with us according to
our works, we had not now had a
being.
8 Wherefore being become his
disciples, let us learn to live ac
cording to the rules of Christi
anity ; for whosoever is called by
any other name * besides this, he
is not of God.
*Most divine. "Fully to satisfy.
according to. “Or, which.
MAGNESIANS.
7 Received.
false opinions
9 Lay aside therefore the old
and sour and evil leaven ; and bo
ye changed into the new leaven,
which is Jesus Christ.
10 Beye salted in him, lest any
one among you should be corrupt
ed; for by your saviour ye shall
be "judged.
11 It is absurd to name Jesus
Christ, and to Judaize. For the
christian religion did not *em
brace the Jewish, but the Jewish
the christian ; that so every
tongue that believed might be
gathered together unto God.
12 These things, my beloved,
I write unto you; not that I know
of any among you that “lie under
this error: but as * one of the
least among you, I am desirous to
forewarn you, that ye fall not into
the "snares of false doctrine.
13 But that ye be fully in
structed in the birth, and suffer
ing, and resurrection of Jesus
Christ, our hope; which was ac
complished in the time of the
government of Pontius Pilate, and
that most truly and " certainly:
and from which God forbid that
any among you should be turned
aside.
CHAP. IV.
1 Commends their faith and piety; ex.
horts them to persevere ; 10 desires
their prayers for himselfand the church
at Antioch.
A Y I therefore have joy of
you in all things, if I shall
be worthy of it. For though I am
bound, yet am I not worthy to be
compared to one of you that are
at liberty.
2 I know that ye are not puffed
up; for ye have Jesus Christ "in
your hearts.
3 And especially when I com.
*John, 1, 1. ‘Things. “Or, living
8 Without. * Matt. xxvii. 52.
* Vid. Annot. Voss, in loc. should he have imitated our works, Gr. 11 More.
than. **Convicted, overthrown. * Believe. “Have yourselves so.
* Lesser than you. *Hooks. * Firmly. 18. In yourselves.
y y y
17]
Commends subjection
mend you, I know that ye are
ashamed, as it is written, 1 The
just man condemneth himself.
4 Study therefore to be con
firmed in the doctrine of our Lord,
and of his Apostles; that so what
ever ye do, ye may prosper both
in body and spirit, in faith and
charity, in the Son, and in the
Father, and in the Holy Spirit:
in the beginning, and in the end.
5 Together with your most
worthy bishop, and the * well
wrought spiritual crown of your
presbytery, and your deacons,
which are according to God.
6 Be subject to your bishop,
and to one another, as Jesus Christ
to the Father, according to the
flesh: and the Apostles both to
Christ, and to the Father, and to
the Holy Ghost : that so ye may
*be united both in body and
spirit.
7 * Knowing you to be full of
God, I have the more briefly ex
horted you.
TRALLLANS, to bishops, priests,
8 Be mindful of me in your
prayers, that I may * attain unto
God, and of the Church that is in
Syria, from " which I am not
worthy to be called.
9 For I stand in need of your
joint prayers in God, and of your
charity, that the church which is
in Syria may be thought worthy
to be "nourished by your church.
10 The Ephesians “from Smyr
na salute you, from which place I
write unto you: (being present
here to the glory of God, in like
manner as you are,) who have in
all things refreshed me, together
with Polycarp, the bishop of the
Smyrnaeans.
11 The rest of the churches in
the honour of Jesus Christ, salute
you.
12 * Farewell, and be ye
strengthened in the concord of
God : " enjoying his inseparable
spirit, which is Jesus Christ.
"I To the Magnesians.
-->-
The EPISTLE of IGNATIUS to the TRALLIANS.
CHAP. I.
1 Acknowledges the coming of their bi
shop. 5 Commends them for their
subjection to their bishop, priests, and
deacons; and exhorts them to continue
in it: 15 is afraid even of his over
yreat desire to suffer, lest it should be
Prejudicial to him.
GNATIUS, who is also called
Theophorus, to theholychurch
which is at Tralles in Asia: be
loved of God the Father of Jesus
Christ, elect and worthy of God,
having peace “through the flesh
and blood, and passion of Jesus
Christ our hope, in the resurrec
tion whichis “byhim: whichalso
* Prov. xviii. 17 Sept.
union both fleshly and spiritual.
"Bedewed. Wid. Epist. Interpol. in lot.
"Possessing, in In.
*Which you have not according to use, butaccord.
* Who am bound.
*"Eppoorðe.
I salute in its fulness, continuing
in the apostolical character, wish
ing all joy and happiness unto it.
2 I have * heard of your
blameless and 14constant disposi
tion throughpatience, which *not
only appears in youroutward con
versation, but is naturally rooted
and grounded in you.
3 In like manner as Polybius
your bishop has declared unto me,
who came to me to Smyrna, by
the will of God and Jesus Christ,
and so rejoiced together with me
*in my bonds for Jesus Christ,
2 Worthil
.
* Eph. iii. 4.
that in effect I saw your whole
|” church in him.
complicated. *There may be a
*Find, enjoy. "Whence
*Which came to Smyrna upon
12 Unto. 13 Known.
my account.
*Inseparable mind.
ing to possession. * Multitude.
and deacons.
4 Having therefore received
1 testimony of your good will to
wards me 2 for God's sake, by
him; * I seemed to find you, as
also I knew that ye were the “fol
lowers of God.
5 For * whereas ye are subject
to your bishop as to Jesus Christ,
ye appear to me to live not after
the manner of men, but according
to Jesus Christ ; who died for us,
that so believing in his death, ye
might ° escape death.
6 It is therefore necessary, that
as ye do, so without your bishop,
you should do nothing : also be
ye subject to your presbyters, as
to the Apostles of Jesus Christ
our hope; in whom if we walk,
we shall be found in him.
7 * The deacons also, as being
the ministers of the mysteries of
Jesus Christ, must by all means
please ye. For they are not the
* ministers of meat and drink, but
of the church of God. Wherefore
they must avoid all offences, as
they would do fire,
8 In like manner let us rever
ence the deacons 9 as Jesus Christ;
and the bishop as the father; and
the presbyters as the Sanhedrim of
God, and college of the Apostles.
9 Without these there is no
19 church. Concerning all which I
am persuaded that yell think after
the very same manner: for I have
received, and even now have with
me, the pattern of your love, in
your bishop.
10 Whose very 1” look is in
structive ; and whose mildness
TRALLIANS. Desires to suffer,
suaded, the very Atheists them
selves cannot but reverence.
11 But because I have a love
towards you, I will not write any
more sharply unto you about this
matter, though I very well might;
but now I have done so ; lest be
ing a condemned man, I should
seem to prescribe to you as an
Apostle.
12 I have "great knowledge in
God; but I 19 refrain myself, lest
I should perish in my boasting.
13 For now I ought the more
to fear; and not to hearkento those
that would puff me up.
14 For they that speak to me,
in my praise, chasten me.
15 For I indeed 17 desire to suf.
fer, but I cannot tell whether I
am worthy so to do.
16 18 And this desire, though to
others it does not appear, yet to
myself it is for that very reason
the more violent. I have, there
fore, need of 19 moderation ; by
which the prince of this world is
destroyed.
17 Am I not able to write to
you of heavenly things!—But I
fear lest I should harm you, who
are yet but babes in Christ: (ex
cuse me this care;) and lest per
chance being not able to receive
them, ye should be choaken with
them.
18 For even I myself, although
I am in bonds, 29 yet am not there
fore able to understand heavenly
things:
19 As the places of the angels,
and the several companiesof them,
* powerful : * whom I am per- under their respective princes;
* Your benevolence.
*Imitators. 6 When.
* Deacons.
Wossius in loc. vid. aliter Cotelerium.
do.
et Usserium in loc.
* Wid. Annot. Wossii in loc.
* According to God,
* Flee from.
* As also the bishop like Jesus Christ the Son of the Father.
*Habit of body, is great instruction.
*I understand many things.
19 Mildness.
* Wid. Wossium in loc.
7 Wid Wossium in loc.
10 A church is not called. 11 So
13 Power. 14 Wid. Wossium
10 Measure. 17 Love.
20 Orders.
173
Warns against heresy.
things visible and invisible; but
in these I am yet a learner.
20 For many things are want
ing to us, that we come not short
of God.
CHAP. II.
1 Warns them against heretics, 4 exhorts
them to humility and unity, 10
briefly sets before them the true doc
trine concerning Christ.
EXHORT you therefore, or
rather not I, but the love of
Jesus Christ; that ye use none
but christian nourishment ; ab
staining from pasture which is of
another kind, I mean heresy.
2 1 For they that are heretics,
confound together the doctrine of
Jesus Christ, with their own poi
son : * whilst they seem worthy of
belief:
3. As men give a deadly potion
mixed with sweet wine ; which he
who drinks of, does with the
treacherous pleasure sweetly drink
in his own death.
4. Wherefore guard yourselves
against such persons. And that
you will do if you are not puffed
up ; but continue inseparable from
Jesus Christ our God, and from
your bishop, and from the com
mands of the Apostles.
5 * He that is within the altar is
pure ; but he that is without, that
is, that does any thing without the
bishop, the presbyters, and dea
cons, is not pure in his conscience.
6 Not that I know there is any
thing of this nature among you ;
but I fore-arm you, as being great
ly beloved by me, foreseeing the
snares of the devil.
7 Wherefore putting on meek
ness, renew yourselves in faith,
that is, the flesh of the Lord ; and
TRALLIANS. Eachorts to humility.
in charity, that is, the blood of
Jesus Christ.
8 Let no man have any “grudge
against his neighbour. Give no
occasion to the Gentiles; lest by
means of a few foolish men, the
whole congregation of God be evil
spoken of
9 Forwoe to that man "through
whose vanity my name is blas
phemed by any.
10 Stop your ears therefore, as
often as any one shall speak" con
trary to Jesus Christ; who was
of the race of David, of the Wir.
gin Mary.
11 Who was truly born and
did eat and drink; was truly per
secuted under Pontius Pilate ; was
truly crucified and dead; both
those in heaven and on earth, and
under the earth, 7 being spectators
of it.
12 Who was also truly raised
from the dead 8 by his Father,
after the same manner as * he will
also raise up us who believe in
him by Christ Jesus; without
whom we have no true life.
13 But if, as some who are
Atheists, that is to say infidels,
pretend, that he only seemed to
suffer: (they themselves only
seeming to exist) why then am I
bound –Why do I desire to fight
with beasts?—Therefore do I die
in vain: therefore I will not speak
falsely against the Lord.
14 Flee therefore these evil
10 sprouts which bring forth dead
ly fruit; of which if any one taste,
he shall presently die.
15 For these are not the plants
of the Father; seeing if they were,
they would appear to be the bran
ches of the cross, and their fruit
*Wid. de hoc loco conjecturas Vossii, Cotelerii, et Junii apud Usserium.
Comp. Epist. Intercol. in loc. et Voss. Annot. in Epist. ad Phil. p. 281,
* Being believed for their dignity. *Wid. Usserii Obs. Marg. Comp. Cote
ler. ib. * Any thing. *Through whom in vanity, Isaiah, lii. 5. "With
- § * Seeing, or looking on. *His Father raising him. "The Father.
ants.
174
unity, and prayer
would be incorruptible; by which
be invites you through his passion,
who are members of him.
16 For the head cannot be with
out its members, God having pro
mised a union, that is himself.
CHAP. III.
He again ca:horts to unity ; and desires
their prayers for himself and for his
church at Antioch.
SALUTE you from Smyrna,
1 together with the churches of
God that are present with me ;
who have refreshed me in all
things, both in the flesh and in the
spirit.
2 My bonds, which I carry
about me for the sake of Christ,
(beseeching him that I may attain
unto God) exhort you, that you
continue in * concord among your
selves, and in prayer with one ano
ther.
3 For it becomes every one of
you, especially the presbyters, to
refresh the bishop, to the honour
of the Father of Jesus Christ and
of the Apostles.
4 I beseech you, that you
hearken to me in love; that I
ROMANS. for the Church.
may not *by those things which
I write, rise up in witness against
you.
5 Pray also for me; who
through the mercy of God stand
in need of your prayers, that I
may be worthy of the portion
which I am about to obtain, that
I be not found a reprobate.
6 The love of those who are at
Smyrna and Ephesus salute you.
Remember in your prayers the
church of Syria, from which I am
not worthy to be called, being one
of the least 4 of it.
7 Fare ye well in Jesus Christ;
being subject to your bishop as to
the command of God; and so like
wise to the presbytery.
8 Love every one his brother
with an "unfeigned heart. • My
soul be your expiation, not only
now, but when I shall have attain
ed unto God; for I am yet under
danger.
9 But the Father is faithful in
Jesus Christ, to fulfil both mine
and your petition; in whom may
ye be found unblamable.
‘ſ 7b the Tralliams.
–0–
The EPISTLE of IGNATIUS to the ROMANS.
CHAP. L.
He testifies his desire to see, and *i.
hopes of suffering for Christ, 5 which
he earnestly entreats them not to pre
vent, 10 but to pray for him, that
God would strengthen him to the
combat.
GNATIUS, 7 who is also called
Theophorus, to the church
which has obtained mercy 8 from
the majesty of the Most High
Father, and his only 9 begotten
Son Jesus Christ; beloved, and
illuminated 19 through the will of
him who willeth all things which
are according to the love of Jesus
Christ our "God which also pre
sides in the * place of the region
* i.e. The delegates of the church. * The concord of you. * Be a
testimony among you, writing. * Them. * Undivided. 6 Wid.
Annot. Vossii et Coteler, in loc. "Wid. Pearson. Wind. Ignat. par 2. ch. xvi.
. 214. * In. 9 Omitted, Gr. 10 In. * God; which also presides in the
p
É. of the region of the Romans, worthy of God; most decent, most
lessed, most praised, most worthy to obtain what it desires; most pure,
most charitable, called by the name of Christ and the Father; Gr. 12 Type
of the chorus, i.e. the church of the Romans. See Voss. Annot. in loc.
175
Hopes to suffer
of the Romans; and which I
salute in the name of Jesus Christ,
(* as being) united both in flesh
and spirit to all his commands,
and 8 filled with the grace of God;
* (all joy) in Jesus Christ our
God.
2 * Forasmuch as I have at last
* obtained through my prayers to
God, to see your 7 faces, 8 which
I much desired to do; being bound
in Jesus Christ, I hope ere long
to salute you, if it shall be the will
° of God to grant me to attain unto
the end I long for.
3 For the beginning is well
disposed, if I shall but have grace,
without hindrance, to receive
10 what is appointed for me.
4 But I fear your love, lest it
do me an injury. For it is easy
for you to do what you please; but
it 11 will be hard for me to attain
unto God, if you spare me.
5 But I 12 would not that ye
shouldpleasemen, but God 18whom
also ye do please. For neither
shall I hereafter have such an op
portunity 14 of going unto God;
nor will you if ye shall now be
silent, ever be entituled to a better
work. For if you shall be silent
15 in my behalf, I shall be made
partaker of God.
6 But if you shall love my
1° body, I shall have my course
again to run. Wherefore ye can
not do me a greater kindness, than
to suffer me to be sacrificed unto
God, now that the altar is already
prepared:
* Also.
filled. Gr.
pure, or immaculate joy.)
ãod.’
10.My lot. ii Is.
unto. 15 From me.
5 Gr.
10 Flesh.
FOMANS.
*The Son of the Father; to those who are—Gr.
*(Being absolutely separated from any other colour; much
Wid. Woss. Annot. in loc.
*And have received even more than I asked, being bound.
1* I Will not ºyou as men. Gr.
* Being become a chorus.
for Christ's sake.
7 That 17 when ye shall be ga
thered together in love, ye may
18give thanksto theFatherthrough
Christ Jesus; that he has vouch
safed 19 to bring a bishop of Syria
unto you, being called from the
east unto the west.
8 For it is good for me to set
from the world, unto God; that I
may rise again unto him.
9 Ye have never envied any
one ; ye have taught other. I
would therefore that ye 20 should
now do those things yourselves,
which in your instructions you
have * prescribed to others.
10 Only pray for me, that God
would give me both inward and
outward strength, that I may not
only say, but will ; nor be only
called a christian, but be found
One.
11 For if I shall be found a
christian, I may then deservedly
be called one ; and be thought
faithful, when I shall no longer
appear to the world.
12 Nothing is 22 good, that is
seen.
13 For even our God, Jesus
Christ, now that he is in the Fa
ther, does so much the more ap
pear.
14 A christian is not a work of
* opinion; but of greatness of
mind, (* especially when he is
hated by the world.)
CHAP. II.
Expresses his great desire and determina
tion to suffer martyrdom.
* Wholly
7 Worthy of
9. Gr.
18As. * Attaining
18 Sing. 19 That
a bishop of Syria should be found. * That those thing.also should be firm.
* Commanded. Vid. Annot. Userii in loc. N. 26, 27. * Nothing that is seen
is eternal: for the things which are seen are temporal, but the things that
are not seen are eternal. Gr. * Persuasion, or silence. Gr. * (Desunt, Gr.)
176
Earnestly desires
WRITE to the churches, and
! signify to them all, that I am
willing to die for God, unless you
* hinder me.
2 I beseech you that you “shew
not an unseasonable good will to
wards me. Suffer me to be food
to the wild beasts; by whom I
shall attain unto God.
3 For I am the wheat of God ;
and I shall be ground by the teeth
of the wild beasts, that I may be
found the pure bread “of Christ.
4 Rather "encourage thebeasts,
that they may become my sepul
chre; and may leave nothing of
my body; that being dead I may
not be troublesome to any.
5 Then shall I be truly the dis
ciple of Jesus Christ, when the
world shall not see so much as my
body. Pray therefore unto Christ
for me, that by these instruments
I may be made the sacrifice "of
God.
6 I do not, as Peter and Paul,
command you. They were Apos
tles, I a condemned man; they
were free, but I am even to this
day a servant :
7 But if I shall suffer, I shall
then become the freeman of Jesus
Christ, and shall rise 'free. And
now, being in bonds, I learn, not
to desire * anything.
8 From Syria even unto Rome,
I fight with beasts both by sea
and land; both night and day:
being bound to ten leopards, that
is to say, to such a band of sol
diers; who, though treated with
ROMANS. martyrdom.
all manner of kindness, are the
worse for it.
9 But I am the more instructed
by their injuries; * yet am I not
therefore justified.
10 May I enjoy the wild beasts
that are prepared for me ; which
also I wish may "exercise all
their fierceness upon me.
11 And whom for that end I
will "encourage, that they may be
sure to devour me, and not serve
me as they have done some, whom
out of fear they have not touched.
But, and if they will not do it
willingly, I will provoke them toit.
12 Pardon me in this matter;
I know what is profitable for me.
Now I begin to * be a disciple.
Nor “shall anything move me,
whether visible or invisible, that
I may attain to Jesus Christ.
13 Let fire, and the cross ; let
the “companies of wild beasts;
* let breakings of bones and tear
ing of members; let the "shat
tering in pieces of the whole body,
and all the wicked 17 torments of
the devil come upon me; only let
* me enjoy Jesus Christ.
14 All the "ends of the world,
and the kingdoms "of it, will pro
fit me nothing: I would rather
die “for Jesus Christ, than rule
to the utmost ends of the earth.
*Him I seek who died for us;
him I desire, that rose again for
us. This is the *gain that is laid
up for me.
15 Pardon me, my brethren,
ye shall not hinder me from living:
* Wid. Usser. Annot. N. 31. *Forbid me. * Be not * Wid Lat. Wet.
Interps. et Annot. Usser. N. 32. *Flatter. " Desunt. Gr. 7 Free in him.
Gr. * Any worldly or vain things. Gr. 91 Cor. iv. 4, 19 Vid. Voss, in
loc. Usser. Annot. N. 48. May be ready for me. Gr.
48.
or rage.
17 Ib. N. 57.
* Gr. unto.
* Luke, xiv. 27.
*That I may enjoy.
*Wid. Coteler. in loc. Rom. viii. 38, 39.
* Let tearings, and rendings. Gr.
* Usser. Annot. N.
*Force,
* Wid. Usser. Annot. N. 56.
* Gr. Pleasures. . " Of this age.
*For what is a man profited if he shall gain the whole world
and lose his own soul. Gr. Add. *Usury. Gr. Vid. Voss. Correct. p. 30].
23 177
Further desires
*Nor seeing I desire to go to God,
may you separate me from him,
for the sake of this world; nor
reduce me by any of the * desires
of it. Suffer me to * enter into
pure light : Where being come, I
shall be indeed the “servant of
* God.
16 Permit me to imitate the
passion of my God. If any one
has him within himself, let him
consider what I desire ; and let
him have compassion on me, as
knowing "how I am straightened.
CHAP. III.
Further expresses his desire to suffer.
HE prince of this worldwould
fain carry me away, and cor
rupt 'my resolution towards my
God. Let none of you “therefore
help *him: Rather do ye join with
me, that is, with God.
2 Do not speak with Jesus
Christ, and yet covet the world.
Let not any envy dwell with you ;
No not though I myself when I
shall be come unto you, should
exhort you to it, yet do not ye
hearken to me; but rather believe
what I now write to you.
3 For though I am alive at the
writing this, yet my desire is to
die. ... My love is crucified; "(and
the *fire that is within me does
not desire any water; but being
alive and *springing within me,
says,) Come to the Father.
4 Itake no pleasure in the food
ROMANS. to suffer.
of corruption, nor in the pleasures
of this life.
5 I desire the bread of God
18which isthe flesh of Jesus Christ,
(“of the seed of David ; and the
drink that I long for) is his blood,
which is incorruptible love.”
6 I have no desire to live any
longer after the manner of men,
"neither shall I, if you consent.
Be ye therefore willing, that ye
yourselves also may be "pleasing
to God. I*exhort you "in a few
words; I pray you believe me.
7 Jesus Christ will shew yon
that I speak truly. My mouth is
without deceit, and the Father
hath truly spoken "by it. Pray
therefore for me, that I may ac
complish what I desire.
8 I have not written to you
after the flesh, but according to
the will of God. If I shall suffer,
* ye have loved me: but if I shall
be rejected, *ye have hated me.
9 Remember in your prayers
the church of Syria, which now
enjoys God for its shepherd in
stead of me: *Let Jesus Christ
only * oversee it, and your cha
rity.
10 But I am even ashamed to
be reckoned as one of them : For
neither am I worthy, being the
least among them, and as one
* born out of due season. But
through mercy I have obtained to
be somebody, if I shall get unto
God.
1 Nor desire that I should die, who seek to go to God, rejoice not in the
world. Gr.
Woss, in loc.
* By matter. *Take: lay hold on.
"What things constrain me.
* Man.
7 Mind : will.
* Wid. Annot.
8 Who are
present. * Vid. Voss. Annot. in loc. 19 (And there is not any fire within me
that loves matter, but living and speaking water saying within me. Gr.)
11 Cotelerius aliter explicat. Annot. in loc. Usser. N. 79. *Voss, in loc.
Contr. Coteler. q. v. 19The heavenly bread which is. Gr. *(The Son of
God made in these last times of the seed of David and Abraham, and the
drink of God that I long for. Gr.) *Gr. Adds, and perpetual life. "And
that shall be. 17 Willed. *Wid. Annot. Voss, in loc. *By a short letter.
* In ºn Ye have willed it. * Wiz. as unworthy to suffer. * Wid. Wet.
Wuterp. Lat. *Shall oversee it. * 1 Cor. xv. 8.
178
Commends their
11 My spirit salutes you; and
the charity of the churches that
have received me in the name of
Jesus Christ; not as a passenger.
For even they that were not near
to me in the way, have gone be
fore me to the next city to meet
Ine.
12 These things I write to you
from Smyrna, by the most worthy
of the church of Ephesus.
13 There is now with me, to
ther with many others, Crocus,
most beloved of me. As for those
which are 1 come from Syria, and
I’HILADELPHIANS. bishop.
are gone before me to Rome, to
the glory of God, I suppose you
are not ignorant of them.
14 Ye shall therefore signify to
them, that I draw near, for they
are all worthy both of God and
of you : Whom it is fit that you
refresh in all things.
15 This have I written to you,
the day before the ninth of the
calends of September. "Be strong
unto the end, in the patience of
Jesus Christ.8
‘ſ To the Romans.
—º-
The EPISTLE of IGNATIUS to the PHILADELPHIANS.
CHAP. I.
Commends their bishop whom they had
sent unto him, 5 warns them against
divisions and schism.
GNATIUS, who is also called
Theophorus, to the church of
God the Father, and our Lord
Jesus Christ, which is at Philadel
phia in Asia; which has obtained
mercy, being fixed in the concord
of God, and rejoicing “evermore
in the passion of our Lord, and
beingfulfilled inall mercy through
his resurrection : Which also I
salute in the blood ofJesus Christ,
* which is our eternal and unde
filed joy; especially if they are at
unity with the bishop, and pres
byters who are with him, and the
deacons appointed "according to
the 'mind of Jesus Christ; whom
he has settled according to his own
will in all firmness by his Holy
Spirit:
2 Which bishop I know ob
*Wid, Wet. Interp. Lat. That is the xxxiiid of August. Gr.
*Wid. Wet. Interp. Lat.
9In.
Gr., “Inseparably.
*Ministry belonging to the public.
tained “that great ministry among
you, not of himself, neither by
men, nor out of vain glory; but
°by the love of God the Father,
and our Lord Jesus Christ.
3 Whose moderation " I ad
mire; who by his silence is able
to do more than * others with all
their vain talk. For he is fitted
to the commands, as the harp to
its strings.
4. Wherefore my soul eteems
his mind towards God most hap.
py, knowing it to be fruitful in all
virtue, and perfect; full of con
stancy, free from passion, “and
according to all the moderation of
the living God.
5. Wherefore as becomes the
children both of the light and of
truth; flee divisions and false doc.
trines; but where your shepherd
is, there do ye, as sheep, follow
after.
6. For there are many wolves
* who seem worthy of belief, that
with a “false pleasure lead captive
*Amen.
6 In. 7 Will, order.
*Has struck me with wonder.
"Those that speak vain things. *In. “Wid. Vossii Annot inloc, iſºvii
179
Eachorts to
those that run in the course of
God; but in the concord they
shall find no place.
7 Abstain therefore from those
evil herbs which Jesus Christ does
not dress; because such are not
the plantation of the Father. Not
that I have found any division
among you, but rather all manner
of 1 purity.
8 For as many as are of God,
and of Jesus Christ, are also with
their bishop. And as many as
shall with repentance return into
the unity of the church, even these
shall also be the servants of God,
that they may live according to
Jesus Christ.
9 Be not deceived, brethren ;
if any one follows him that makes
a schism in the church, he shall
not inherit the kingdom of God.
If any one walks after any other
opinion, he agrees not with the
passion of Christ. -
10 Wherefore let it be your en
deavour to partake all of the same
holy eucharist.
11 For there is but one flesh of
our Lord Jesus Christ; and one
cup in the unity of his blood; one
altar;
12. As also there is one bishop,
together with his presbytery, and
the deacons my fellow-servants:
that so whatsoever ye do, ye may
do it according to the will of God.
CHAP. II.
Desires their prayers, and to be united,
but not to Judaize.
Y brethren, the love I have
towards you makes me the
‘more large; and having a great
joy in you, I endeavour to secure
you against danger; or rather not
I, but Jesus Christ ; in whom
"Cleanliness made by sifting.
in loc. Imperfect.
expected him.
* Weak.
PHILADELPHIANS.
*Very much poured out.
“Or preached of the Gospel; and hoped in him, and
* Wid. Woss, in loc.
union.
being bound I the more fear, as
being yet only *on the way to suf
fering.
2. But your prayer to God shall
make me perfect, that I may at
tain to that portion, which by
God's mercy is allotted to me:
Fleeing to the Gospel as to the
flesh of Christ; and to the Apos.
tles as to the presbytery of the
church.
3 Let us also love the prophets,
for as much as they also have “led
us to the Gospel, and to hope in
*Christ, and to expect him.
4 In whom also believing they
were saved in the unity of Jesus
Christ; being holy men, worthy
to be loved, and had in wonder;
5 Who have receivedtestimony
from Jesus Christ, and are num
bered in the Gospel of our com
mon hope.
6 But if any one shall preach
"the Jewish law unto you, heark
en not unto him ; for it is better
to receive the doctrine of Christ
from one that has been circum
cised, than Judaism from one that
has not.
7 Butif either the one, or other,
do not speak concerning Christ
Jesus, they seem to me to be but
as monuments and sepulchres of
the dead, upon which are written
only the names of men.
8 Flee therefore the wicked
arts and snares of the prince of
this world; lest at any time being
oppressed by his cunning ye
grow “cold in your charity. But
come all together into the same
place with an undivided heart.
9 And I bless my God that I
have a good conscience towards
you, and that no one among you
has whereof to boast either openly
or privately, that I have been bur
* Wid. Woss.
* Judaism. " Opinion: council
180
Echorts to
thensome to him in much or
little.
10 And I wish to all among
whom I have conversed, that it
may not turn to a witness against
them.
11 For although some would
have deceived me according to the
flesh, yet the spirit, being from
God, is not deceived; for it knows
both whence it comes and whither
it goes, and reproves the secrets of
the heart.
12 I cried whilst I was among
you; I spake with a loud voice:
attend to the bishop, and to the
presbytery, and to the deacons.
13 Now some supposed that I
spake this as foreseeing the divi
sion "that should come among you.
14 But he is my witness for
whose sake I am in bonds that I
knew nothing from any man.
But the spirit spake, saying on this
wise : Do nothing without the
bishop :
15 Keep your * bodies as the
temples of God : Love Unity;
Flee divisions; Be the followers
of Christ, as he was ofhis Father.
16 I therefore did as became
me, as a man composed to unity.
For where there is division, and
wrath, God dwelleth not.
17 But the Lord forgives all
that repent, if they * return to the
unity of God, and to the council
of the bishop.
18 For I trust in the grace of
Jesus Christ “that he will free you
from every bond.
19 Nevertheless I exhort you
that you do nothing out of strife,
but according to the instruction of
Christ.
20 Because I have heard of
some who say; unless I find it
written in the * originals, I will
not believe it to be written in the
* Of some. * Flesh.
Wid. Voss. Annot. in loc.
* Repent.
PHILADELPHIANS.
* Who will loose from you.
* Untouched.
union.
Gospel. And when I said, It is
written; they answered what lay
before them in their corrupted co
ples.
21 But to me Jesus Christ is
instead of all the uncorrupted mo
numents in the world ; together
with those "undefiled monuments,
his cross, and death, and resurrec
tion, and the faith which is by him;
by which I desire, through your
prayers, to be justified.
22*. The priests indeed are
good; but much betteris the High
Priest to whom the Holy of Holies
has been committed ; and who
alone has been entrusted with the
secrets of God.
23 Heis the door of the Father;
by which Abraham, and Isaac,
and Jacob, and all the prophets,
enter in ; as well as the Apostles,
and the church.
24 And all these things tend to
the unity which is of God. How
beit the Gospel has somewhat in it
far above all other dispensations;
namely, the appearance of our Sa
viour, the Lord Jesus Christ, his
passion and resurrection.
25 For the beloved prophets
referred to him; but the gospel
is the perfection of incorruption.
All therefore together are good, if
ye believe with charity.
CHAP III.
1, ſorºris them he had heard that the per
secution was stopped at Antioch, and di
rects them to send a messenger hitherto
to congratulate with the church.
OW as concerning the
church of Antioch which is
in Syria, seeing I am told that
through your prayers and the
bowels which ye have towards it in
Jesus Christ, it is in peace; it will
become you, as the church of God,
*Archives,
181
On the person
to ordain some 1 deacon to go to
them thither as the ambassador of
}od; that he may rejoice with
them when they meet together,
and glorify God's name.
2 Blessed be that man in Jesus
Christ, who shall be found worthy
of such a ministry; and ye your
selves also shall be glorified.
3 Now if you be willing, it is
not impossible for you to do this
for the grace of God; as also the
other neighbouring churches have
sent them, some bishops, some
priests and deacons.
4 As concerning Philo the dea
con of Cilicia, a most worthy
* man, he still ministers unto me
in the word of God: together
with Rheus * of Agathopolis a sin
gular good person, who has fol
SMYRNAEANS. of Christ.
lowed me even from Syria, not
regarding his life: These also bear
witness unto you.
5 And I myself give thanks to
God for you, that you receive them
as the Lord shall receive you. But
for those that dishonoured them,
may they be forgiven through the
grace of Jesus Christ.
6 The charity of the brethren
that are at Troas salutes you: from
whence also I now write by Bur
rhus, who was sent together with
me by those of Ephesus and
Smyrna, for respect sake.
7 May our Lord Jesus Christ
honour them; in whom they hope,
both in flesh, and soul, and spirit;
in faith, in love, in unity. Fare
well in Christ Jesus our common
hope.
–6–
The EPISTLE of IGNATIUS to the SMYRNAEANS.
CHAP. I.
1 Declares his joy for their firmness
in the Gospel. 4 Enlarges on the per
son of Christ, against such as pretend
that Christ did not really suffer.
GNATIUS, who is also called
Theophorus, to the church of
God the Father, and of the belov
ed Jesus Christ, which God hath
mercifully “blessed with every
good gift; being filled with faith
and charity, so that this is wanting
in no gift; most worthy of God,
and fruitful in saints: the church
which is at Smyrna in Asia; all
joy, through his immaculate spi
rit, and the word of God.
2 I glorify God, even Jesus
Christ, who has given you such
wisdom
* Messenger or Minister. * Wid. Wossius, a martyr or confessor.
* Wid. Wossius Annot. in Ep. ad Smyrn.
not. in loc.
iii. v. 11. “Comp. 1 Cor. vii. 25.
3 For I have observed that you
are settled in an immovable faith,
as if you were nailed to the cross
of our Lord Jesus Christ, both in
the flesh and in the spirit; and are
confirmed inlove through theblood
of Christ; being fully persuaded
of those things which relate * unto
our Lord.
4 Who truly was of the race
of David according to the flesh,
but the Son of God according to
the will and power of God;
truly born of the Virgin, and
baptised of John ; that so “all
righteousness might be fulfilled by
him.
5 He was also truly crucified
by Pontius Pilate, and Herod the
Tetrarch, being nailed for usin the
flesh; by the fruits of which we
Vid An
p. 261. See chap.
* Unto the Lord. 8 Matt. iii. 15
182
Exhorts against
are, even by his most blessed pas
sion.
6 Thathemight set up a token
for all ages through his resurrec
tion, to all his holy andfaithfulser
vants, whether they be Jews or
Gentiles, in one bodyof hischurch.
7 Now all these things he suf
feredfor us that we might be saved.
And he suffered truly, as he also
truly raised up himself: And not,
as some unbelievers say, that he
only seemed to suffer, they them
selves only seeming to be.”
8 And as they believe so shall
it happen unto them; when being
divested of the body they shall be.
come * mere spirits.
9 But I know that even after
his resurrection he was in the
flesh; and I believe that he is
still so.
10 And when he came to those
who were with Peter, 4 he said
unto them, Take, handle me, and
See that I am not an incorporeal
damon. And straightway they
felt and believed ; being convinced
both by his flesh and spirit.
11 For this cause they despised
death, and were found to be above
5 it.
12 But after his resurrection
he did eat and drink with them,
as he was flesh; although as to
his Spirit he was united to the
Father.
OHAP. II.
1 Erhorts them against heretics. 8 The
danger of their doctrine.
OW these things, beloved, I
° put you in mind of, not
questioningbut thatyou yourselves
also 7 believe that they are so.
2. But I arm you before-hand
against certain beasts in the shape
of men whom you must not only
SMYRNAEANS. heretica.
not receive, but if it be possible
must not meet with.
3 Only you must pray for them,
that if it be the will of God they
may repent ; which yet will be
very hard. But of this our Lord
Jesus Christ has the power, who
is our true life.
4 For if all these things were
done only in shew by our Lord,
then do I also seem only to be
bound.
5 And why have I given up my
self to death, to the fire, to the
sword, to wild beasts
6 But now the nearer I am to
the sword, the nearer I am to
God: when I shall come among
the wild beasts, I shall come to
God.
7 Only in the name of Jesus
Christ, I undergo all, to suffer to
gether with him ; he who was
made a perfect man strengthening
Ine.
8 Whom some not knowing, do
deny ; or rather have been denied
by him, being the advocates of
death, rather than of the truth.
Whom neither the prophecies,
nor the law of Moses have per
suaded; nor the Gospel itself even
to this day, nor the sufferings of
every one of us.
9 For they think also the same
things of us. For what does a
man profit me, if he shall praise
me, and blaspheme my Lord; not
confessing that he *was truly made
man 7
10 Now he that doth not say
this, does in effect deny him, and
is in death. But for the names of
such as do this, they being unbe
lievers, I thought it not fitting to
write them unto you.
11 Yea, God forbid that I
should make any mention of them,
* Wid. Voss. Annot. in loc. *i.e. Christians. *Incorporeal and daemoniac.
See Dr. Grabe Spicileg. tom. ii. p. 26.
* Had true flesh.
*Ex Evang. Sec. Hebr.
*Admonish. " Have so.
* Death.
183
Danger of heresy.
till they shall repent to a true be
lief of Christ's passion, which is
eur resurrection.
12 Let no man deceive him
self; both the things which are
in heaven and the glorious angels,
and princes, whether visible or in
visible, if they believe not in the
blood of Christ, 1 it shall be to
them to condemnation.
13 2 He that is able to receive
this, let him receive it. Let no
man's 8 place or state in the world
puff him up : that which is worth
all his faith and charity, to which
nothing is to be preferred.
14 But consider those who are
of a different opinion from us, as
to what concerns the grace ofJesus
Christ which is come unto us,
how contrary they are to the de
sign of God.
15 They have no regard to
charity, no care of the widow,
the fatherless, and the oppressed;
of the bond or free, of the hungry
or thirsty.
16 They abstain from the eu
charist, and from 4 the public of
fices; because they confess not
the eucharist to be the flesh of
our Saviour Jesus Christ ; which
suffered for our sins, and which
the Father of his goodness, raised
again from the dead.
17 And for this cause contra
dicting the gift of God, they die
in their disputes: * but much bet
ter would it be for them to 9 re
ceive it, that they might one day
rise through it.
18 It will therefore become you
to abstain from such persons; and
not to speak with them neither in
private nor in public.
19 But to hearken to the pro.
phets, and especially to the Gos
pel, in which both Christ's passion
SMYRNAEANS.
|
|
On dwty
is manifested unto us, and his rº
surrection perfectly declared.
20 But flee all divisions, as the
beginning of evils.
CHAP. III.
1 Exhorts them to follow their bishop
and pastors ; but especially their
bishop. 6 Thanks them for their
kindness, 11 and acquaints them with
the ceasing of the persecution at An
tioch.
EE that ye all follow your
bishop, as Jesus Christ, the
Father; and the presbytery, as
the Apostles. And reverence the
deacons, as the command of God.
2 Let no man do any thing of
what belongs to the church sepa
rately from the bishop.
3 Let that eucharist be looked
upon as well established, which is
either offered by the bishop, or by
him to whom the bishop has given
his consent.
4. Wheresoever the bishop shall
appear, there let the 7 people also
be: as where Jesus Christis, there
is the Catholic church.
5 It is not lawful without the
bishop, neither to baptize, nor
8 to celebrate the Holy Commu
nion: but whatsoever he shall
approve of, that is also pleasing
unto God; that so whatever is
done, may be sure and well done.
6 For what remains, it is very
reasonable that we should "repent
whilst there is yet time to return
unto God.
7 It is a good thing to have
a due regard both to God, and to
the bishop : he that honours the
bishop, shall be honoured of God.
But he that does anything with
out his knowledge, 10 ministers
unto the devil.
8 Let allthingsthereforeabound
* It is. * Matt. xix. 12.
in loc. Or, Prayers.
a love-feast.
* Wid. Epist. Interpol.
* Wid. Coteler. Annot.
* Return to a sound mind.
* Wid. Annot. Coteler.
* Love. 7 Multitude. * Make
”Toes worship.
184
to the bishop
to you in charity; seeing that ye
are worthy.
9 Ye have refreshed me in all
things; so shall Jesus Christ you.
Ye have loved me both when I
was present with you, and now
being absent, ye cease not to do so.
10 May God be your reward,
from whom whilst ye undergo all
things, ye shall attain unto him.
11 Ye have done well in that ye
have received Philo, and Rheus
1 Agathopus, who followed me
* for the word of God, as the
deacons of Christ our God.
12 Who also gave thanks unto
the Lord for you, forasmuch as
ye have refreshed them in all
* things. 4 Nor shall any thing
that you have done be lost to
you.
13 My 5 soul be for yours, and
my bonds which ye have not de
spised, nor been ashamed of.
Wherefore neither shall Jesus
Christ, our perfect faith, be
ashamed of you.
14 Your prayer is come to the
church of Antioch which is in
Syria. From whence being sent
bound with chains becoming God.
I salute the 6 churches; being not
worthy to be called 7 from thence,
as being the least among them.
15 Nevertheless by the will of
God I have been thought worthy
of this honour ; not for that I
think I have deserved it, but by
the grace of God.
16 Which I wish may be per
fectly given unto me, that through
your prayers I may attain unto
łod
17 And therefore that your
work may be fully accomplished
both upon earth and in heaven ;
it will be fitting, and for the ho
* Wid. Voss. Annot. in loc.
* Spirit. 6 All the.
in loc. "Bulk, greatness.
SMYRNAEANS.
2 Unto.
7 i.e. the bishop of that church.
19 Help you.
and pastors.
nour of God, 8 that your church
appoint some worthy delegate,
who being come as far as Syria,
may rejoice together with them
that they are in peace ; and that
they are again restored to their
former 9 state, and have again re
ceived their proper body.
18 Wherefore I should think
it a worthy action, to send some
one from you with an epistle, to
congratulate with them their peace
in God; and that through your
prayers they have now gotten to
their harbor.
19 For in as much as ye are
perfect yourselves, you ought to
think those things that are per
fect. For when you are desirous
to do well, God is ready to 10 en
able you thereunto.
20 The love of the brethren
that are at Troas salute you;
from whence I write to you by
Burrhus whom you sent with me,
together with the Ephesians your
brethren ; and who has in all
things refreshed me.
21 And I would to God that all
would imitate him, as being a
pattern of the ministry of God.
May his grace fully reward him.
22 I salute your very worthy
bishop, and your venerable pres
bytery; and your deacons, my
fellow-servants; and all of you in
general, and every one in particu
lar, in the name of Jesus Christ,
and in his flesh and blood ; in his
passion and resurrection both
fleshy and spiritually; and in
11the unity of God with you.
23 Grace be with you, and
mercy, and peace, and patience,
for evermore.
24 I salute the families of my
brethren, with their wives and
3 Ways. “Wid. Epist. Interpol
* Vid. Voss. Annol.
* Wid. Voss. Annot. in loe.
24 l 85
Ig,walius eachorts
children; and the * virgins that
are called widows. Be strong in
the power of the Holy Ghost.
Philo, who is present with me
salutes you.
25 Isalute the house of Tavias,
and pray that it may be strength:
ened in faith and charity, both of
flesh and spirit.
POLYCARP. Polycarp
26 I salute Alce my well-be
loved, 2 together with the incom
parable Daphnus, and Eutechnus,
and all by name.
27 Farewell in the grace of
God.
"I To the Smyrnaeans from Troas.
–Q-
The EPISTLE of IGNATIUS to POLYCARP.
CHAP. I.
Riesses God for the firm establishment of
Polycarp in thefaith, and gives him
particular directions for improving it.
GNATIUS, who is also called
Theophorus, to Polycarp, bi
shop of the church 8 which is at
Smyrna; their overseer, but rather
himself overlooked by God the
Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ:
all happiness.
2 Having knownthat thy mind
towards God, is fixed as it were
upon an immoveable rock; I ex
ceedingly give thanks, that I have
been thought worthy to behold
thy 4 blessed face, in which may I
always rejoice in God.
3 Wherefore I beseech thee by
the grace of God with which thou
art clothed, to press forward in
thy course, and to exhort all
others that they may be saved.
4 Maintain thy place with all
care 5 both of flesh and spirit:
Make it thy endeavour to preserve
unity, than which nothing is bet
ter. Bear with all men, even as
the Lord with thee.
5 Support all in love, as also
thou dost. & Pray without ceas
ing : ask more understanding than
*i.e. The deaconesses.
Add. Coteler. ib.
naeans. “Innocent.
perfusions. * Matt. x. 16.
what thou already hast. Be watch
ful,havingthy spiritalways awake.
6 Speak to every one 7 accord
ing as God shall enable thee.
Bear the 8 infirmities of all, as a
perfect combatant; where the la
bour is great, the gain * is the
InOre.
7 If thou shalt love the good
disciples, what thank is it? But
rather do thou subject to thee
those that are mischievous, in
meekness.
8 Every wound is not healed
with the same plaister: if the
accessions of the disease be vehe
ment, modify them with 10 soft re
medies : be in all things in wise
as a serpent, but harmless as a
dove.
9 For this cause thou art com
posed of flesh and spirit; that
thou mayest modify those things
that appear before thy face.
10 And as for those that are
not seen, pray to God that he
would reveal them unto thee, that
so thou mayst be wanting in
nothing, but mayest abound in
every gift.
11 The times demand thee, as
the pilots the winds; and he that
is tossed in a tempest, the haven
See the reason for the name, Voss. Annot. in loc.
*See Voss. Annot. ex Epist. Interpol.
* Wid. 1 Cor. vii. 34.
Voss. in loc. aliter Wet. Lat. Interpr.
* of the Smyr
* Be at leisure to, etc. " Vid.
*The diseases, "Is much. 19 Su
186
to improve
where he would be ; that thou
mayst attain unto God.
12 Be sober as the combatant
of God : the 1 crown proposed to
thee is immortality, and eternal
life; concerning which thou art
also fully persuaded. I will be
thy surety in all things, and my
bonds, which thou hast loved.
13 Let not those that seem
worthy of credit, but teach other
doctrines, * disturb thee. Stand
firm and immovable, as an anvil
when it is beaten upon.
14 It is the part of a brave
combatant to be 8 wounded, and
yet overcome. But especially we
ought to endure all things for
God's sake, that he may bear with
U18.
15 Be every day “better than
other: consider the times; and
expect him, who is above all time,
eternal, invisible, though for our
sakes made visible: impalpable,
and impassable, yet for us sub
jected to sufferings; enduring all
manner of ways for our salvation.
CHAP. II.
1 Continues his advice, 6 and teaches
him how to advise others. 12 ºn
forces unity and subjection to the
bishop.
ET not the widows be neg
lected : be thou after God,
their guardian.
2 Let nothing be done without
Jhy knowledge and consent ; nei
ther do thou anything but accord
ing to the will of God; as also
thou dost, * with all constancy.
3 Let your assemblies be more
full : inquire into all by name.
4 Overlook not the men and
maid servants ; neither let them
be puffed up; but rather let them
* Wid. Voss. Annot. in loc. Collat. cum Coteler, ib.
* Beaten. “More studious, diligent.
Coteler. in loc. 7 Or, trades.
POLYCARP. his faith.
be the more subject to the glory
of God, that they may obtain
from him a better liberty.
5 Let them not desire to * be
set free at the public cost, that
they be not slaves to their own
lusts.
6 Flee evil 7 arts ; or rather,
make not any mention of them.
7 Say to my sisters, that they
love the Lord ; and be satisfied
with their own husbands, both in
the flesh and spirit.
8 In like manner, exhort my
brethren, in the name of Jesus
Christ, that they love their wives,
even as the Lord the Church.
9 If any man can remain in a
virgin state, * to the honour of
the flesh of Christ, let him remain
without boasting; but if he boast,
he is undone. And if he desire
to be more taken notice of than
the bishop he is corrupted.
10 But it becomes all such as
are married, whether men or wo.
men to come together with the
consent of the bishop, that so
their marriage may be according
to godliness, and not in lust.
11 Let all things be done to the
honour of God.
12 ° Hearken unto the bishop,
that God also may hearken unto
you. My soul be security for
them that submit to their bishop,
with their presbyters and deacons.
And may my portion be together
with theirs in God.
13 Labour with one another;
contend together, run together,
suffer together; sleep together,
and rise together; as the stewards,
and assessors, and ministers of
God.
14 Please him under whom ya
war, and from whom ye receive
* A:aze thee.
* being well settled. * Vid. Annot.
* Vid. Annot. Vossii et Coteler. in loc.
*Observe, from the foregoing verses, that Ignatius here speaks not to
Polycarp, but through him to the Church of Smyrna.
187
Desires to greet
your wages. Let none of you be
found a deserter , but let your
baptism remain, as your arms;
your faith, as your helmet; your
charity, as your spear, your pa
tience, as your whole armour.
15 Let your works be your
| charge, that so you may receive
a suitable reward. Be long suffer
ing therefore towards each other
in meekness; as God is towards
you.
16 Let me have joy of you in
all things.
CHAP. III.
1 Greets Polycarp on the peace of the
church at Antioch : 2 and desires
him to write to that
churches.
OW forasmuch as the church
of Antioch in Lyria, is,” as
I am told, in peace through your
prayers; I also have been the more
comforted * and without care in
God; if so be that by suffering, I
shallattainuntoGod; thatthrough
your prayers I may be four-d a
disciple of Christ.
2 It will be very fit, 0 most
worthy Polycarp, to call a 4 select
council, and choose some one
whom ye particularly love, and
who is patient of labour; that he
may be the messenger of God ;
and that going unto Syria, he may
glorify your incessant love, to the
praise of Christ.
3. A christian has not the power
of himself: but must be always
at leisure for God's service. Now
this work is both God's and
and other
POLYCARP. the churches.
your's : when ye shall have per
fected it.
4 For I trust through the grace
of God that ye are ready to every
good work that is fitting for you in
the Lord.
5 Knowing therefore your
earnest affection for the truth, l
have exhorted you by * these
short letters.
6 But forasmuch as I have not
been able to write to all the
churches, because I must sud
denly sail from Troas to Neapolis;
(for so is the command of those to
whose pleasure I am subject;) do
you write to the churches that are
near you, as being instructed in
the will of God, that they also
may do in like manner.
7 Let those that are able send
° messengers; and let the rest
send their letters by those who
shall be sent by you : that you
may be glorified 7 to all eternity,
of which you are worthy.
8 I salute all by name, parti
cularly the wife of Epitropus,
with all her house and children. I
salute Attalus my well-beloved.
9 I salute him who shall be
thought worthy to be sent by you
into Syria. Let grace be ever
with him, 8 and with Polycarp
who sends him.
10 I wish you all happiness in
our God, Jesus Christ ; in whom
continue, in the unity and protec
tion of God.
11 I salute Alce my well-be
loved. Farewell in the Lord.
‘I To Polycarp.
* That which is committed to your custody, to keep secure.
* In the security of God.
To the Smyrnaeans, and this to himself. See Pearson in
* Wid. Voss. in loc. in the Eternal work.
been manifested unto me.
God. • Viz.
loc. "Footmen.
Unterp. Wid. Voss. Annot.
* It has
*Most becoming
8 Ex. Wet.
188
The EPISTLE of POLYCARP to the PHILIPPLANS,
[The genuineness of this Epistle is controverted, but implicitly believed
by Archbishop Wake, whose translation is below." There is also a
translation by Dr. Cave, attached to his life of Polycarp.]
CHAP. I.
Commends the Philippians for their re
spect to thosc who suffered for the Gos.
pel; and for their own faith.
OLYCARP, and the presby
ters that are with him, to
the church of God which 1 is at
Philippi; mercy unto you and
peace from God Almighty; and
the Lord Jesus Christ, our Saviour,
be multiplied.
2 I rejoiced greatly with you
in our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye
received the images of a true love,
and accompanied, as it behoved
you, those who were in bonds, be
coming saints; which are the
crowns of such as are truly chosen
by God and our Lord :
3. As also that the "root of the
faith which was preached from
ancient times, remains firm in you
to this day; and brings forth fruit
to our Lord Jesus Christ, who suf
fered himself to be brought even
to the death for our sins.
4 * Whom God hath raised up,
having loosed the pains of death,
* whom having not seen, ye love;
in whom though now ye see him
not, yet believing ye rejoice with
joy unspeakable and full of glory.
5 Into which many desire to
enter; * knowing that by grace
ye are saved ; not by works, but
by the will of God through Jesus
Christ.
6 "Wherefore girding up the
loins of your minds; " serve the
Lord with fear, and in truth: lay
ing aside all empty and vain
speech, and the error of many;
*believing in him that raised up
our Lord Jesus Christ from the
dead, and hath given him glory
and a throne at his right hand
7 To whom all things are made
subject, "both that are in heaven,
and that are in earth; whom every
* living creature shall worship';
who shall come to be the judge
of the quick and dead: whose
blood God shall require of them
that believe not in him.
8 But he that raised up "Christ
from the dead, shall also raise up
us in like manner, if we do his
will and walk "according to his
commandments; and love those
things which he loved :
9 Abstaining from all “un
righteousness; * inordinate affec
tion, and love of money; from
evil speaking; false witness; not
rendering evil for evll, or railing
for railing, or striking for strik
ing, or cursing for cursing.
10 But remembering what the
Lord has * taught us saying,
Judge not, and ye shall not be
judged; forgive and ye shall be
forgiven; be ye merciful, and ye
shall obtain mercy; for with the
same measure that ye meet withal,
it shall be measured to you again.
11 And again, that “blessed
are the poor, and they that are
persecuted for righteousness sake;
for theirs is the kingdom of God.
* Sojourneth. *Firm root remains in you. . “Acts xi. 24. “l Pet. i. 8.
*Eph. ii. 8. ..." 1 Pet. i. 13, 7 Psalm ii. 11. * 1 Pet. i. 21. " Phil. ii. 10.
10 Breath. in Him. in In. 13 Injustice. “Eph. iv. 19. Coloss. iii. 5.
1 Pet. iii. 9. *Said to us, teaching, Luke vi. 37. Matt. vii. 1. * Matt. v.
3, 10. Luke vi. 20.
189
Exhorts to
CHAP. II.
2 Exhorts to Faith, Hope, and Charity.
5 Against covetousness, and as to the
duties of husbands, wives, widows, 9
deacons, young men, virgins, and pres
byters.
HESE things, my brethren,
I took not the liberty of my
self to write unto you concerning
righteousness, but you yourselves
before encouraged me to it.
2 For neither can I, nor any
other such as I am, come up to
the wisdom of the blessed and re
nowned Paul : who being himself
in person with those who then
lived, did with all exactness and
soundness teach the word * of
truth; and being gone from you
wrote an * epistle to you.
3 Into which if you look, you
will be able to edify yourselves in
the faith that has been delivered
unto you; which is the mother of
us all; being followed with hope,
and led on by a general love, both
towards God and towards Christ,
and towards our neighbour,
4 For if any man * has these
things he has fulfilled the law of
righteousness : for he that has
charity is far from all sin.
5 But the love of money is the
“root of all evil. Knowing there
fore that as we brought nothing
into this world, so neither may
we carry any thing out ; let us
* arm ourselves with the armour
of righteousness.
6 And teach ourselves first to
walk according to the command
ments of the Lord; and then your
wives to walk likewise "according
to the faith that is given to them;
in "charity, and in purity; loving
their own husbands with all * sin
* nept a\mbetas, concerning Truth.
PHILIPPLANS. social and other
cerity, and all others alike with
all temperance 1 and to bring up
their children in the instruction
* and fear of the Lord.
7 The widows likewise teach
that they be sober as to what con
cerns the faith of the Lord: pray
ing always for all men; being far
from all detraction, evil speaking,
false witness; from covetousness,
and from all evil.
8 Knowing that they are the
altars of God, * who sees all ble
mishes, and from whom nothing
is hid ; who searches out the very
reasonings, and thoughts, and se
crets of our hearts.
9 "I Knowing therefore that
God is not mocked, we ought to
walk worthy both of his command
and of his glory.
10 Also the deacons must be
blameless before ” him, as the
ministers of God in Christ, and
not of men. Not false accusers :
not double tongued ; not lovers
of money; but “moderate in all
things ; compassionate, careful;
walking according to the truth of
the Lord, who was the servant of
all.
11 Whom if we please in this
present world, we shall also be
made partakers of that which is to
come, according as he has pro
mised to us, that he will raise us
from the dead; and that if we
shall walk worthy of him, we shall
also reign together with him, if we
believe.
12 In like manner the younger
men must be unblamable in all
things; above all, taking care of
their purity, and to restrain them:
selves from all evil. For it is good
to be cut off from the lusts that are
* Epistles. Wid. Annot. Coteler.
* Beginning of all troubles, or difficulties, xaxerov:
7 Love.
12 Continent.
in loc. * Be within.
1 Tim. vi. 7. 5 Be armed. ” In.
that he. " His righteousness.
8 Truth. 9 Of the 10 And
190
Christian duties.
in the world; because every such
* lust warreth against the spirit :
* and neither fornicators, nor ef
feminate, nor abusers of them
selves with mankind, shall inherit
the kingdom of God; nor they
who do such things as are foolish
and unreasonable.
13 Wherefore ye must needs
abstain from all these things, be
ing subject to the * priests and
deacons, as unto God and Christ.
14 The virginsadmonish to walk
in a spotless and pure conscience.
15 And let the 4 elders be com
passionate and merciful towards
all; "turning them from their
errors; seeking out those that are
weak; not forgetting the widows,
the fatherless, and the poor; but
always * providing what is good
both in the sight of God and man.
16 Abstaining from all wrath,
respect of persons, and unrighte
ous judginent : and especially be
ing free from all covetousness.
17 Not 7 easy to believe any
thing against any ; not severe in
judgment ; knowing that we are
all debtors in point of sin.
18 If therefore we pray to the
Lord that he would forgive us,
we ought also to forgive others;
for we are all in the sight of our
Lord and God; 8 and must all
stand before the judgment seat of
Christ; and shall every one give
an account * of himself.
19 Let us therefore serve him
in fear, and with all reverence as
both himself hath commanded;
and as the Apostles who have
preached the Gospel unto us, and
the prophets who have foretold
the coming of our Lord have
taught us.
1 Pet. ii. 1 1. " Cor. vi. 9, 10.
* Rom. xii. 17.
& Cor. v. 10.
** 1 Pet. vi. 7.
9 For.
18 Matt. vi. 13.
PHILIPPLANS.
* Elders. “Presbyters.
7 Swiftly believing.
* John iv. 3.
** Matt. xxvi. 41.
On faith.
20 Being zealous of what is
good; abstaining from all offence,
and from false brethren; and from
those who bear the name of Christ
in hypocrisy; who deceive vain
IIlòIl.
CHAP. III.
1 As to faith in our Saviour Christ : kis
nature and sufferings, the resurrection
and judgment. 3 Echorts to prayer
5 and steadfastness in the faith, from
the examples of Christ, 7 and Apostles
and saints, and exhorts to carefulness in
all well-doing.
OR 10 whosoever does not
confess that Jesus Christ is
come in the flesh, he is Antichrist:
and whoever does not confess
* his suffering upon the cross, is
from the devil.
2 And whosoever perverts the
oracles of the Lord to his own
lusts; and says that there shall
neither be any resurrection, nor
judgment, he is the first-born of
Satan.
3 Wherefore leaving the vanity
of many, and their false doctrines;
let us return to the word that was
delivered to us from the begin
ning; 12 Watching unto prayer;
and persevering in fasting.
4 With supplication beseeching
the all seeing God” not to lead us
into temptation ; as the Lord hath
said, “The spirit is truly willing,
but the flesh is weak.
5 Let us therefore without ceas
ing hold steadfastly to him who is
our hope, and the earnest of our
righteousness, even Jesus Christ;
1% Who his own self bare our sinn
in his own body on the tree: who
did no sin, neither was guile found
in his mouth. But suffered all
* Ezek. xxxiv. 4.
* Matt. xii. 14; Rom. xiv. 10;
* The martyrdom of the cross.
* 1 Pet. ii. 22, 24.
191
On well doing.
for us that we might live through
him.
6 Let us therefore imitate his
patience; and if we suffer for his
name, let us glorify him ; for this
example he has given us by him
self, and so have we believed.
7 Wherefore I exhort all of you
that ye obey the word of righte
ousness, and exercise all patience;
which ye have seen set forth be
fore your eyes, not only in the
blessed Ignatius,and Zozimus, and
Rufus ; but in others among your
selves; and in Paul himself, and
the rest of the Apostles:
8 Being * confident of this, that
all these have not run in vain;
but in faith and righteousness,
and are gone to the place that
was due to them from the
Lord ; with whom also they suf
fered.
9 For they loved not this pre
sent world; but him who died,
and was raised again by God for
U18.
10 Stand therefore in these
things, and follow the example of
the Lord ; being firm and immu
table in the faith, lovers of the
brotherhood, lovers of one ano
ther : * companions together in
the truth, * being kind and gentle
towards each other, despising
InOne.
11 When it is in your power
to do good defer it not, for cha
tity delivered from death.
12 Be all of you subject one
to another, "having your conversa
tion * honest among the Gentiles;
that by your good works, both ye
yourselves may receive praise, and
the Lord may not 7 be blasphemed
1 In. 1 Pet. iii. 14, &c.
*Unreprovable.
moderate and filthy lusts.
v. 22. Eph. v. 5; Coloss. ii. 5.
v. 10. 11 1 Cor. Vi. 2.
PHILIPPIANS.
* Persuaded.
to each other in the mildness of the Lord. Tobit, xii. 9.
7 Rom. ii. 24. Titus, ii. 5.
So Dr. Hammond on Rom. i. 29.
* As before, Dr. Hammond on 19 Cor.
12 Phil. i.
Exhorts against.
through you. But wo be to him
by whom the name of the Lord is
blasphemed.
12 Therefore teach all men so
briety; in which do ye also exer
cise yourseives.
CHAP IV.
Valens, a presbyter, having fallen into
the sin of covetousness, he echorts them
against it.
AM greatly afflicted for Wa
lens, who was once a presby
ter among you ; that he should
so little understand the place that
was given to him in the church.
Wherefore I admonish you that
ye abstain from 8 covetousness ;
and that ye be chaste, and true of
speech.
2° Keep yourselves from all
evil. For he that in these things
cannot govern himself how shall
he be able to prescribe them to
another ?
3 If a man does not keep him
self from 19 covetousness, he shall
be polluted with idolatry and be
judged as if he were a Gentile.
4 But who of you are ignorant
of the judgment of God? Il Do we
not know that the saints shall
judge the world, as Paul teaches?
5 But I have neither per
ceived nor heard any thing of
this kind in you, among whom the
blessed 1% Paul laboured; and who
are named in the beginning of his
Epistle.
6 For he glories of you in all
the churches who then only knew
God; for we did not then know
him. Wherefore, my brethren, I
am exceedingly sorry both for
him, and for his wife ; to whom
God grant a true repentance.
*Associated in truth. “Yielding
5 1 Pet. ii. 12.
* Concupiscºnce ; or, im
91 Thes.
192
the sin of
7 And be ye also moderate
upon this occasion; and look not
upon such as enemies, but call
them back as suffering, and erring
members, that ye may save your
whole body: for by so doing, ye
shall edify your own selves.
8 For I trust that ye are well
exercised in the Holy Scriptures,
and that nothing is hid from you :
but at present it is not granted
unto me to practice that which is
1 written, Be angry and sin not ;
and again, Let not the sun go
down upon your wrath.
9 Blessed be he that believeth
and remembereth these things;
which also I trust you do.
10 Now the God and Father of
our Lord Jesus Christ; and he
himself who is our everlasting
high-priest, the Son of God, even
Jesus Christ, build you up in faith
and in truth, and in all meekness
and lenity; in patience and long
suffering, in forbearance and
chastity.
11 And grant unto you a lot
and portion among his saints; and
us with you, and to all that are
under the heavens, who shall be
lieve in our Lord Jesus Christ, and
in his Father ” who raised him
... from the dead.
12 Pray for all the saints : pray
also for kings, and * all that are in
authority; and for those who per
secute you, and hate you, and for
the enemies of the cross ; that
your fruit may be manifest in all;
1 Said in these Scriptures. Psalm iv. 5. Eph. iv. 26.
*Powers and princes.
*i.e. To himself, and to the church of Smyrna.
Tim. ii. 1.2.
loc.
grace be with you all Amen.
PHILIPPIANS. covetousness.
and that ye may be perfect in
4 Christ.
13 * Ye wrote to me, both ye,
and also Ignatius, that if any one
went from hence into Syria, he
should bring your letters with
him; which also I will take care
of, as soon as I shall have a con
venient opportunity; either by
myself, or him whom I shall send
upon your account.
14 The Epistles of Ignatius
which he wrote "unto us, toge
ther with what others of his have
come to our hands, we have sent
to you, according to your order;
which are subjoined to this
epistle.
15 By which wenay be greatly
profited ; for they treat of faith
and patience, and of all things
that pertain to edification in 7 the
Lord Jesus.
16 T What you know certainly
of Ignatius, and those that are
with him signify to us.
17 || These things have I writ
ten unto you by Crescens, whom
by this present epistle I have re
commended to you, and do now
again commend.
18 For he has had his conver
sation without blame among us;
and I suppose also with you.
19 Ye will also have regard un
to his sister when she shall come
unto you.
20 Be ye safe in the Lord Jesus
Christ; * and in favour with all
yours. Amen.
* Gal. i. 1, 1. Tim
* See Annot. Usser. ix.
"Our Lord. "Hiz
4 Him.
Y95
THE SHEPHERD OF HERMAS.
[This book Is thus entitled, because it was composed by Hermas, brother to
Pius, bishop of Rome; and because the Angel, who bears the principal
partin it, is represented in the form and habit of a shepherd. Irenaeus
uotes it under the very name of Scripture. Origen thought it a most use
l writing, and that it was divinely inspired; Eusebius says, that, though
it was not esteemed canonical, it was read publicly in the churches, whichis
corroborated by Jerome; and Athanasius cites it, calls it a most useful
work, and observes, that though it was not strictly canonical, the Fathers
appointed it to be read for direction and confirmation in faith and piety. Je
rome, notwithstanding this, and that he applauded it in his catalogue of
writers, in his comments upon itafterwards, terms it apocryphalandfoolish.
Tertullian praised it when a Catholic, and abused it when a Montanist.
Although Gelasius ranks it among the apocryphal books, it is found at
tached to some of the most ancient MS. of the New Testament; and Arch
bishop Wake, believing it the genuine work of an apostolical Father, pre
serves it to the English jthe following translation, in whichhe has
rendered the books not only more exact, but in greater purity than they
had before appeared. The archbishop procured Dr. Grabe to entirely col
late the old Latin version with an ancient MS.in the Lambeth library; and
the learned prelate himself still further improved the whole from a multi
tude offragments ofthe original Greek never before used for that purpose.]
The First Book of HERMAS,
VISION I.
1 Against filthy and proud thoughts,
20 also the neglect of Hermas in chas:
tising his children.
E who had bred me up sold
a certain young maid at
Rome; whom when I saw many
years after, I remembered her,
and began to love her as a sister.
It happened some time afterwards,
that I saw her washing in the
river Tyber; and Ireached out my
hand unto her, and brought her
out of the river.
2 And when I saw her I thought
with myself, saying, How happy
should I be if I had such a wife,
both for beauty and manners.
This I thought with myself; nor
did I think any thing more. But
not long after, as I was walking,
and musing on these thoughts, I
began to honour this creature of
God, thinking with myself; how
noble and beautiful she was.
3 And when I had walked a
little, I fell asleep. And the spirit
caught me away, and carried me
which is called his VISIONS.
through a certain place towards
the right-hand, through which no
man could pass. It was a place
among rocks, very steep, and un
passable for water.
4. When I was past this place,
I came into a plain ; and there
falling down upon my knees, I
began to pray unto the Lord, and
to confess my sins.
5 And as I was praying, the
heaven was opened, and I saw the
woman which I had coveted, sa
luting me from heaven, and say
ing, Hermas, hail! and I look
ing upon her, answered, Lady,
what dost thou do here ? She an
swered me, "I am taken up hither
to accuse thee of sin before the
Lord.
6 Lady, said I, wilt thou? con
vince me? No, said she but hear
the words which I am about to
speak unto thee. God who dwell
eth in heaven, and hath made all
things out of nothing, and hath
multiplied them for his holy
church's sake, is angry with thee
*In MS. Lambeth. Praecepta sum a Domino ut peccata tua arguam : I
an eommanded of the Lord to reprove thee for thy sins.
Wilt thcu accuse me?
* In MSS.
194
Against filthy
because thou hast sinned against
lºne.
7 And I answering said unto
her, Lady, if I have sinned against
thee, tell me where, or in what
place, or when did I ever speak
an unseemly or dishonest word
unto thee!
8 Have I not always esteemed
thee as a lady ? Have I not always
reverenced thee as a sister? Why
then dost thou imagine these
wicked things against me !
9 Then she, smiling upon me,
said: the desire of naughtiness
has risen up in thy heart. Does
it not seem to thee to be an ill
thing for a righteous man to have
an evil desire rise up in his heart?
10 It is indeed a sin, and that
a very great one, to such a one ;
for a righteous man thinketh that
which is righteous. And whilst
he does so, and walketh uprightly,
he shall have the Lord in heaven
favourable unto him in all his
business.
11 But as for those who think
wickedly in their hearts, they take
to themselves death and captivity;
and especially those who love this
present world, and glory in their
riches, and regard not the good
things that are to come; their
souls wander up and down, and
know not where to fix.
12 Now this is the case of such
as are double-minded, who trust
not in the Lord, and despise and
neglect their own life.
13 But do thou pray unto the
Lord, and he will heal thy sins,
and the sins of thy whole house,
and of all his saints.
14 “ſſ As soon as she had
spoken these words the heavens
were shut, and I remained utterly
swallowed up with sadness and
fear; and said within myself, if
VISION I. and proud thoughts.
this belaid against me for sin, how
can I be saved
15 Or how shall I ever be able
to entreat the Lord for my many
and great sins? With what words
shall I beseech him to be mereiful
unto me?
16 As I was thinking over these
things, and meditating in myself
upon them, behold a chair was
set over against me of the whitest
wool, as bright as Snow.
17 And there came an old wo
man in a bright garment, having
a book in her hand, and sat alone,
and saluted me, saying, "Hermas,
hail! and I being full of sorrow,
and weeping, answered, Hail,
Lady I
18 And she said unto me, Why
art thou sad, Hermas, who wert
wont to be patient, and modest,
and always cheerful? I answered,
and said to her, Lady, a reproach
has been laid to my charge by an
excellent woman, who tells me,
that I have sinned against her.
19 She replied, Farbe any such
thing from the servant of God.
But it may be the desire of her
has risen up in thy heart. For
indeed such a thought maketh the
servants of God guilty of sin.
20 Nor ought such a detestable
thought to be in the servant of
God: nor should he who is ap
proved by the Spirit desire that
which is evil; but especially Her
mas, who contains himself from
all wicked lusts, and is full of all
simplicity, and of great inno
cence.
21 "I Nevertheless the Lord is
not so much angry with thee for
thine own sake, as upon the ac
count of thy house, which has
committed wickedness against the
Lord, and against their parents.
22 And for that out of thy fond
* Wid. Hieron in Hoseam, vii. 9.
195
On neglecting to
ness towards thy sons, thou hast
not admonished thy house, but
hast permitted them to live wick
edly; for this cause the Lord is
angry with thee: but he will heal
all the evils that are done in thy
house. For through their sins
and iniquities, thou art wholly
consumed in secular affairs.
23 But now the mercy of God
hath taken compassion upon thee,
and upon thine house, and hath
1 greatly comforted thee. Only
as for thee, do not wander, but be
of an even mind, and comfort thy
house.
24 As the workmen bringing
forth his work, offers it to whom
soever he pleaseth ; so shalt thou
by teaching every day what is
just, cut off a great sin. Where
fore cease not to admonish thy
£ons, for the Lord knows that they
will repent with all their heart,
* and they shall be written in the
book of life.
25 And when she had said this,
she added unto me; Wilt thou
hear me read!—I answered her,
Lady, I will.
26 Hear then, said she ; and
opening the book she read, glori
ously, greatly, and wonderfully,
such things as I could not keep in
my memory. For they were ter
rible words, such as no man could
bear.
27 Howbeit I committed her
\ast words to my remembrance;
for they were but few, and of
great use to us.
28 Behold the mighty Lord,
who by his invisible power, and
with his excellent wisdom made
the world, and by his glorious
counsel beautified his creature,
and with the word of his strength
fixed the heaven, and founded the
earth upon the waters; and by this
1 In Glory. Edit.
Wamb. Et describentur in libre vitae.
I. HERMAS.
Oxon. Hath preserved thee in honour.
chastise his children,
powerful virtue established his
Holy Church, which he hath
blessed.
29 Behold he will remove the
heavens, and the mountains, the
hills, and the seas; and all things
shall be made plain for his elect ;
that he may render unto them the
promise which he has promised,
with much honour and joy; if so
be that they shall keep the com
mandments of God, which they
have received with great faith.
30 °ſ And when she had made
an end of reading, she rose out of
the chair; and behold four young
men came, and carried the chair to
the east.
31 And she called me unto her,
and touched my breast, and said
unto me, Did my reading please
thee? I answered, Lady, these
last things please me; but what
went before was severe and hard.
32 She said unto me, these last
things are for * the righteous, but
the foregoing for the revolters and
heathen.
33 And as she was talking with
me, two men appeared, and took
her upon their shoulders,and went
to the east where the chair was.
34 And she went cheerfully
away; and as she was going, said
unto me, Hermas, be of good
cheer.
VISION II.
Again, of his neglect in correcting his
talkative wife : and of his lewd sons."
S I was on the way to Cuma,
about the same time that I
went the year before, I began to
call to mind the vision I formerly
had. And again the spirit carried
me away, and brought me into the
same place, in which I had been
the year before.
2 And when I was come into
the place, I fell down upon my
* So. MS,
* Edit. Oxon. * Et ejus modo.
196
Of his neglect to
knees, and began to pray unto the
Lord, and to glorify his name, that
he had esteemed me worthy, and
had manifested unto me my former
81118.
3 And when I arose from pray
er, behold I saw over against me
the old woman whom I had seen
the last year, walking and reading
in a certain book.
4 And she said unto me, Canst
thou tell these things to the elect
of God? I answered and said
unto her, Lady, I cannot retain so
many things in my memory, but
give me the book, and I will write
them down.
5 Take it, says she, and see that
thou restore it again to me.
6 As soon as I had received it,
I went aside into a certain place
of the field, and transcribed every
letter, for I found no syllables.
7 And as soon as I had finish
ed what was written in the book,
the book was suddenly caught out
of my hand, but by whom I saw
not.
8 "I After fifteen days, when I
had fasted, and intreated the Lord
with all earnestness, the know
ledge of the writing was revealed
unto me. Now the writing was
this:—
9 Thy seed, O Hermas I hath
sinned against the Lord, and have
betrayed their parents, through
their great wickedness. And they
have been called the betrayers of
their parents, and have gone on in
their treachery.
10 And now have they added
lewdness to their other sins, and
thepollutions of theirnaughtiness:
thus have they filled up the mea
sure of their iniquities. But do
thou ? upbraid thy sons with all
* Clem. Alex. Strom. vi.
Oxon. And she, &c.
aliquis Lat. * Shall sin after it.
VISION II.
* Impropera.
* Day. Praefinita ista die etiam nunc si peccaverit
correct his talkative wife,
these words; and thy wife, which
shall be thy sister; and let her
learn to refrain her tongue, with
which she calumniates.
11 And when she shall hear
these things, she will refrain her
self, and shall obtain mercy.
12 And * they also shall be in
structed, when thou shalt have re
proached them with these words,
which the Lord has commanded to
be revealed unto thee.
13 Then shall their sins be for.
given, which they have heretofore
committed, and the sins of all the
Saints who have sinned even unto
this day; if they shall repent with
all their hearts, and remove all
doubts out of their hearts.
*4 For the Lord hath sworn by
his glory concerning his 4 elect,
having determined this very time,
that if any one shall " even now
sin, he shall not be saved.
15 For the repentance of the
righteous has its end; the days of
repentance are fulfilled to all the
saints; but to the heathen, there
is repentance even unto the last
day.
16 Thou shalt therefore say to
those who are over the church ;
that they order their ways in
righteousness, that they may fully
receive the promise with much
glory.
17 Stand fast therefore ye that
work righteousnessandcontinue to
do it, that your departure may be
with the holy angels,
18 Happy are ye, as many as
shall endure the great trial that is
at hand, and whosoever shall not
deny his life.
19 For the Lord hath sworn by
his son, that whoso denieth his
Son and him, being afraid of his
* So one MS. in Coteler. Edit,
197
Qfhis neglect to
life, he will also deny him in the
" world that is come.
20 But those who shall never
deny him, he will of his exceeding
great mercy be favourable unto
them.
21 Aſ But thou, O Hermas I re
member not the * evils which thy
sons have done, neither neglect
thy sister, but take care that they
amend of their former sins.
22 For they will be instructed
by this doctrine, if thou shalt not
be mindful of what they have
done wickedly.
23 For the remembrance of
evils worketh death,but the forget
ing of them life eternal.
24 But thou, O Hermas I hast
undergone a great many worldly
troubles for the offences of thy
house, because thou hast neglected
them, as things that did not
belong unto thee; and thou art
wholly taken up with thy great
business.
25 Nevertheless, for this cause
shalt thou be saved, that thou hast
not departed from the living God,
and thy simplicity and singular
continency shall preserve thee, if
thou shalt continue in them.
26 Yea, they shall save all such
as do such things, and walk in in
nocence and simplicity.
27 They who are of this kind
shall prevail against all impiety,
and continue until life eternal.
28 Happy are all they that do
righteousness, they shall not be
consumed for ever.
29 But thou wilt say, Behold
there is a great trial coming. If it
seem good to thee,denyhimagain.
30 The Lord is nigh to them
that turn to him, as it is written in
the book of *Heldam and Modal,
I. HERMAS. correct his children.
who prophecied to the people of
Israel in the wilderness.
31 "I Moreover, brethren, it was
revealed to me, as I was sleeping,
by a very goodly young man, say
ing unto me, What thinkest thou
of that old woman from whom
thou receivedst the book; who is
she 7 I answered, a Sybil.
32 Thou art mistaken, said he,
she is not. I replied, Who is she
then, sir? He answered me, It is
the church of God.
33 And I said unto him, Why
then does she appear old She is
therefore, said he, an old woman,
because she was 4 the first of all
the creation, and the world was
made for her.
34. After this I saw a vision at
home in my own house, and the
old woman whom I had seen be
fore, came to me and asked me,
whether Ihad yet delivered her
book to the elders of the church 1
And I answered, that I had not yet.
35 She replied, Thou hast well
done, for I have certain words
more to tell thee. But when I
shall have finished all the words,
they shall be clearly understood by
the elect.
36 ° And thou shalt write two
books, and send one to Clement
and one to Grapte. For Clement
shall send it to the foreign cities,
because it is permitted to him so to
do : but Grapte shall admonish
the widows and orphans.
37 But thou shalt read in this
city with the elders of the church.
WISION III.
Of the building ofthe church triumphant,
and of the several sorts of reprobates.
HE vision which I saw, bre
thren, was this.
* Days that are coming. *Injuries. *Eldad and Modad. Numb. xi.
36,27. “See Dr. Grabe's Annot to Bishop Bull's Def. Fid. Nic. p. 24.
Fol. de S. Herma.
Philocal, cap. 1.
* Suum is added in the Lambeth MS. * Origen.
198
Of the church
2. When I had often fasted and
prayed unto the Lord, that he
would manifest unto me the reve
lation, which he had promised by
the old woman to shew unto me;
the same night she appeared unto
me, and said unto me:
3 Because thou dost thus afflict
thyself, and art so desirousto know
all things, come into the field,
where thou wilt, and about the
sixth hour, I will appear untothee,
and shew thee what thou must
860.
4 I asked her, saying: Lady,
into what part of the field? §he an
swered, wherever thou wilt, only
chuse a good and a priyate place.
And before I began to speak and
tell her the place, she said unto
me : I will come where thou wilt.
5 I was therefore, brethren, in
the field and I observed the hours
and came into the place where I
had appointed her to come.
6 And I beheld a bench placed;
it was a linen pillow, and over it
spread a covering of fine linen.
7 When I saw these things
ordered in this manner, and that
there was nobody in the place, I
began to be astonished, and my
hair stood on end, and a kind of
horror seized me; for I was alone.
8 But, being come to myself,
and calling to mind the glory of
God, and taking courage, I fell
down upon my knees and began
again to confess my sins as before.
9 And whilst I was doing this,
the old woman came thither with
the six young men whom I had
seen before, and stood behind me
as I was praying, and heard me
praying and confessing my sins
unto the Lord.
10 And touching me, she said:
Leave off to pray now only for
thy sins; pray also for righteous
ness, that thou mayest receive a
part of her in thy house.
VISION III. triumphant
11 And she lifted me up from
the place, and took me by the
hand, and brought me to the seat;
and said to the young men; go,
and build.
12 As soon as they were de
parted, and we were alone, she
said unto me: sit here. I an
swered her: Lady, let those who
are elder sit first. She replied,
Sit down as I bid you.
13 And when I would have sate
on the right side, she suffered me
not, but made a sign to me with her
hand, that I should sit on the left.
14 As I was therefore musing,
and full of sorrow, that she would
not suffer me to sit on the right
side, she said unto me, Hermas,
why art thou sad?
15 The place which is on the
right-hand is theirs who have
already attained unto God, and
have suffered for his name sake.
But there is yet a great deal re
maining unto thee, before thou
canst sit with them.
16 But continue as thou doest
in thy sincerity, and thou shalt sit
with them : as all others shall
that do their works, and shall
bear what they have borne.
17 T I said to her : Lady, I
would know what it is that they
have suffered? Hear then, said
she wild beasts, scourgings, im
prisonments, and crosses for his
name-sake.
18 For this cause the right
hand of holiness belongs to them,
and to all others as many as shall
suffer for the name of God; but
the left belongs to the rest.
19 Howbeit the gifts and the
promises belong to both, to them
on the right, and to those on the
left hand; only that sitting on the
right hand they have some glory
above the others.
20 But thou art desirous to sit
on the right hand with them,
199
Of the Church
and yet thy defects are many.
But thou shalt be purged from
thy defects, as also all who doubt
not shall be cleansed from all the
sins which they have committed
unto this day.
21 And when she had said this
she would have departed.
22 Wherefore, falling down be.
fore her feet, I began to entreat
her, for the Lord's sake, that she
would shew me the vision which
she had promised.
23 Then she again took me by
the hand, and lifted me up, and
made me sit upon the seat on the
left side; and holding up a certain
bright wand, said unto me, Seest
thou that great thing? I replied,
Lady, I see nothing.
24 She answered, Dost thou
not see over against thee a great
tower, which is built upon the
water, with bright square stones?
25 For the tower was built
upon a square by these six young
men that came with her.
26 But many thousand of other
men brought stones; some drew
them out of the deep, others car
ried them from the ground, and
gave them to the six young men.
And they took them and built.
27 As for those stones which
were drawn out of the deep, they
put them all into the building;
for they were polished, and their
squares exactly answered one
another, and so one was joined in
such wise to the other, that there
was no space to be seen where
they joined, insomuch that the
whole tower appeared to be built
as it were of one stone.
28 But as for the other stones
that were taken off from the
ground, some of them they re
jected, others they fitted into the
building.
*
* Lat. Exiguitates.
I. HERMAS. Triumphant.
29 As for those which were re
jected, some they cut out, and
cast them at a distance from the
tower ? but many others of them
lay round about the tower, which
they made no use of in the
building.
30 For some of these were
rough, others had clefts in them.
others were white and round, not
proper for the building of the
tower.
31 But I saw the other stones
cast afar off from the tower, and
falling into the high-way, and yet
not continuing in the way, but
were rolled from the way into a
desert place.
32 Others I saw falling into the
fire and burning; others fell near
the water, yet could not roll them
selves into it, though very desirous
to fall into the water.
33 *[ And when she had shewed
me these things she would have
departed: but I said to her, Lady,
what doth it profit me to see these
things, and not understand what
they mean?
34 She answered and said unto
me: You are very cunning, in
that you are desirous to know
those things which * relate to the
tower. Yea, said I, Lady, that I
may declare them unto the bre
thren, and they may rejoice, and
hearing these things may glorify
God with great glory.
35 Then she said, Many indeed
shall hear them, and when they
shall have heard them, some shall
rejoice, and others weep. And
yet even these, if they shall repent,
shall rejoice too.
36 Hear therefore what I shall
say concerning the parable of the
tower, and after this be no longer
importunate with me about the
revelation.
* Are about.
200
and of several
37 For these revelations have
an end, seeing they are fulfilled.
But thou dost not leave off to de
sire revelations, for thou art very
! urgent.
38 As for the tower which thou
seeist built, it is myself, namely
the church, which have appeared
to thee both now and heretofore.
Wherefore ask what thou wilt con
cerning the tower, and I will re
veal it unto thee, that thou mayst
rejoice with the Saints.
39 I said unto her, Lady, be
cause thou hast thought me once
worthy to receive from thee the
revelation of all these things, de
clare them unto me.
40 She answered me, Whatso
ever is fit to be revealed unto thee
shall be revealed : * only let thy
heart be with the Lord, and doubt
not, whatsoever thou shalt see.
41 I asked her, Lady, why is the
tower built upon the * water? She
replied, I said before to thee that
thou wert very wise to inquire dili
gently concerning the building,
thereforethoushalt find the truth.
42 Here therefore why the tow
er is built upon the water : because
your life is and shall be saved by
water. For “it is founded by the
word of the almighty and honour
able name, and is supported by
the invisible power and virtue of
God.
43 || And I answering, said
unto her, These things are very
admirable ; but, lady, who are
those six young men that build?
44 They are, said she, the angels
of God, which were first appoint
ed, and to whom the Lord has de
livered all his creatures, to frame
and build them up, and to rule
over them. For by these the build
ing ofthe tower shall be finished.
VISION III. sorts of reprobates.
45 And who are the rest who
bring them stones?
46 They also are the holy an
gels of the Lord; but the other are
more excellent than these. Where
fore when the whole building of
the tower shall be finished, they
shall all feast together beside the
tower, and shall glorify God, be.
cause the structure of the tower is
finished.
47 I asked her, saying, I would
know the condition of the stones,
and the meaning of them, what it
is ?
48 She answering, said unto
me, Art thou better than all others
that this should be revealed unto
thee! For others are both before
thee, and better than thou art, to
whom these visions should be made
manifest.
49 Nevertheless, that the name
of God may be glorified, it has
been, and shall be revealed unto
thee, for the sake of those who are
doubtful, and think in their hearts
whether these things are so or
not.
50 Tell them that all these
things are true, and that there is
nothing in them that is not true ;
but all are firm and truly esta
blished.
51* Hear now then concerning
the stones that are in the build
ing.
52 The square and white stones
which agree exactly in their joints,
are the apostles, and bishops,
and doctors, and ministers, who
through the mercy of God have
come in, and governed, and taught
andministered holily and modestly
to the elect of God, both they that
have fallen asleep, and which yet
remain ; and have always agreed
with them, and have had peace
* Edit Oxon. * Clem. Alex. Strom. xii. * Baptism. * Namely,
the tower.
26 201
Of the church
within themselves, and have heard
each other.
53 For which cause their joints
exactly meet together in the build
ing of the tower.
54 They which are drawn out
of the deep and put into the
building, and whose joints agree
with the other stones which are
already built, are those which are
already fallen asleep, and have
suffered for the sake of the Lord's
Ilaine.
55 And what are the other
stones, lady, that are brought from
the earth'ſ I would know what are
they.
56 She answered, They which
lie upon the ground and are not
polished, are those which God has
approved, because they have walk
ed in the law of the Lord, and
directed their ways in his com
mandments.
57 They which are brought and
put in the building of the tower,
are the young in faith and the
faithful. And these are admo
nished by the angels to do well
because that iniquity is not found
in them.
58 But who are those whom
they rejected, and laid beside the
tower %
59 They are such as have sinned
and are willing to repent ; for
which cause they are not cast far
from the tower, because they will
be useful for the building, if they
shall repent.
60 They therefore that are yet
to repent, if they shall repent shall
become strong in the faith; that
is, if they repent now, whilst the
tower is building. For if the
building shall be finished there
will then be no place for them to
be put in, but they shall be re
jected; for he only has this privi
* In aequitatem Domini, Lat.
I. HERMAS. triumphant.
lege who shall now be put intothe
tower.
61 I But would you know who
they are that were cut out, and
cast afar off from the tower?
* Lady, said I, I desire it.
62 They are the children of
iniquity, who believed only in hy
pocrisy,but departed notfromtheir
evil ways; for this cause they shall
not be saved, because they are not
of any use in the building by rea
son of their sins.
63 Wherefore they are cut out,
and cast afar off, because of the
anger of the Lord, and because
they have provoked him to anger
against them.
64 As for the great number of
other stones which thou hast seen
placed about the tower, but not
put into the building; those which
are rugged, are they who have
known the truth, but have not
continued in it, nor been joined to
the saints, and therefore are unpro
fitable.
65 Those that have clefts in
them, are they that keep up dis
cord in their hearts against each
other, and live not in peace; that
are friendly when present with
their brethren, but as soon as they
are departed from one another,
their wickedness still continues
in their hearts : these are the
clefts which are seen in those
stones.
66 Those that are maimed and
short, are they who have believed
indeed, but still are in great mea.
sure full of wickedness : for this
cause they are maimed and not
whole.
67 But what are the white and
round stones, lady, and which are
not proper for the building of the
tower?
68 She answering said unto
* Edit. Oxon.
202
and of several
me: How long wilt thoucontinue
foolish andwithout understanding,
asking everything and discerning
nothing?
69 They are such as have faith
indeed, but have withal the riches
of this present world. When
therefore any 1 troubles arise, for
the sake of their riches and traffic,
they deny the Lord.
70 I answering, said unto her,
When therefore will they be pro
fitable to the Lord? When their
riches shall be cut away, says she,
in which they take delight, then
they will be profitable unto the
Lord for his building.
71 For as a round stone, unless
it be cut away, and cast somewhat
off its bulk cannot be made square,
so they who are rich in this world,
unless their riches be pared off,
cannot be made profitable unto the
Lord.
72 Learn this from thy own
experience; when thou wert rich,
thou wast unprofitable; but now
thou art profitable, and fit for the
life which thou hast undertaken;
for thou also once wast one of
those stones.
73 "I As for the rest of the
stones which thou sawest cast afar
off from the tower, and running in
the way, and tumbled out of the
way into desert places, they are
such as have believed indeed, but
through their doubting have for
saken the true way, thinking that
they could find a better. But they
wander and are miserable, going
into desolate ways.
74 Then for those stones which
fell into the fire and were burnt,
they are those who have * for ever
departed from the living God;
nor doth it ever come into their
hearts to repent, by reason of the
affection which they bear to their
* Tribulation arises.
WISIUN IIſ. sorts of reprobates.
lusts and wickednesses which they
commit.
75 And what are the rest which
fell by the water, and could not
roll into the water?
76 They are such as have heard
the word, and were willing to be
baptized in the name of the Lord;
but considering the great holiness
which the truth requires, have
withdrawn themselves, and walked
again after their wicked lusts.
77 Thus she finished the expli
cation of the tower.
78 But I being still urgent,
asked her, Is there repentance al
lowed to all those stones which are
thus cast away, and were not suit
able to the building of the tower;
and shall they find place in this
tower %
79 They may repent, said she,
but they cannot come into this
tower; but they shall be placed
in a much lower rank, and this
after that they shall have been
afflicted, and fulfilled the days of
their sins.
80 And for this cause they shall
be removed, because they have
received the word of righteous
ness: and then they shall be
translated from their afflictions, if
they shall have a true sense in
their hearts of what they have
done amiss.
81 But if they shall not have
this sense in theirhearts, they shall
not be saved by reason of the
hardness of their hearts.
82 When therefore I had
done asking her concerning all
these things, she said unto me,
Wilt thou see somewhat else?
And being desirous of seeing it, I
became very cheerful of counte
IlanCe.
83 She therefore looking back
upon me, and smiling a little, said
* Finally.
203
Of the church
unto me, Seest thou seven women
about the tower? Lady, said I, I
see them.
84 This tower, replied she, is
supported by them, according to
the command of the Lord : hear
therefore the effects of them.
85 The first of them, which
holds fast with her hand, is called
Faith, by her the elect shall be
saved. The next, which is girt
up, and looks manly, is named
Abstinence : she is the daughter
of Faith.
86 Whosoever therefore shall
follow her shall be happy in all
his life, because he shall abstain
from all evil works, believing that
if he shall contain himself from
all concupiscence, he shall be
the heir of eternal life. And
what, lady, said I, are the other
five
87 They are, replied she, the
daughters of one another. The
first of them is called Simplicity;
the next Innocence; the third
Modesty; then Discipline; and
the last of all is Charity. When
therefore thou shalt have fulfilled
the works of their mother, thou
shalt be able to do all things.
88 Lady, said I, I would know
what particular virtue every one of
these has.
89 Hear then, replied she ;
they have equal virtues, and their
virtues are knit together, and fol
low one another as they were
born.
90 From Faith proceeds Ab
stinence; from Abstinence, Sim
plicity; from Simplicity, Inno
cence; from Innocence, Modesty;
from Modesty, Discipline and
Charity. Therefore the works of
these are holy, and chaste, and
right.
91 Whoever therefore shall
serve these, and hold fast to their
works, he shall have his dwelling
I. HERMAS. triumphant.
in the tower with the saints of
God.
92 Then I asked her concern
ing the times, whether the end
were now at hand;
93 But she cried out with a
loud voice, saying, O foolish man
Dost thou not see the tower yet a
building? When therefore the
tower shall be finished, and built,
it shall have an end; and indeed
it shall soon be accomplished.
94 But do not ask me any more
questions. What has been said
may suffice thee and all the saints
for the refreshment of your spirits.
For these things have not been re
vealed to thee only, but that thou
mayest make them manifest unto
all.
95 For therefore, O Hermas,
after three days thou must under
stand these words which I begin
to speak unto thee, that thou
mayest speak them in the ears of
the saints; that when they shall
have heard and done them, they
may be cleansed from their ini
quities, and thou together with
them.
96 Hear me therefore, O my
sons ! I have bred you up in
much simplicity, and innocency,
and modesty for the love of God,
which has dropped down upon
you in righteousness, that you
should be sanctified and justified
from all sin and wickedness; but
ye will not cease from your evil
drings. -
97 Now therefore hearken
unto me, and have peace one with
another, and visit one another, and
receive one another, and do
not enjoy the creatures of God
alone.
98 Give freely to them that are
in need. For some by too free
feeding contract an infirmity in
their flesh, and do injury to their
bodies; whilst the flesh of others.
204
and of several
who have not food, withers away,
because they want sufficient nou
rishment, and the bodies are con
sumed.
99 Wherefore this intemper
ance is hurtful to you, who have,
and do not communicate to them
that want. Prepare for the judg
ment that is about to come upon
you.
100 Ye that are the more emi
nent, search out them that are
hungry, whilst the tower is yet
unfinished. For when the tower
shall be finished, ye shall be wil
ing to do good, and shall not find
any place in it.
101 Beware, therefore, ye that
glory in your riches, lest perhaps
they groan who are in want, and
their sighing come up unto God,
and ye be shut out with your
goods without the gate of the
tower.
102 Behold I now warn you
who are set over the church, and
love the highest seats, be not ye
like unto those that work mis
chief.
103 And they indeed carry
about their poison in boxes, but
ye contain your poison and * in
fection in your hearts, and will
not purge them, and mix your
sense with a pure heart, that ye
may find mercy with the Great
King.
104 Take heed, my children,
that your dissensions deprive you
not of your lives. How will ye
instruct the elect of God, when
ye yourselves want correction ?
Wherefore admonish one another,
and be at peace among yourselves,
that I, standing before your fa
ther, may give an account for you
unto the Lord.
105 T And when she had made
an end of talking with me, the six
WISION IIL sorts of reprobates.
young men that built, came and
carried her to the tower; and four
others took up the seat on which
she sate, and they also went away
again to the tower. I saw not the
faces of these, for their backs were
towards me.
106 As she was going away, I
asked her, that she would reveal
to me what concerned the three
forms, in which she had appeared
unto me.
107 But she answering said un
to me, concerning these things
thou must ask some other, that
they may be revealed unto thee.
108 Now, brethren, in the first
vision the last year, she appeared
unto me exceeding old, and sitting
in a chair.
109 In another vision, she had
indeed a youthful face, but her
flesh and hair were old; but she
talked with me standing, and was
more cheerful than the first time.
110 In the third vision, she
was in all respects much younger,
and comely to the eye; only she
had the hair of an aged person;
yet she looked cheerful, and sate
upon a seat.
111 I was therefore very sad
concerning these things, until I
might understand the vision.
112 Wherefore I saw the same
old woman in a vision of the night
sayinguntome, All prayerneedeth
humiliation. Fast, therefore, and
thou shalt learn from the Lord
that which thou dost ask. Ifasted
therefore one day.
113 The same night a young
man appeared to me and said,
Why dost thou thus often desire
Revelations in thy prayers? Take
heed that by asking many things,
thou hurt not the body. Let these
Revelations suffice thee.
114 Canst thou see more nota
* Medicaments.
205
Of several sorts
ble Revelations than those which
thou hast already received ?
115 I answered and said unto
him, Sir, I only ask this one thing
upon the account of the three
figures of the old woman that ap
peared to me, that the Revelation
may be complete.
116 He answered me, You are
not without understanding, but
your doubts make you so ; foras
much as you have not your heart
with the Lord.
117 I replied and said, But we
shall learn these things more care
fully from you.
118 "I Hear then, says he, con
cerning the figures about which
you inquire.
119 And first, in the first vision
she appeared to thee in the shape
of an old woman sitting in achair,
because your old spirit was decay
ed, and without strength, by rea
son of your infirmities, and the
doubtfulness of your heart.
120 For as they who are old
have no hope of renewing them
selves, nor expect any thing but
their departure; so you being
weakened through your worldly
affairs gave yourself up to sloth,
and cast not away your solicitude
from yourself upon the Lord : and
your sense was confused, " and
you grow old in your sadness.
121 But, sir, Iwould know why
she sate upon a chair?
122 Heanswered,becauseevery
one that is weak sitteth upon a
chair by reason of his infirmity,
that his weakness may be upheld.
Behold therefore the figure of the
first vision. -
123 In the second vision you
saw her standing, and having a
youthful face, and more cheerful
than her former; but her flesh
and her hair were ancient. Hear,
said he, this parable also.
* Broken, Contusus.
I. HERMAS. of reprobates.
124 When any one grows old,
he despairs of himself by reason
of his infirmity and poverty, and
expects nothing but the last day
of his life.
125 But on a sudden an inhe
ritance is left to him, and he hears
of it, and rises; and being become
cheerful, he puts on new strength.
And now he no longer sits down,
but stands, and is delivered from
his former sorrow ; and sits not,
but acts manfully.
126 So you, having heard the
Revelation which God revealed
unto you, because God had com
passion upon you, and renewed
your spirit, both laid aside your
infirmities, and strength came to
you, and you grow strong in the
faith; and God, seeing your
strength, rejoiced.
127 For this cause he shewed
you the building of the tower,
and will shew other things unto
you, if you shall have peace with
all your heart among each other.
128 But in the third vision
you saw her yet younger, *fair
and cheerful, and of a serene
countenance.
129 For as if some good news
comes to him that is sad, he
straight-way forgets his sadness,
and regards nothing else but the
good newswhichhe hasheard; and
for the rest he is comforted, and his
spirit is renewed through the joy
which he has received : even so
you have been refreshed in your
spirit by seeing these good things.
130 And for that you saw her
sitting upon a bench, it denotes a
strong position; because a bench
has four feet, and stands strongly.
And even the world itself is up
held by the four elements.
131 They therefore that repent
perfectly, shall be young; and
they that turn from their sins
*Honestam.
206
Of the tribulation
with their whole heart, shall be
established.
132 And now you have the
Revelation fully, ask no more to
have any thing farther revealed
unto you.
133 But if any thing be to be
revealed, it shall be made mani
fest unto you.
VISION IV.
Of the trial and tribulation that is about
to come upon men.
SAW a vision, brethren, twenty
days after the former vision;
a representation of the tribulation
that is at hand. I was walking
in the field way.
2 Now from the public way to
the place whither I went is about
ten furlongs; it is a way very little
frequented:
3 And as I was walking alone I
entreated the Lord that he would
confirm the Revelations which he
had shewed unto me by his Holy
Church :
4 And would grant repentance
to all his servants who had been
offended, that his great and hon
ourable name might be glorified,
and because he thought me wor
thy to whom he might shew his
wonders, and, that I might hon
our him, and give thanks unto
him.
5 And behold somewhat like a
voice answered me; Doubt not,
Hermas. Wherefore I began to
think, and say within myself, why
should I doubt, seeing I am thus
settled by the Lord, and have seen
such glorious things?
6 I had gone but a little farther,
brethren, when behold I saw a
dust rise up to heaven. I began
to say within myself, is there a
drove of cattle coming, that raises
s'ich a dust?
VISION IV.
* Aliquid divinitus. *Was urnale.
to come.
7 It was about a furlong off
from me. And behold I saw the
dust rise more and more, insomuch
that I began to suspect that there
was 2 somewhat extraordinary in
it.
8 And the sun shone a little:
and behold I saw a great beast, as
it were a whale; and fiery locusts
came out of his mouth. The
height of the beast was about a
hundred feet, and he had a head
like a “large earthen vessel.
9 I began to weep, and to pray
unto the Lord that he would de
liver me from it. Then I called
to mind the word which I had
heard; Doubt not, Hermas.
10 Wherefore, brethren, put
ting on a divine faith, and remem
bering who it was that had taught
me great things, I delivered my
self bodily unto the beast.
11 Now the beast came on in
such a manner, as if it could “at
once have devoured a city.
12 I came near unto it, and the
beast extended its whole bulk up
on the ground, and put forth no
thing but its tongue, nor once
moved itselftill I had quite passed
by it.
13 Now the beast had upon its
head four colours; first black,
then a red and bloody colour, then
a golden, and then a white.
14 " After that I had passed
by it, and was gone forward about
thirty feet, behold there met me a
certain virgin, well adorned as
if she had been just come out of
her bride chamber, all in white,
having on white shoes, and a veil
down her face, and covered with
shining hair.
15 Now I knew by my former
visions that it was the church,
and thereupon grew the more
cheerful. She saluted me saying,
* That he would shew me. * In ictu.
207
Of the tribulation
Hail, O Man I returned the sa
lutation, saying, Lady, Hail!
16 She answeringsaid unto me,
Did nothing meet you, O man
I replied, Lady, there met me such
a beast, as seemed able to devour
a whole people; but by the power
of God, and through his singular
mercy, I escaped it.
17 Thou didst escape it well,
said she, because thou didst cast
thy whole care upon God, and
opened thy heart unto him, be
lieving that thou couldst be safe
by no other than by his great and
honourable name.
18 For this cause the Lord sent
his angel, who is over the beast,
whose name is Hegrin, and stop
ped his mouth, that he should not
devour thee. Thou hast escaped
a great trial through thy faith, and
because thou didst not doubt for
Such a terrible beast.
19 Go therefore, and relate to
the elect of God the great things
that he hath done for thee. And
thou shalt say unto them, that
this beast is the figure of the trial
that is about to come.
20 If therefore, ye shall have
prepared yourselves, ye may es
cape it, if your heart be pure and
without spot ; and if ye shall serve
God all the rest ofyour days with
out complaint.
21 Cast all your cares upon
the Lord, and he will direct them.
Believe in God, ye doubtful, be
cause he can do all things ; he
can both turn away his wrath
from you, and send you help and
security.
22 Wo to the doubtful, to those
who shall hear these words, and
shall despise them : it had been
better for them that they had not
been born.
23 °ſſ Then I asked her con
I. HERMAS. to come.
cerning the four colours which the
beast had upon its head. But she
answered me saying; Again thou
art curious in that thou asketh con
cerning these things. But I said
to her, Lady, shew me what they
are.
24 Hear, said she ; The black
which thou sawest denotes the
world in which you dwell. The
fiery and bloody colour signifies
that this age must be destroyed
by fire and blood.
25 The golden part are ye, who
have escaped out ofit. For as gold
is tried by the fire, and is made
profitable, so are ye also in like
'manner tried who dwell among
the men of this world.
26 They therefore, that shall
endure to the end, and be proved
by them shall be purged. And as
gold, by this trial, is cleansed and
loses its dross, so shall ye also cast
away all sorrow and trouble, and
be made pure for the building of
the tower.
27 But the white colour denotes
the time of the world which is to
come, in which the elect of God
shall dwell : because the elect of
God shall be pure and without
spot until life eternal.
28 Wherefore do not thou
cease to speak these things in the
ears of the saints. Here ye have
the figure of the great tribulation
that is about to come ; which, if
you please shall be nothing to
you. Keep therefore in mind the
things that I have said unto
you.
29 When she had spoken thus
much, she departed ; but I saw
not whither she went. But sud
denly I heard a noise, and I turn
ed back, being afraid, for I thought
that the beast was coming toward
nae.
208
The Second Book of HERMAS, called his COMMANDS.
Introduction.
HEN I had prayed at
home, and was sat down
upon the bed, a certain man came
in to me with a reverend look, in
the habit of a shepherd, clothed
with a white cloak, having his
bag upon his back, and his staff
in his hand, and saluted me.
2 I returned his salutation, and
immediately he sat down by me,
and said unto me, I am sent by
that venerable messenger, that I
should dwell with thee all the re
maining days of thy life.
3 But I thought that he was
come to try me, and said unto
him, Who are you? For I know
to whom I am committed. He
said unto me, Do you not know
me? I answered no. I am, said
he, that shepherd to whose care
you are delivered.
4 Whilst he was yet speaking,
his shape was changed; and when
I knew that it was he to whom I
was committed, I was ashamed,
and a sudden fear came upon me,
and I was utterly overcome with
sadness, because I had spoken so
foolishly unto him.
5 But he said unto me, Be not
ashamed, but receive strength in
thy mind, through the commands
which I am about to deliver unto
thee. For, said he, I am sent to
shew unto thee all those things
again, which thou hast seen before,
but especially such ofthem as may
be of most use unto thee.
6 And first of all write my
Commands and Similitudes, the
*Observe them, Custodite possis. Lat.
rest thou shall so write as I shall
shew unto thee. But I therefore
bid thee first of all write my Com
mands and Similitudes, that by
often reading of them thoumayest
the more easily i keep them in
memory.
7 Whereupon I wrote his Coin
mands and Similitudes, as he bade
Ine.
8 Which things if when you
have heard, ye shall observe to do
them, and shall walk according
to them, and exercise yourselves
in them with a pure mind, ye
shall receive from the Lord those
things which he has promised unto
Oll.
9 But if having heard them ye
shall not repent, but shall still go
on to add to your sins, *ye shall
be punished by him.
10 All these things that Shep.
herd, the angel of repentance,
commanded me to write.
COMMAND I.
Of “believing in one God.
IRST of *all believe that
there is one God who created
and framed all things of nothing
into a being.
2 He comprehends all things,
and is only immense, not to be
comprehended by any.
3 Who can neither be defined
by any words, nor conceived by
the mind.
4 Therefore believe in him, and
fear him ; and fearing him *ab
stain from all evil.
5 Keep these things, and cast
all "lust and iniquity far from
*Adversa recipietis. *Faith.
*Irenaeus. 1 1. c. 3. Origen, de Princ. l. l. c. 3. Euseb. Hist. Eccles. 1. 5. c.
8. Athanas. de Incarn. Verb. &c. * Habe abstinentiam.
cupiscentiam. MSS. Lamb. et Oxon.
*Omnem con
27 209
Against detraction
thee, and put on righteousness,
and thou shalt live to God, if thou
shalt keep this commandment.
COMMAND II.
That we must avoid detraction, and do
our alms-deeds with simplicity.
E said unto me, * Be inno
cent and without disguise;
so shalt thou be like an infant who
knows no malice which destroys
the life of man.
2 Especiallyseethat thou speak
evil of none, nor willingly hear
any one speak evil of any.
3 * For if thou observest not
this, thou also who hearest shalt
be "partaker ofthe sin of him that
speaketh evil, by believing the
slander, and thou also shalt have
sin, because thou believedest him
that spoke evil of thy brother.
4 * Detraction is a pernicious
thing; an inconstant, “evil spirit;
that never continues in peace, but
is always in discord. "Where
fore refrain thyself from it, and
keep peace ever more with thy
brother.
5 Put on an holy 'constancy,
"in which there are no sins, but
all is full of joy; and do good of
thy labours.
6 * Give * without distinction
to all that are in want, not doubt
ing to whom thou givest.
7 But give to all, for God will
have us give to all, of *all his
own gifts. They therefore that
receive shall give an account to
God, both wherefore they received
and for what end.
8 And they that receive without
* Lat.
II. HERMAS.
Have simplicity and be innocent.
and lying.
a real need, shall give an account
for it; but he that gives shall be
innocent.
9 For he has fulfilled his duty
as he received it from God; not
making any choice to whom he
should give, and to whom not.
And this service he did with sim
plicity and * to the glory of God.
10 Keep therefore this com
mand according as I have deli
vered it unto thee; that thy re
pentance may be found to be sin
cere, and that good may come to
thy house; and have a pure heart.
COMMAND III.
Of avoiding lying, and the repentance
of Hermas for his dissimulation.
OREOWER 18 he said unto
me, love truth; and let all
the speech be true which proceeds
out of thy mouth.
2 That the spiritwhich the Lord
hathgivento dwellin thy flesh may
befound true towards all men; and
the Lord be glorified, who hath
given such a spirit unto thee: be
cause God is true in all his words,
and in him there is no lie.
3 They therefore that lie, deny
the Lord, “and become robbers
of the Lord, “not rendering to
God what they received from him.
4 For they received the spirit
free from lying: If therefore they
make that a liar, they defile what
was committed to them by the
Lord, and become deceivers.
5 When I heard this, I wept
bitterly; and when he saw me
weeping, he said unto me, Why
* Gr. "Et be un, kat orv axovov
sixo som. *So the Gr. and Lamb. MS. Particeps eris peccatimale loquentis,
credens: tu habebis peccatum.
* The Greek hath ovv.
spreserved by Athanasius,
* Wid. Antioch. Hom. xxix.
7 Rather Simplicity; according to the Greek readin
* Gr. in which there is no evil offence, but
* Daemon.
thingssmooth and delightful, evous ovčev trpookoppa earuv trovnoov, a\\a wavra
opiaNa Ky d\awa.
uðov 8amuarov.
*Antioch Hom. lxvi.
ix. v. 268 et seq.
* Vid Antioch. Hom. xcviii.
MS. Lamb. de suis dodis.
* According to the Gr.
"Simply. 11 G. ex rev
* Gloriously to God.
* See III. Hermas Simil
210
Of putting away
weepest thou? And I said, Be
cause, sir, I doubt whether I can
be saved ?
6 He asked me, Wherefore? I
replied, Because, sir, I never
spake a true word in my life; but
always lived in dissimulation, and
affirmed a lie for truth to all men;
and no man contradicted me, but
all gave credit to my words. How
ther can I live, seeing I have
done in this manner.
7 And he said unto me. Thou
thinkest well and truly. For thou
oughtest, as the servant of God,
to have walked in the truth, and
not have joined an evil conscience
with the spirit of truth, nor have
grieved the holy and true Spirit
of God.
8 And I replied unto him, Sir,
I never before hearkened so dili
gently to these things. He an
swered, Now thou hearest them :
Take care from henceforth, that
even those things which thou hast
formerly spoken falsely for the
sake of thy business, may, "by
thy present truth receive credit.
9 For even those things may
be credited, if for the time to come
thou shalt speak the truth; and
* by so doing thou mayest attain
unto life.
10 And whosoever shall heark
en unto this command, and do it,
and shall depart from all lying,
he shall live unto God.
COMMAND IV.
Of putting away one's wife for adultery.
URTHERMORE, said he, I
commandthee,that thou keep
*thyself chaste; and that thou
suffer not any thought of any
other marriage, or of fornication,
*Through these words. Lat. His verbis et illa fidem recipiant.
* Another man'a,
shalt keep the truth. "Chastity.
COMMAND IV. a wife for adultery.
to enter into thy heart : for such
a thought produces great sin.
2. But be thou at alltimes mind
ful of the Lord, and thou shalt
never sin. For if such an evil
thought should arise in thy heart,
thou shouldest beguilty of a great
sin; and they who do such things,
follow the way of death.
3 Look therefore to thyself, and
keep thyself from such a thought;
for where chastity remains in the
heart of a righteous man, there an
evil thought ought never to arise.
4 And I said unto him, Sir, suf
fer me to speak a little to you.
He bade me say on. And I an
swered, Sir, if a man that is faith
ful in the Lord shall have a wife,
and shall catch her in adultery;
doth a man sin that continues to
live still with her?
5 And he said unto me, As long
as he is ignorant of her sin, he
commits no fault in living with
her ; but if a man shall know his
wife to have offended, and she
shall not repent of her sin, but go
on still in her fornication, and a
man shall continue nevertheless
to live with her, he shall become
guilty of her sin, and partake with
her in her adultery.
6 And I said unto him, What
therefore is to be done, if the wo
man continues on in her sin He
answered, Let her husband put
her away, and let him continue
by himself. But if he shall put
away his wife, and marry another,
he also doth commit adultery.
7 And I said, What if the wo
man that is so put away, shall re
pent, and be willing to return to
her husband, shall she not be re
ceived by him $ He said unto me,
Yes; and if her husband shall
*If thou
21y
Of putting away
not receive her, he will sin, and
commit a great offence against
himself: but he ought to receive
the offender, if she repents; only
not often.
8 For to the servants of God
there is but one repentance. And
for this cause a man that putteth
away his wife ought not to take
another, because she may re
pent.
9 This act is alike both in the
man and in the woman. Now
they commit adultery, not only
who pollute their flesh, but who
also make an image. *If there
fore a woman perseveres in any
thing of this kind, and repents not,
depart from her, and live not with
her, otherwise thou also shalt be
partaker of her sin.
10 But it is therefore com
manded that both the man and
the woman should remain un
married, because such persons
may repent.
11 Nor do I in this administer
any occasion for the doing of these
things; but rather that whoso
has offended, should not offend
any more.
12 But for their former sins,
God who has the power of heal
ing will give a remedy; for he
has the power of all things.
13 "I I asked him again and
said, Seeing the Lord hath
thought me worthy that thou
shouldest dwell with me conti
nually, speak a few words unto
me, because I understand nothing,
and my heart is hardened through
my former conversation; and
open my “understanding because
I am very dull, and apprehend
nothing at all.
14 And he answering said unto
* See 1 Cor. vii. 15. *Sense.
*Great wisdom.
II. HERMAS.
* Praepositus.
*In his understanding.
a wife for adultery.
me, I am the * minister of re
pentance, and give * understand
ing to all that repent. Does it
not seem to thee to be * a very
wise thing to repent Because he
that does so gets great under
standing.
15 For he is sensible that he
hath sinned and done wickedly in
the sight of the Lord, and he re
members * within himself that he
has offended, and repents and does
no more wickedly, but does that
which is good, and humbles his
soul and afflicts it, because he has
offended. You see therefore that
repentance is great wisdom.
16 And I said unto him, For
this cause, sir, I inquire diligently
into all things, because I am a
sinner, that I may know what I
must do that I may live; because
my sins are many.
17 And he said unto me, Thou
shalt live if thou shalt keep these
my commandments. And whoso
ever shall hear and do these com
mands shall live unto God.
18 "I And I said unto him, I
have even now heard from certain
teachers, that there is no other re
pentance beside that of baptism ;
when we go down into the water,
and receive the forgiveness of our
sins; and that after that, we must
sin no more, but live in "purity.
19 And he said unto me, Thou
has been "rightly informed. Ne
vertheless seeing now thou inquir
est diligently into all things, I
will manifest this also unto thee:
yet not so as to give any occasion
of sinning either to those who
shall hereafter believe, or to those
who have already believed in the
Lord.
20 For neither they who have
*See below, v. 18 et j.
* Chastity. "Rightly hear
212
continued.
* newly believed, or who shall here
after believe, have any repentance
of sins, but forgiveness of them.
21 But as to those who have
been called to the faith, and since
that are fallen into any gross sin,
the Lord hath appointed repent
ance, because God knoweth the
thoughts of all men's hearts, and
their infirmities, and the mani
fold wickedness of the devil, who
is always contriving something
against the servants of God, and
maliciously lays snares for them.
22 Therefore our merciful Lord
had compassion towards his crea
ture, and appointed that repent
ance, and gave unto me the pow
er of it. And therefore I say unto
thee, if any one after that great
and holy calling shall be tempted
by the devil and sin, he has one
* repentance. But if he shall often
sin and repent, it shall not profit
such a one ; for he shall hardly
live unto God.
23 And I said, Sir, I am re
stored again to life since I have
thus diligently hearkened to these
commands. For I perceive that
if I shall not hereafter add any
more to my sins, I shall be saved.
24 And he said, Thou shalt be
saved : and so shall all others, as
many as shall observe these com
mandments.
25 || Andagain I saidunto him,
Sir, seeing thou hearest me pa
tiently shew me yet one thing
more. Tell me, saith he, what it
18.
26 And I said, If a husband
or a wife die, and the party which
survives marry again, does he sin
COMMAND W. Of sadness of heart.
in so doing? " He that marries
says he, sins not : howbeit, if he
shall remain single, he shall there
by gain to himself great honour
before the Lord.
27 Keep therefore thy chastity
and modesty, and thou shalt live
unto God. Observe from hence
forth those things which I speak
with thee, and command thee to
observe, from the time * that I
have been delivered unto thee,
and dwell in thy house.
28 So shall thy former sins be
forgiven, if thou shalt keep these
my commandments. And in like
manner shall all others be for
given, who shall observe these my
commandments.
COMMAND W.
Of the sadness of the heart, and of
patience.
E patient, says he, and "long
suffering; so shalt thou have
dominion over all wicked works,
and shalt 6 fulfil all righteousness.
2 For if thou shalt be patient,
the Holy Spirit which dwelleth
in thee shall be pure, and not be
darkened by any evil spirit; but
being full ofjoy shall be enlarged,
and feast 7 in the body in which it
dwells, and 8 serve the Lord with
joy, and in great peace.
3 But if any 9 anger shall over
take thee, presentlythe HolySpirit
which is in thee will be straight
ened and seek to depart from
thee.
4 For he is choaked by the evil
spirit, and has not the "liberty of
11 serving the Lord as he would,
for he is grieved by 1° anger.
* MS. Lamb. Qui modo. crediderunt, Who have just now believed
* Wid. Annot. Coteler. in loc. pp. 60, 61
64 B.C. Rom. vii. 3. Comp. 1 Cor. vii.
* Wid, not. Coteler. in loc. p.
*SM. Lamb. medius; Ex quo
mihi traditus es, That thou hast been delivered unto me, and I dwell, etc.
* Gr. Makpoévpios. MS. Lam. Animaequus.
Lamb. melius, Cum. vase. Et Gr. Hera row orkevous, with the body or vessel.
*Gr. Aetrovpyet to kvpw.
* Gr. 'Asiroupymoral
*OğuxoMa, Gr. Bitterness of gall.
*’OévyoAta.
& Work. 7 SM.
10 Place.
213
Of sadness of heart,
1 When, therefore, both these spi
rits dwell together, it is destruc
tive to a man.
5 As if one should take a little
wormwood, and put it into a ves
sel of honey, the whole honey
would be spoiled; and a great
quantity of honey is corrupted by
a very little wormwood, and loses
the sweetness of honey, and is no
longer acceptable to its Lord be
cause the whole honey is made
bitter, and loses its use.
6 But if no wormwood be put
into the honey, it is sweet and
profitable to its Lord. Thus is
forbearance sweeter than honey,
and profitable to the Lord who
dwelleth in it.
7 But anger is unprofitable.
If therefore anger shall be mixed
with forbearance, the soul is dis
tressed, and its prayer is not pro
fitable 2 with God.
8 And I said unto him, Sir, I
would know the sinfulness of an
ger, that I may keep myself from
it. And he said unto me, Thou
shalt know it; and if thou shalt
not keep thyself from it, thou
shalt lose thy hope with all thy
house. Wherefore depart from it.
9 For I the 8 messenger of
righteousness am with thee; and
all that depart from it, as many as
shall repent with all their hearts,
shall live unto God; and I will be
with them, and will keep them
all
10 For all such as have repent
ed have been justified by the
most holy messenger, who is a
minister of salvation.
11 T And now, says he, hear
II. HERMAS, and of patience.
the wickedness of anger; how
evil and hurtful it is, and how it
overthrows the servants of God :
for it cannot * hurt those that are
full of faith because the 5 power
of God is with them ; but it over
throws the doubtful, and thosethat
are destitute of faith.
12 For as often as it sees 6 such
men, it casts itself into their
hearts; and so a man or woman
is in bitterness for nothing, for
the things of life, or for suste
nance, or for a vain word, if any
should chance to fall in; or by
reason of any friend, or for a debt,
or for any other superfluous things
of the like nature.
13 For these things are foolish,
and superfluous, and vain to the
servants of God. But equanimity
is strong, and forcible ; and of
great power, and sitteth in great
enlargement; is cheerful, rejoic
ing in peace; and glorifying God
at all times 7 with meekness.
14 And this long-suffering
dwells with those that are full of
faith. But anger is foolish, and
light, and empty. Now bitter
ness is bred through folly; by
bitterness, anger; by anger, fury.
And this fury arising from so
many evil principles, worketh a
great and uncurable sin.
15 For when all these things
are in the same 8 man in which
the Holy Spirit dwells, the vessel
cannot contain them, but runs
over : and because the Spirit be
ing tender cannot tarry with the
evil one ; it departs and dwells
with him that is meek.
16 When, therefore, it is de
* Both Athanasius and Antiochus add these words, omitted in our copies:
“For in forbearance (or long suffering) the Lord dwelleth, but in bitterness
the Devil.” ”To.
facere. * Wirtue.
*Angel.
"Gr. Totovrovs avéporovs.
* Gr. work upon evepymoral ; et MS. Lamb.
sius and Antiochus the sense is fuller: Having nothing of bitterness in
itself, and continuing always in meekness, and quietness.
7 In the Greek of Athana
* Wessel.
214
Every man
arted from the man in whom it
welt; that man becomes desti
tute of the Holy Spirit, and is af.
terwards filledwith wickedspirits,”
and is blinded with evil thoughts.
Thus doth it happen to all angry
IIlen.
17 Wherefore depart thou from
anger and put on equanimity, and
resist wrath; so thou shalt be
* found with modesty and chastity
by God. Take good heed there
fore that thou neglect not this
commandment.
18 For if thou shalt obey this
command, then shalt thou also be
able to observe the other com
mandments, which I shall com
mand thee.
19 Wherefore strengthen thy
self now in these commands, that
thou mayest live unto God. And
whosoever shall observe these
commandments shall live unto
God.
COMMAND IV.
That every man has two 8angels, and
of the suggestions of both.
COMMANDED thee, said
he, in my first command
ments, that thou shouldst keep
faith and fear, and * repentance.
Yes, Sir, said I.
2 He continued: But now I
will shew thee the virtues of these
commands, that thou mayest
know their effects; how they are
* prescribed alike to the just and
unjust.
3 Do thou therefore believe the
righteous, but give no credit to
the unrighteous. For righteous
COMMAND WI. has two angels.
ness keepeth the right way, but
unrighteousness the wicked way.
4 Do thou therefore keep the
right way, and leave that which
is evil. For the evil way has not
a good end, but hath many stum
bling-blocks; it is rugged and full
of thorns, and leads to destruc.
tion; and it is hurtful to all such
as walk in it.
5 But they who go in the right
way, walk with evenness, and
without offence ; because it is not
rough nor thorny.
6 Thou seest therefore how it
is best to walk in this way. Thou
shalt therefore go, says he, and
all others, as many as believe in
God with all their heart, shall go
through it.
7 'ſ And now, says he; * under
stand first of all what belongs to
faith. There are two angels with
man; one of righteousness, the
other of iniquity.
8 And I said unto him : Sir,
how shall I know that there are
two such angels with man? Hear
says he, and understand.
9 The angel of righteousness,
is mild and modest, and gentle,
and quiet. When therefore, he
gets into thy heart, immediately
he talks with thee of righteous
ness, of modesty, of chastity, of
bountifulness, of forgiveness, of
charity, and piety.
10 When all these things come
into thy heart, know then that
the angel of righteousness is with
thee. Wherefore hearken to this
angel and to his works.
11 Learn also the works of the
* In the Greek of Athanasius follow these words, omitted in the Lat. Vers.
of Hermas: “And is unstable in all his doings, being drawn hither and
thither by wicked men.” * In the Greek of Athanasius it runs better thus,
44 Fº with reverence by those who are beloved of God.” “Wid.
Coteler. Annot. in loc. pp. 67, 68. Comp. Edit. Oxon. p. 61, Note a.
* Lat. Paenitentiam ; it should rather be Abstinetiam; as in the Greek of
Athanasius: as appears by the first Commandment, which is here referred
to. *Place, Lat. Posita sunt. *Wid. Antioch. Hom. lxi. Comp. Orig.
1. iii. De Princip. et in Luc. Hom. xxiv.
215
Familiar angels.
angel of iniquity. He is first of
all bitter, and angry, and foolish ;
and his works are pernicious, and
overthrow the servants of God.
When therefore these things come
into thy heart; thou shalt know
by his works, that this is the angel
of iniquity.
12 And I said unto him, Sir,
how shall I understand these
things? Hear, says he, and under
stand. When anger overtakes
thee, or bitterness, know that he
is in thee :
13 As also, when the desire of
many things, and of the best
meats and of drunkenness ; when
the love of what belongs to others,
pride, and much speaking, and
ambition, and the like things,
come upon thee.
14 When therefore these things
arise in thy heart, know that the
angel of iniquity is with thee. See
ing therefore thou knowest his
works, depart from them all, and
give no credit to him : because
his works are evil, and become
not the servants of God.
15 Here therefore thou hast the
works of both these angels. Un
derstand now and believe the an
gel of righteousness, because his
instruction is good.
16 For let a man be never so
happy; yet if the thoughts of the
other angel arise in his heart, that
man or woman must needs sin.
17 But let man or woman be
never so wicked, if the works of
the angel of righteousness come
into his heart, that man or woman
must needs do some good.
18 Thou seest therefore how
It is good to follow the angel of
righteousness. If therefore thou
II. HERMAS. We must fear Goa
shall follow him, and 2 submit to
his works, thoushalt live unto God.
And as many as shall ” submit to
his work, shall live also unto God.
COMMAND WII.
That we must fear God, but not the
Devil.
Fº:* God, says he, and keep
his commandments. For if
thou keepest his commandments
thou shalt be powerful in every
work, and all thy works shall be
“excellent. For by fearing God,
thou shalt do every thing well.
2 This is that fear with which
thou must be affected that thou
mayest be saved. But fear not
the Devil: for if thou fearest the
Lord, thou shalt have dominion
over him; because there is no
power in him.
3 Now if there be no power in
him, then neither is he to be
feared. But he in whom there is
excellent power, he is to be
feared : for every one that has
power, is to be feared. But he
that has no power is despised by
every one.
4 Fear the works of the Devil,
because they are evil. For by
fearing the Lord, thou wilt fear
and not do the works of the Devil,
but keep thyself from them.
5 There is therefore a twofold
fear; if thou wilt not do evil,
fear the Lord and thou shalt not
do it. But if thou wilt do good,
6 the fear of the Lord is strong,
and great and glorious.
6 Wherefore, fear God and
thou shalt live : and whosoever
shall fear him, and keep his com
mandments, their life is with the
Lord. But they who keep them
not, neither is life in them.
*Works. Gr. ºrpaësov. "Gr. ºrigrevgns, Lat. Credideris, Believe. "Wid.
Antioch. Hom. exxvii. Eccles. xii. 13.
or without mixture. * Gr. Antioch.
*Aavyxpmros, Without comparison :
° In the Gr. of Antioch these words
follow, which make the connection more clear: “Fear also the Iord, and
thou shalt be able to do it, for.”
216
We must flee evil
COMMAND WIII.
That we mustjlee from evil, and do good.
HAVE told thee, said he,
that there are two kinds of
creatures of the Lord, and that
there is a two-fold * abstinence.
From some things therefore thou
must abstain, and from others
not.
2 I answered, Declare to me,
sir, from what I must abstain,
and from what not. Hearken,
said he. Keep thyself from evil,
and do it not ; but abstain not
from good, but do it. For if thou
shalt abstain from what is good,
and not do it, thoushalt sin. Ab
stain therefore from all evil, and
thou shalt” know all righteous
IneSS.
3 I said, What evil things are
they from which I must abstain?
Hearken, said he from adultery,
from drunkenness, from riots,
from excess of eating, from dain
tiness and dishonesty, from pride,
from fraud, from lying, from de
traction, from hypocrisy, from re
membrance of injuries, and from
all evil speaking.
4 For these are the works of
iniquity, from which the servant of
God must abstain. For he that
cannot keep himself from these
things, cannot live unto God.
5 But hear, said he, what fol
lows of these kind of things: for
indeed many more there are from
which the servant of God must ab
stain. From theft, and cheating;
from false witness, from covetous
ness, from boasting, and all other
things of the like nature.
6 Do these things eaem to thee
to be evil or not Indeed they
* Antioch. Hom. lxxix. 2 Do
* Wid. Coteler. in loc.
COMMAND WIII. and do good.
are very evil to the servants of
God. Wherefore the servant of
God must abstain from all these
* works.
7 Keep thyself therefore from
them, that thou mayest live unto
God, and be written among those
that abstain from them. And
thus have I shown thee what
things thou must avoid : now
learn from what thou must not
abstain.
8. Abstain not from any good
works, but do them. Hear, said
he, what the virtue of those good
works is which thou must do, that
thou mayest be saved. The first
of all is faith; the fear of the
Lord ; charity; concord; equity;
truth ; patience; chastity.
9 There is nothing better than
these things in the life of man ;
* who shall keep and do these
things in their life. Hear next
what follow these.
10 To minister to the widows;
not to despise the fatherless and
poor; to redeem the servants of
God from necessity; to be hospit
able; (for in hospitality there is
sometimes *great fruit) not to be
contentious, but be quiet.
11 To be humble above all
men; to reverence the aged; to
labour to be righteous; * to re
spect the brotherhood; to bear
affronts ; to be long-suffering ;
" not to cast away those that have
fallen from the faith, but to con
vert them, and make them be of
*good cheer; to admonish sinners;
not to oppress those that are our
debtors; and all other things of a
like kind.
12 Do these things seem to thee
according to the Greek, epyačopievous.
“The sense here is defective, and may be thus
restored from the Greek of Athanasius:—Whoever keeps these things, and
doth not abstain from them, shall be happy in his life. "And so the
* Gr, ayaboroumous, good deed. . "
MS. : Haec qui custodierit.
*Add from the Gr. ofAthanasius and Antiochus: Not to remember injuries;
To comfort those who labour in their minds.
28
mb.
ovvrmpetv.
* Fuðvuov.
217
We must ask of God
to be good or not? And I said,
What can be better than these
words? Live then, said he, in
these commandments, and do not
depart from them. For if thou
shalt keep all these command
ments, thou shalt live unto God.
And all they that shall keep these
commandments shall live unto
God.
COMMAND IX.
That we must ask of God daily; and
without doubting.
GAIN he said unto me ;
* remove from thee all doubt
ing; and question nothing at all,
when thou askest anything of the
Lord; saying within thyself: how
shall I be able to ask anything of
the Lord and receive it, seeing I
have so greatly sinned against
him 2
2 Do not think thus, but turn
unto the Lord with all thy heart,
and ask of him without doubting,
and thou shalt know the mercy of
the Lord; how that he will not
forsake thee, but will fulfil the re
quest of thy soul.
3 For God is not as men, mind
ful of the injuries he has re
ceived; but he forgets injuries,
and has compassion upon his
creature.
4 Wherefore purify thy heart
from all the vices of this present
world; and observe the commands
I have before delivered unto thee
from God; and thou shalt receive
whatsoever good things thou shalt
ask, and nothing shall be wanting
unto thee of all thy petitions; if
thou shalt ask of the Lord without
doubting.
5 *But they that are not such,
II. HERMAS, daily, in fattra.
shall obtain none of those things
which they ask. For they that are
full of faith ask all things with
confidence, and receive from the
Lord, because they ask without
doubting. But he that doubts,
shall hardly live unto God, except
he repent.
6 Wherefore purify thy heart
from doubting, and put on faith,
and trust in God, and thou shalt
receive all that thou shalt ask.
But and if thou shouldest chance
to ask somewhat and not ("imme
diately) receive it, yet do not there
fore doubt, because thou hast not
presently received the petition of
thy soul.
7 For it may be thou shalt not
presently receive it for thy trial,
or else for some sin which thou
knowest not. But do not thou
leave off to ask, * and then thou
shalt receive. Else if thou shalt
cease to ask, thou must complain
of thyself, and not of God, that
he has not given unto thee what
thou didst desire.
8 Consider therefore this doubt
ing, how cruel and pernicious it
is ; and how it utterly roots out
many from the faith, who were
very faithful and firm. For this
doubting is the daughter of the
Devil, and deals very wickedly
with the servants of God.
9 Despise it therefore, and thot
shalt rule over it * on every occa
sion. Put on a firm and powerful
faith : for faith promises all things
and perfects all things. But
doubting will not believe, that it
shall obtain anything, by all that
it can do.
10 Thou seest therefore, says
*Wid. Antioch. Hom.lxxxiii. Confer. Fragm. D. Grabe. Spicileg. tomi,
page 303. *Add from the Gr, both of Athanasius and Antiochus; But if
thou doubtest in thy heart, thou shalt receive none of thy petitions. For
those who distrust (or doubt of) God, are like the double minded, who
shall obtain noneof these things.
so the Gr. Bpaôvrepo Mapſ?avels.
" In every thing.
*So MS Lamb. Tardius accipias: and
* Asking the petition of thy soul
2] 8
Of the sadness
he, how faith cometh from above,
from God; and hath great power.
But doubting is an earthly spirit,
and proceedeth from the Devil,
and has no strength.
11 Do thou therefore keep the
virtue of faith, and depart from
doubting, in which is no virtue,
and thou shalt live unto God.
And all shall live unto God, as
many as do these things.
COMMAND X.
Of the sadness of the heart ; and that we
must take heed not to grieve the spirit
of God that is in us.
UT all sadness far from thee;
for it is the sister of doubting
and of anger. How, sir, said I,
is it the sister of these ? for sad
ness, and anger, and doubting,
seem to me to be very different
from one another.
2 And he answered: 1 Art thou
without sense that thou dost not
understand it ! For sadness is the
most mischievous of all spirits,
and the worst to the servants of
God: "It destroys the spirits of all
men, and torments the Holy Spi
rit ; and again, it saves.
3 Sir, said I, I am very foolish,
and understand not these “things.
I cannot apprehend how it can
torment, and yet save. Hear,
said he, and understand. They
who never sought out the truth,
nor inquired concerning the ma
jesty of God, but only believed,
are involved in the affairs of the
heathen.
4 And there is another "lying
prophet that destroys the "minds
of the servants of God; that is
of those that are doubtful, not of
those that fully trust in the Lord.
Now those doubtful persons come
to him, as to a divine spirit, and
* Without sense thou dost not understand it.
COMMAND X. of the heart.
inquire of him what shall befall
them.
5 And this lying prophet hav
ing no power in him of the divine
Spirit, answers them according to
their demands, and fills their
souls with promises according as
they desire. Howbeit that pro
phet is vain, and answers vain
things to those who are themselves
Waln.
6 And whatsoever is asked of
him by vain men, he answers
them vainly. Nevertheless he
speaketh some things truly. For
the Devil fills him with his spirit,
that he may overthrow some of the
righteous.
7 * Whosoever therefore are
strong in the faith of the Lord.
and have put on the truth: they
are not joined to such spirits, but
depart from them. But they that
are doubtful, and often repenting
like the heathens, consult them,
and heap up to themselves great
sin, serving idols.
8 As many therefore as are
such, inquire of them upon every
occasion ; worship idols; and are
foolish, and void of the truth.
9 For every spirit that is given
from God needs not to be asked ;
but having the power of divinity
speaks all things of itself; because
he comes from above, from the
power of God.
10 But he that being asked
speaks according to men's desires,
and concerning many other affairs
of this present world, understands
not the things which relate unto
God. For these spirits are dark
ened through such affairs, and cor
rupted and broken.
11 As good vines if they are
neglected, are oppressed with
* So the Lat. Wers. But
the Gr. of Athanasius is better : And destroyeth more than any other
spirit. *Questions.
* Lat. Sensus : from the Greek Novs.
* Wid. Epit. Oxon. p. 70 b. Comp. 2 Cor. vii. 10.
219
We must not grieve
weeds and thorns, and at last
killed by them ; so are the men
who believe such spirits.
12 They fall into many actions
and businesses, and are void of
sense,” and when they think of
things pertaining unto God, they
understand nothing at all: but if
at any time they chance to hear
anything concerning the Lord,
their "thoughts are upon their
business.
13 But they that have the fear
of the Lord, and search out the
truth concerning God, “having
all their thoughts towards the
Lord ; apprehend whatsoever is
said to them, and forthwith un
derstand it, because they have the
fear of the Lord in them.
14 For where the spirit of the
Lord dwells, there is also 4 much
understanding added. Where
fore join thyself to the Lord,
* and thou shalt understand all
things.
15 Mſ Learn now, O unwise
man I how sadness "troubleth the
Holy Spirit, and how it saves.
When a man that is doubtful is
engaged in any affair, and does
not accomplish it by reason of his
doubting, this sadness enters into
him, and grieves the Holy Spirit,
and makes him sad.
16 Again, anger when it over
takes any man for any business
he is greatly moved; " and then
*And understand nothing at all, thinking of riches.
II. HERMAS. the spirit of God.
again sadness entereth into the
heart of him, who was moved
with anger, and he is troubled for
what he hath done, and repenteth,
because he hath done amiss.
17 This sadness therefore seem
eth to bring salvation, because he
repenteth of his evil deed. But
both the other things, namely,
doubting and sadness, such as be
fore was mentioned, vex the spirit:
doubting, because his work did not
succeed : and sadness, because he
angered the Holy Spirit.
18 ° Remove therefore sadness
from thyself," and afflict not the
Holy Spirit which dwelleth in
thee, lest he "intreat God, and
depart from thee. For the spirit
of the Lord * which is given to
dwell in the flesh, endureth no
such sadness.
19 Wherefore clothe thyself
with cheerfulness, which has al
ways favour with the Lord, and
thou shalt rejoice in it. For every
cheerful man does well; and re
lishes those things that are good,
and despises * sadness.
20 But the sad man does al
ways wickedly. * First, he doth
wickedly, because he grieveth the
Holy Spirit, which is given to
man, being of a cheerful nature.
And again he does ill, because he
prays with sadness unto the Lord,
and maketh not first a thankful
acknowledgment unto him of for
Lat. * Senses.
*Gr. of Athanasius, Kapòlav º's "pºpº So that the Latin should be
Habentes, not Habent.
bulat.
Gr. ovvmorus troA\m.
And so in the Lamb. MS. Omnia scies.
* Gr. travrov vonoress.
* Gr. ekrpuflet. MS. Lamb. Contri.
* In the Greek of Athanasius, follows kat woumorm ri kakov. and he
doth something which is ill. Which better agrees with what follows, Because
he hath done amiss. The text in this place being evidently corrupted, it has
been endeavoured to restore the true sense ofit from the Greek ofAthanasius,
which is as follows: tra)\w m Avrm euornopeweral ess rmv Kapòlav row avéporov
row ośvxoMoravrvs, kal Avireural ett rm Trpače, avrov m empačev kau Heravost or
movmpov supyaoraro. Avrm ovv m \varm Šoket Çormpuav exeuv, ort ro trovmpov
rpačas per' evonorev. Apºporspat be rov ſpačeov Avrovoi, &c. *Antioch.
OIn. XXV. * Gr. Mm 6\lfle, MS. Lamb. Noli nocere. 10 Gr, Mn
evrévêntau ra 6ew. Comp. Rom. vii. 27. * Gr. To 806ev ess rºw ora ema,
ravrºv Avrmy ovk viroqepsi. "Gr. Avrms. *So the Greek: o 8s Avpppos
avmp wavrote trovmpeveral. porov prev movmpeveral, &c.
220
Spirits and Prophets
mer mercies, and obtains not of
God what he asks.
21 For the prayer of a sad man
has not always efficacy to come
up to the altar of God. And I
said unto him, Sir, why has not
the prayer of a sad man virtue to
come up to the altar of God? be
cause, said he, that sadness re
maineth in his heart.
22 When therefore a man's
prayer shall be accompanied with
sadness, it will not suffer his re
quests to ascend pure to the altar
of God. For as wine when it is
mingled with vinegar, has not the
sweetness it had before ; so sad
ness being mixed with the Holy
Spirit, suffers not a man's prayer
to be the same as it would be
otherwise.
23 Wherefore cleanse thyself
from sadness, which is evil, and
thou shalt live unto God. And
all others shall live unto God, as
many as shall lay aside sadness,
and put on cheerfulness.
COMMAND XI.
That the spirits and prophets are to be
tried by their works ; and of a two
fold spirit.
E shewed me certain men
sitting upon benches, and
one sitting in a chair: and he
said unto me; seest thou those
who sit upon the benches? Sir,
said I, I see them. He answered,
They are the faithful; and he
who sits in the chair is an earthly
spirit.
2 For he cometh not into the
assembly of the faithful, but avoids
it. But he joins himself to the
doubtful and empty; and prophe
sies to them in corners and hid
* Church of the living.
COMDMAND XI. to be tried by works.
den places; and pleases them by
speaking according to all the de
sires of their hearts.
3 For he placing himself among
empty vessels, is not broken, but
the one fitteth the other. But
when he cometh into the company
of just men, who are full of the
spirit of God, and they pray unto
the Lord; that man is "emptied
because that earthly spirit flies
from him, and he is dumb, and
cannot speak any thing.
4 As if in a store-house you
shall stop up wine or oil; and
among those vessels shall place an
empty jar; and shall afterwards
come to open it, you shall find it
empty as you stopped it up : so
those empty prophets when they
come among the spirits of the just,
are found to be such as they
came.*
5 "I I said, How then shall a
man be able to discern them 1
Consider what I am going to say
considering both kinds of *men;
and as I speak unto thee so shalt
thou prove the prophet of God,
and the false prophet.
6 And first try the man who
hath the spirit of God; because
the spirit which is from above is
humble, and quiet; and departs
from all wickedness; and from
the vain desires of the present
world; and makes himself more
humble than all men; and an
swers to none when he is asked ;
nor to every one singly : for the
Spirit of God doth not speak to a
man when he will, but when God
pleases.
7. When therefore a man who
hath the Spirit of God shall come
* Have the Spirit of God in them. *Exinanitur.
*Something was wanting in this place tomakethe subject clear, and it wassug
gested to Archbishop Wake,by Dr. Grabe, that what should have followed was
transposedinto thenextcommand. Accordingly the Archbishop reduced both
places to what he conceived should be their true order, and in that state they
now stand. * Wessels.
221
Of a two-fold spirit.
into the church of the righteous,
who have the faith of God, and
they pray unto the Lord ; then
the holy angel of God fills that
man with the blessed Spirit, and
he speaks in the congregation as
he is moved of God.
8 Thus therefore is the spirit
of God known, because whosoever
speaketh by the Spirit of God,
speaketh as the Lord will.
9 Hear now concerning the
earthly spirit, which is empty and
foolish, and without virtue. And
first of all the man who is sup
posed to have the Spirit, (whereas
he hath it not in reality), exalteth
himself, and desires to have the
first seat, and is wicked, and full
of words.
10 And spends his time in
pleasure, and in all manner of
voluptuousness; and receives the
reward of his divination; which
if he receives not, he does not di
vine.
11 Should the Spirit of God
receive reward and divine ! It
doth not become a prophet of God
so to do.
12 Thus you see the life of each
of these kind of prophets. Where- ||
fore prove that man by his life and
works, who says that he hath the
Holy Spirit. And believe the
Spirit which comes from God, and
has power as such. But believe
not the earthly and empty spirit,
which is from the devil, in whom
there is no faith nor virtue.
13 Haar now the similitude
which I am about to speak unto
thee. Take a stone, and throw it
up towards heaven; or take a
spout of water, and mount it up
thitherward ; and see if thou
canst reach unto heaven.
1 Wid. Antioch. Hom. lxxiv.
II. HERMAS. Of a two-fold desire
14 Sir, said I, how can this be
done? For neither of those things
which you have mentioned, are
possible to be done. And he an
swered, Therefore as these things
cannot be done, so is the earthly
spirit without virtue, and without
effect.
15 Understand yet farther the
power which cometh from above,
in this similitude. The grains of
hail that drop down are exceed
ing small ; and yet when they
fall upon the head of a man, how
do they cause pain to it!
16 And again; consider the
droppings of a house: how the
little drops falling upon the earth,
work a hollow in the stones.
17 So in like manner the least
things which come from above,
and fall upon the earth, have great
force. Wherefore join thyself
to this spirit, which has the power;
and depart from the other which
is empty.
COMMAND XII.
Of a twofold desire: that the com
mands of God are not impossible :
and that the devil is not to be feared
by them that believe.
GAIN he said unto me; ‘re
move from thee all evil de
sires, and put on good and holy
desires. For having put on a
good desire, thou shalt hate that
which is evil, and bridle it as thou
wilt. But an evil desire is dread
ful, and hard to be tamed.
2 It is very horrible and wild:
and by its wildness consumes men.
And especially if a servant of God
shall chance to fall into it, except
he be very wise, he *is ruined by
it. For it destroys those who have
not the garment of a good desire:
and *are engaged in the affairs of
* MS. Lamb. Consumitur, et Gr. Athanas.
Samavarai. "Gr. Athanas, spirequppevous ro atov rovro. Instead of impli
eateos, the Lat. Vers, should be Implicatos.
222
God's commands
this present world; and delivers
them unto death.
3 * Sir, said I, what are the
works of an evildesire, whichbring
men unto death? Shew them to
me, that I may depart from them.
Hear, said he, by what works an
evil desire bringeth the servants
of God unto death.
4 First of all, it is an evil desire
to covet another man's wife ; or
for a woman to covet another's hus
band; as also to desire the dain
ties of riches: and multitude of
superfluous meats; and drunken
ness; and many delights.
5 For in much delicacy there is
folly; and manypleasures are need
less to the servants of God. Such
lusting therefore is evil and perni
cious, which brings to death the
servants of God. For all such
lusting is from the devil.
6 Whosoever therefore shall
depart from all evil desires, shall
live unto God; but they that are
subject unto them shall die for
ever. For this evillusting is dead
ly. Do thou therefore put on the
desire of righteousness, and being
armed with the fear of the Lord,
resist all wicked lusting.
7 For this fear dwelleth in good
desires; and when evil coveting
shall see thee armed with the fear
of the Lord, and resisting it, it
will fly far from thee, and not
appearingbefore thee, butbe afraid
of thy armour.
8 And thou shalt have the vic
tory, and be crowned for it; and
shalt attain to that desire which
is good; and shalt give the victory
which thou hast obtained unto
God, and shalt serve him in doing
what thou thyself wouldest do.
9 For if thou shalt serve good
desires, and be subject to them;
COMMAND XII. not impossible.
thou shalt be able to get the do
minion over thy wicked lustings;
and they shall be subject to thee
as thou wilt.
10 *ſ And I said, Sir, I would
know how to serve that desire
which is good? Hearken, said he,
Fear God and put thy trust in
him, and love truth, and righte
ousness, and do that which is
good.
11 Ifthou shalt do these things,
thou shalt be an approved servant
of God ; and shalt serve him : and
all others who shall in like man
ner serve a good desire shall live
unto God.
12 ºſ And when he had fulfilled
these twelve commands, he said
unto me, Thou hast now these
commands, walk in them; and ex
hort those that hear them that
repent, and that they keep their
repentance pure all the remaining
days of their life.
13 And fulfil diligently this
ministry which I commit to thee,
and thou shalt receive great ad
vantage by it ; and shalt find fa
vour with all such as shall repent,
and shall believe thy words. For
I am with thee, and will force
them to believe.
14 And I said unto him, Sir,
these commands are great and ex
cellent, and able to cheer the heart
of that man that shall be able to
keep them. But, Sir, I cannot
tell, whether they can be observed
by any man?
15 He answered, Thou shalt
easily keep these commands, and
they shall not be hard : howbeit,
if thou shalt suffer it once to enter
into thy heart that they cannot be
kept by any one, thou shalt not
fulfil them.
16 But now I say unto thee, if
* That the words here inserted, and removed into their proper place in the
foregoing Command, do not belong to this Discourse, the Greek of
Athanasius, in which they are all omitted, clearly shews.
223
Believers not to
thou shalt not observe these com
mands, but shall neglect them,
thou shalt not be saved, nor thy
children, nor thy house; because
thou hast judged that these com
mands cannot be kept by man.
17 T These things he spake
very angrily unto me, insomuch
that he greatly affrighted me,
For he changed his countenance,
so that a man could not bear his
anger.
18 And when he saw me alto
gether troubled and confounded,
he began to speak more moderate
ly and cheerfully, saying, O fool
ish, and without understanding !
19 Unconstant, not knowing
the majesty of God how great
and wonderful he is ; who created
the world for man, and hath made
every creature subject unto him :
and given him all power, that he
should be able to * fulfil all these
commands.
20 He is able, said he, to *ful
fil all these commands, who has
the Lord in his heart: but they
who have the Lord only in their
mouths, and their heart is har
dened, and they are far from the
Lord ; to such persons these com
mands are hard and difficult.
21 Put therefore, ye that are
empty and light in the faith, the
Lord your God in your hearts;
and ye shall perceive how that
nothing is more easy than these
commands, nor more pleasant, nor
more gentle and holy.
22 And turn yourselves to the
Lord your God, and forsake the
devil and his pleasures, because
they are evil, and bitter, and im
pure. And fear not the devil,
because he has no power over
Oll.
23 For I am with you, the
messenger of repentance, who
1 Ut dominetur. * Angel. "Gr.
Matt. xxiv. 42.
II. HERMAS. fear the devil,
have the dominion over him. The
devil doth indeed affiright men;
but his terror is vain. Where
fore fear him not, and he will flee
from you.
24 And I said unto him; Sir,
hear me speak a few words unto
you. He answered, Say on : A
man indeed desires to keep the
commandments of God : and there
is no one but what prays unto God,
that he may be able to keep his
commandments.
25 But the devil is hard, and
by his power rules over the ser
vants of God. And he said He
cannot rule over the servants of
God, * who trust in him with all
their hearts.
26 The devil may strive, but
he cannot overcome them.
27 For if ye resist him, he will
flee away with confusion from
you. But they that are not full in
the faith, fear the devil, as if he
had some great power. For the
devil tries the servants of God
and if he finds them empty, he
destroys them.
28 For as man, when he fills
up vessels with good wine, * and
among them puts a few vessels
half full, and comes to try and
taste of the vessels, doth not try
those that are full, because he
knows that they are good; but
tastes those that are half full, lest
they should grow sour; (for ves
sels half full soon grow sour, and
lose the taste of wine :) so the de
vil comes to the servants of God
to try them,
29 They that are full of faith
resist him stoutly, and he departs
from them, because he finds no
place where to enter into them :
then he goes to those that are not
full of faith, and because he has
place of entrance, he goes into
eXırıſovrov sus 'Avrov. “Origen. in
224
but turn to
them, and does what he will with
them, and they become his ser
wants.
30 T But I, the messenger of
repentance, say unto you, fear not
the devil, for I am sent unto you,
that I may be with you, as many
as shall repent with your whole
heart, and that I may confirm you
in the faith.
31 * Believe therefore, ye who
by reason of your transgressions
have “forgot God, and your own
salvation; and “adding to your
sins have made your life very
heavy.
32 That if ye shall turn to the
Lord with your whole hearts, and
shall serve him according to his
will; he will heal you of your
former sins, and ye shall have do
minion over all the works of the
devil.
33 Be not then afraid in the
least of his threatenings, for they
COMMAND XII. the Lord.
are without force, as the nerves
of a dead man. But hearken unto
me, and fear the Lord Almighty,
who is able to save and to destroy
you; and keep his commands, that
ye may live unto God.
34 And I said unto him; Sir,
I am now confirmed in all the
commands of the Lord whilst that
you are with me, and I know that
you will break all the power of the
devil.
35 And we also shall overcome
him, if we shall be able, through
the help of the Lord, to keep these
commands which you have deli
vered.
36 Thou shalt keep them, said
he, if thou shalt purify thy heart
towards the Lord. And all they
also shall keep them who shall
cleanse their hearts from the vain
desires of the present world, and
shall live unto God.
The Third Book of HERMAS, which is called his SIMILI
TUDES.
SIMILITUDE I.
That seeing we have no abiding city
in this world, we ought to look after
that which is to come.
ND he said unto me; * Ye
know that ye who are the
servants of the Lord, live here as
in a pilgrimage; for your city is
far off from this city.
2 If, therefore, ye know your
city in which ye are to dwell, why
do ye here buy estates, and pro
vide yourselves with delicacies,
and stately buildings, and super
fluous houses? For he that pro
vides himself these things in this
city, does not think of returning
into his own city.
* Angel
Deum, et salutem vestram.
* Wid. Antioch. Hom. lxxvii.
3 O foolish, and doubtful, and
wretched man; who understandest
not that all these things belong
to other men, and are under the
power of another. For the Lord
of this city saith unto thee; Either
obey my laws, or depart out of my
city.
4 What therefore shalt thou do
who art subject to a law in thine
own city? Canst thou for thy es
tate, or for any of those things
which thou hast provided, deny
thy law But if thou shalt deny
it, and wilt afterwards return into
thy own city, thou shalt not be
received, but shall be excluded
thence.
5 See therefore, that like a man
*MS. Lamb. Qui obliti estis
*What follows should be corrected thus; Et
qui adjicientes peccatis vestris, gravatis vitam vestram. * Antioch. Hom. Kv
29 225
Of the world to come.
in another country, thou procure
no more to thyself than what is
necessary, and sufficient for thee!
and be ready, that when the God
or Lord of this city shall drive
thee out of it, thou mayst oppose
his law, and go into thine own
city; where thou mayst with all
cheerfulness live according to
thine own law with no wrong.
6 Take heed therefore ye that
serve God, and have him in your
hearts: work ye the works of
God, being mindful both of his
commands and of his promises,
which he has promised; and be
assured that he will make them
good unto you; if ye shall keep
his commandments.
7 Instead therefore of the pos
sessions that ye would otherwise
purchase, redeem those that are
in want from their necessities, as
every one is able; justify the
widows; judge the cause of the
fatherless; and spend your riches
and your wealth in such works as
these.
8 For, for this end has God en
riched you, that ye might fulfil
these kind of services. It is much
better to do this, than to buy lands
or houses; because all such things
shall perish with this present time.
9 lbut what ye shall do for the
name of the Lord, ye shall find in
your city, and shall have joy with
out sadness or fear. Wherefore
covet not the riches of the heathen ;
3or they are destructive to the ser
wants of God.
10 *But trade with your own
riches which youpossess, by which
ye may attain unto everlasting
joy.
11 And do not commit adul
tery, nor touch any other man's
wife, nor desire her; but covet
* Souls.
Origen. in Jos. Hom. x.
III. HERMAS.
*MS. Lambeth. Proprias, autem quas habetis agite.
The rich helped by
that which is thy own business,
and thou shalt be saved.
SIMILITUDE II.
As the vine is supported by the elm,
so is the rich man helped by the
prayers of the poor.
S I was walking into the
field, and considered the elm
and the vine, and thought with
myself of their fruits, an angel
appeared unto me, and said unto
me; What is it that thou thinkest
upon thus long within thyself?
2 And I said unto him, Sir, I
think of this vine and this elm
because their fruits are fair. And
he said unto me; *These two
trees are set for a pattern to the
servants of God.
3 And I said unto him, Sir, I
would know in what the pattern
of these trees which thou mention
est, does consist. Hearken, saith
he ; seest thou this vine and this
elm ; Sir, said I, I see them.
4 This vine, saith he, is fruit
ful, but the elm is a tree without
fruit. Nevertheless this vine un
less it were set by this elm, and
supported by it, would not bear
much fruit; but lying along upon
the ground, would bear but ill
fruit, because it did not hang up
on the elm ; whereas, being,
supported upon the elm, it bears
fruit both for itself and for that.
5 See, therefore, how the elm
gives no less, but rather more
fruit, than the vine. How, Sir,
said I, does it bear more fruit
than the vine ! Because, said he,
the vine being supported upon
the elm gives both much and good
fruit; whereas, if it lay along
upon the ground, it would bear
but little, and that very ill too.
6 This similitude, therefore, is
set forth to the servants of God;
3 Wid.
226
the prayers of the poor SIMILITUDE IV. Of green and dry leaves.
and it represents the rich and poor
man. I answered, Sir, make this
manifest unto me. Hear, said he ;
the rich man has wealth; howbeit
towards the Lord he is poor; for
be is taken up about his riches,
and prays but little to the Lord;
and the prayers which he makes
are lazy and without force.
7 When, therefore, the rich
man reaches out to the poor those
things which he wants, the poor
man prays unto the Lord for the
rich; and God grants unto the
rich man all good things, because
the poor man is rich in prayer;
and his requests have great power
with the Lord.
8 Then the rich man ministers
all things to the poor, because he
perceives that he is heard by the
Lord ; and he the more willingly
and without doubting, affords him
what he wants, and takes care that
nothing be lacking to him.
9 And the poor man gives
thanks unto the Lord for the rich;
because they do both their work
from the Lord.
10 With men, therefore the
elm is not thought to give any
fruit; and they know not, neither
understand that its company being
added to the vine, the vine bears a
double increase, both for itself and
for the elm.
11 Even so the poor praying
unto the Lord for the rich, are
heard by him; and their riches
are increased, because they minis
ter to the poor of their wealth.
They are therefore both made par
takers of each other's good works.
12 Whosoever, therefore, shall
do these things, he shall not be
forsaken by the Lord, but shall be
written in the book of life.
13 Happy are they who are
rich, and perceive themselves to be
increased : for he that is sensible
of this, will be able to minister
somewhat to others.
SIMILITUDE III.
As the green trees in the winter cannot
be distinguished from the dry; go
neither can the righteous from the
wicked in this present world.
GAIN he showed me many
trees whose leaves were shed,
and which seemed to me to be
withered, for they were all alike.
And he said unto me, Seest thou
these trees? I said, Sir, I see that
they look like dry trees.
2 He answering, said unto me;
These trees are like unto the men
who live in the present world. I
replied: Sir, why are they like
unto dried trees? Because, said
he, neither the righteous, nor un
righteous, are known from one
another; but all are alike in this
present world.
3 For this world is as the winter
to the righteous men, "because
they are not known, but dwell
among sinners.
4 As in the winter all the trees
having lost their leaves, are like
dry trees; nor can it be discerned
which are dry and which are green:
so in this present world neither
the righteous, nor wicked are dis
cerned from each other; but they
are all alike.
SIMILITUDE IV.
As in the summer the living trees are
distinguished from the dry by their
fruit and green leaves; so in the
world to come the righteous shall be
distinguished from the unrighteous by
their happiness.
GAIN he showed me many
other trees, of which some
had leaves, and others appeared
dry and withered. And he said
unto me, Seest thou these trees?
I answered, Sir, I see them; and
some are dry, and others full of
* Distracted.
leaves.
* Who are.
227
Of believers' fruits.
2 These trees, saith he, which
are green, are the righteous which
shall possess the world to come.
For the world to come, is the sum
mer to the righteous ; but to sin
ners it is the winter.
3 When, therefore, the mercy
of the Lord shall shine forth, then
they who serve God shall be made
manifest, and plain unto all. For
as in the summer the fruit of every
tree is shown and made manifest,
so also the works of the righteous
shall be declared and made mani
fest, and they shall all be restored
in that world merry and joyful.
4 For the other 1 kind of men,
namely the wicked, like the trees
which thou sawest dry, shall as
such be found dry and without
fruit in that other world; and like
dry wood shall be burnt; and it
shall be made manifest that they
have done evil all the time of their
life;
5 And they shall be burnt be
cause they have sinned and have
not repented of their sins. And
also all the other nations shall be
burnt, because they have not ac
knowledged God their Creator.
6 Do thou, therefore, bringforth
good fruit, that in the summer thy
fruit may be known; and keep
thyself from much business, and
thou shalt not offend. For they
who are involved in much busi
ness, sin much ; because they are
taken up with their affairs, and
serve not God.
7 And how can a man that does
not serve God, ask any thing of
God, and receive it ! But they
who serve him, ask and receive
what they desire.
8 But, if a man has only one
thing to follow, he may serve God,
because his mind is not taken off
* Nations. * With me.
teler, ibid. "Jejuna certe verun jejunium tale.
III. HERMAS.
*Wid, not. Coteler. in loc. pp. 72, 73.
Of a true fast
from God, but he serves him with
a pure mind.
9 If therefore, thou shalt do
this, thou mayest have fruit in the
world to come ; and all, as many
as shall do in like manner, shall
bring forth fruit.
SIMILITUDE W.
Of a truefast, and the rewards of it, also
of the cleanliness of the body.
S I was fasting, and sitting
down in a certain mountain,
and giving thanks unto God for all
the things that he had done * unto
me; behold I saw the shepherd,
who was wont to converse with
me, sitting by me, and saying
unto me: What has brought thee
hither thus early in the morning 1
I answered, Sir, to-day, I keep a
* station.
2 He answered, What is a sta
tion ? I replied, it is a fast ! He
said, What is that fast ! I answer
ed, I fast, as I have been wont to
do. Ye know not, said he, what
it is to fast unto God; nor is this
a fast which ye fast, profiting no
thing with God.
3 Sir, said I, what makes you
speak thus? He replied, I speak
it, because this is not the true fast
which you think that you fast ;
but I will show you what that is
which is a “complete fast, and
acceptable unto God.
4 Hearken, said he, The Lord
does not desire such a needless
fast: for by fasting in this man
ner, thou advancest nothing in
righteousness.
5 * But the true fast is this: Do
nothing wickedly in thy life, but
serve God with a pure mind; and
keep his commandments and walk
according to his precepts, nor suf.
fer any wicked desire to enter
into the mind.
* Co
Lat.
228
and the
6 But trust in the Lord, that if
thou dost these things, and fearest
him, and abstaineth from every
evil work, thou shalt live unto
God.
7 If thou shalt do this, thou
shalt perfect a great fast, and an
acceptable one unto the Lord.
8 * Hearken unto the simili
tude which I am about to propose
unto thee, as to this matter.
9 A certain man havinga farm,
and many servants, planted a
vineyard in a certain part of his
estate for his posterity: -
10 And taking a journey into a
far country, chose one of his ser
vants which he thought the most
faithful and approved, and deli
vered the vine yard into his care;
commanding him that he should
take up the vines. Which if he
did, and fulfilled his command, he
promised to give him his liberty.
Nor did he command him to do
any thing more; and so went into
a far country.
11 And after that servant had
taken that charge upon him, he
did whatsoever his lord command
ed him. And when he had staked
the vineyard, and found it to be
full of weeds, he began to think
with himself, saying;
12 I have done what my lord
commanded me, I will now dig
this vineyard, and when it is dig
ged, it will be more beautiful;
and the weeds being pulled up,
it will bring forth more fruit and
not be choked by the weeds.
13 So setting about this work
he digged it, and plucked up all the
weeds that were in it ; and so the
vineyard became very beautiful
and prosperous, not being choked
with weeds.
14 After some time the lord of
the vineyard comes and goes into
SIMILITUDE W. rewards of it
the vineyard, and when he saw
that it was handsomely staked and
digged, and the weeds plucked up
that were in it, and the vines
flourishing, he rejoiced greatly at
the care of his servant.
15 And calling his son whom
he loved, and who was to be his
heir, and his friends with whom
he was wont to consult; he tells
them what he had commanded his
servant to do, and what his ser
vant had done more; and they im
mediately congratulated that ser.
vant, that he had received so 1 full
a testimony from his lord.
16 Then he said to them, I
indeed promised this servant his
liberty, if he observed the com
mand which I gave him; and he
observed it, and besides has done
a good work to my vineyard,
which has exceedingly pleased
Ino.
17 Wherefore, for this work
which he hath done, I will make
him my heir together with my son,
because that when he saw what
was good, he neglected it not, but
did it.
18 This design of the lord both
his son and his friends approved,
namely, that his servant should be
heir together with his son.
19 Not long after this, the mas
ter of the family calling together
his friends, sent from his supper
several kinds of food to that ser
Vant.
20 Which when he had receiv.
ed, he took so much of them as
was sufficient for himself, and di
vided the rest among his fellow
servants.
21 Which when they had re
ceived, they rejoiced ; and wished
that he might find yet greater fa
vour with his lord, for what he
had done to them.
*Just a commendation.
229
Of a true fast,
22 When his lord heard all
these things, he was again filled
with great joy; and calling again
his friends and his son together,
he related to them what his ser
vant had done with the meats
which he had sent unto them.
23 They therefore so much the
more assented to the master of the
household ; and he ought to make
that servant his heir together with
his son.
24 Mſ I said unto him, Sir, I
know not these similitudes, nei
ther can I understand them, unless
you expound them unto me. I
will, says he, expound all things
unto thee whatsoever I have talk
ed with thee, or shewn unto thee.
25 Keep the commandments of
the Lord and thou shalt be ap
proved, and shalt be written in
the number of those that keep his
commandments. But if besides
those things which the Lord hath
commanded, thou shalt add some
good thing; thou shalt purchase
to thyself a greater dignity, and
be in more favour with the Lord
than thou shouldst otherwise have
been.
26 If therefore thou shalt keep
the commandments of the Lord,
and shalt add to them these sta
tions, thou shalt rejoice; but espe
cially if thou shalt keep them ac
cording to my commands.
27 I said unto him, Sir, what
soever thou shalt command me, I
will observe; for I know that thou
wilt be with me. I will, said he,
be with thee who hast taken up
such a resolution; and I will be
with all those who purpose in like
Inanner.
28 This fast, saith he, whilst
thou dost also observe the com
mandments of the Lord, is ex
* Shameful; or, upbraiding.
III. HERMAS. and its rewards,
ceeding good. Thus shalt there
fore thou keep it.
29 First of all, take heed to
thyself, and keep thyself from
every 1 wicked act, and from every
filthy word, and from every hurt
ful desire; and purify thy mind
from all the vanity of this present
world. If thou shalt observe these
things, this fast shall be right.
30 Thus therefore do. Having
performed what is before written,
that day on which thou fastest
thou shalt taste nothing at all but
*bread and water; * and com
puting the quantity of food which
thou art wont to eat upon other
days, thou shalt “lay aside the
expense which thou shouldest
have made that day, and give it
unto the widow, the fatherless, and
the poor.
31 “And thus thou shalt per
fect the humiliation of thy soul;
that he who receives of it may sa
tisfy his soul, and his prayer come
up to the Lord God for thee.
32 If therefore thou shalt thus
accomplish thy fast, as I command
thee, thy sacrifice shall be accept
able unto the Lord, and thy fast
shall be written in his book.
33 This station, thus perform
ed, is good and pleasing and ac
ceptable unto the Lord. These
things if thou shalt observe with
thy children and with all thy
house, thou shalt be happy.
34 And whosoever, when they
hear these things, shall do them,
they also shall be happy ; and
whatsoever they shall ask of the
Lord they shall receive it.
35 And I prayed him that he
would expound unto me the simi
litude of the farm, and the Lord,
and of the vineyard, and of the
servant that had staked the vine,
*Wid. Not. Coteler. ii. p. 74. A.B.C.
* Wid. Antioch. Hom. vii.
230
and of cleanliness
yard; and of the weeds that were
plucked out of the vineyard; and
of his son and his friends which
he took into council with him.
For I understand that that was a
similitude.
36 He said unto me, Thou art
very bold in asking: for thou
oughtest not to ask any thing;
because if it be fitting to show it
unto thee, it shall be showed unto
thee.
37 I answered him; Sir, what
soever thou shalt shew me, with
out explaining it unto me, I shall
in vain see it, if I do not under
stand what it is. And if thou
shalt propose any similitudes, and
not expound them, Ishall in vain
hear them.
38 He answered me again,
saying: Whosoever is the servant
of God, and has the Lord in his
heart, he desires understanding
of him, and receives it ; and he
explains every similitude, and un
derstands the words of the Lord
which need an inquiry.
39 But they that are lazy and
slow to pray, doubt to seek from
the Lord : although the Lord be
of such an extraordinary good
ness, that without ceasing he giv
eth all things to them that ask of
him.
40 Thou therefore who art
strengthened by that venerable
messenger, and hast received such
a powerful gift of prayer; seeing
thou art not slothful, why dost
thou not now ask understanding
of the Lord, and receive it !
41 I said unto him ; seeing I
have thee present, it is necessary
that I should seek it of thee, and
ask thee; for thou showest all
things unto me, and speakest to
me when thou art present.
42 But if I should see or hear
SIMILITUDE W. of the body.
these things when thou wert not
present, I would then ask the Lord
that he would shew them unto
Ine.
43'ſ And he replied, I said a
little before that thou wert subtle
and bold, in that thou asketh the
meaning of these similitudes.
44 But because thou still per
sistest, I will unfold to thee this
parable which thou desirest, that
thou mayest make it known unto
all men.
45 Heartherefore, said he, and
understand. The farm before men
tioned denotes the whole earth.
The Lord of the farm is he who
created and finished all things;
and gave virtue unto them.
46 His son is the Holy Spirit:
the servant is the Son of God:
the vineyard is the people whom
he saves. The stakes are the "mes
sengers which are set over them
by the Lord, to support his people.
The weeds that are plucked up
out of the vineyard, are the sins
which the servants of God had
committed.
47 The food which he sent him
from his supper, arethe commands
which he gave to his people by
his Son. The friends whom he
called to counsel with him, are
the holy angels whom he first
created. The absence of the mas
ter of the household, is the time
that remains unto his coming.
48 I said unto him, Sir, all
these things are very excellent,
and wonderful, and good. But,
continued I, could I or any other
man besides though never so wise,
have understood these things?
49 Wherefore now, sir, tell me,
what I ask. He replied, ask me
what thou wilt. Why, said I, is
the Son of God in this parable, put
in the place of a servant?
*Angels.
23]
Of cleanliness
50 Hearken, he said; the Son
of God is not put in the condi
tion of a servant, but in great
ower and authority. I said unto
im, how, sir? I understand it
not.
51 Because, said he, the Son
set his 1 messengers over those
whom the father delivered unto
him, to keep every one of them ;
buthe himself laboured very much,
and suffered much, that he might
blot out their offences.
52 For no vineyard can be dig
ged without much labour and
pains. Wherefore having blotted
out the sins of his people, he
shewed to them the paths of life,
giving them the law which he had
received of the Father.
53 You see, said he, that he is
the Lord of his people, having re
ceived all power from his Father.
* But why the Lord did take his
son into counsel, about dividing
the inheritance, and the good an
gels, hear now.
54 That 8 Holy Spirit, which
was created first of all, he placed
in the body in which God should
dwell; namely, in a chosen body,
as it seemed good to him. This
body therefore into which the
* Holy Spirit was brought, served
that spirit, walked rightly and
purely in modesty; nor ever de
filed that Spirit.
55 Seeing therefore the body
at all times obeyed the Holy
Spirit, and laboured rightly and
chastely with him, nor faltered at
any time; that body being wea
ried conversed indeed servilely,
but being mightily approved to
III. HERMAS. of the body.
God with the Holy Spirit, was ac
cepted by him.
56 For such a stout course
pleased God, because he was not
defiled in the earth, keeping the
Holy Spirit. He called therefore
to counsel his Son, and the good
angels, that there might be some
place of standing given to this
body which had served the Holy
Spirit without blame; lest it
should seem to have lost the re
ward of its service.
57 For every pure body shall
receive its reward ; that is found
without spot, in which the Holy
Spirit has been appointed to
dwell. And thus you have now
the exposition of this parable
also.
58 Sir, said I, I now under
stand your meaning, since I have
heard this exposition. Hearken
further, said he: keep this thy body
clean and pure, that the Spirit
which shall dwell in it may bear
witness unto it, and be judged to
have been with thee.
59 Also take heed that it be
not instilled into thy mind that
this body perishes, and thou abuse
it to any lust. For if thou shalt
defile thy body, thou shalt also at
the same time defile the Holy
Spirit; and if thou shalt defile
* the Holy Spirit, thou shalt not
live.
60 And I said, What if through
ignorance this should have been
already committed, before a man
heard these words ; How can he
attain unto salvation, who has
thus defiled his body ?
61 He replied, As for men's
* Angels. *This place, which in all the editions of Hermasis wretchedly
corrupted, by the collation of editions and MSS. is thus corrected by Dr.
Grabe: “Quaere autem Dominus in concilio adhibuerit, filium de haerivifate,
honestosque nuncios, audi; Spiritum Sanctum, qui creatus est omnium pri
mus, in corpore, in quo habitaret Deus, collocavit; in delecto scilicet cor
pore quod ei videbatur.” * Viz. the created Spirit of Christ, as man; not
the Holy Ghost, the Third Person of the Sacred Trinity. “Thy body, ac
cording to some copies.
232
Of two sorts of
former actions which through ig
norance they have committed, God
only can afford a remedy unto
them; for all the power belongeth
unto him.
62 But now guard thyself; and
seeing God is almighty and mer
ciful, he will grant a remedy to
whatthouhast formerly doneamiss,
if for the time to come thou shalt
not defile thy body and spirit :
63 For they are companions
together, and the one cannot be
defiled but the other will be so
too. Keep therefore both of them
pure, and thou shalt live unto God.
SIMILITUDE.
Of two sorts of voluptuous men, and of
their death, defection, and of the con
tinuance of their pains.
S I was sitting at home, and
praising God for all the
things which I had seen; and
was thinking concerning the com
mands, that they were exceeding
good, and great, and honest, and
pleasant; and such as were able
to bring a man to salvation ; I
said thus within myself; I shall
be happy if I shall walk according
to these commands, and whoso
ever shall walk in them shall live
unto God.
2. Whilst I was speaking on
this wise within myself, I saw him
whom I had before been wont to
see, sitting by me; and he spake
thus unto me:
3 What doubtest thou con
cerning my commands which I
have delivered unto thee? They
are good, doubt not, but trust in
the Lord, and thou shalt walk in
them. For I will give thee strength
* to fulfil them.
4 These commands are profit
able to those who shall repent of
those sins which they have for
SIMILITUDE WI.
* In them. *Wid. Annot.
voluptuous men.
merly committed; if for the time
to come they shall not continue
in them.
5 Whosoever therefore ye be
that repent, cast away from you
the naughtiness of the present
world; and put on all virtue, and
righteousness, and so shall ye be
able to keep these commands;
and not sin from henceforth any
InOre.
6 For if ye shall keep your
selves from sin from the time to
come, ye shall cut off a great deal
of your former sins. Walk in my
commands, and ye shall live unto
God: These things have I spoken
unto you.
7 And when he had said this,
he added ; let us go into the field,
and I will show thee shepherds of
sheep. I replied, sir, let us go.
8 And we came into a certain
field, and there he showed me a
young shepherd, *finely arrayed,
with his garments of a purple
colour. And he fed large flocks;
and his sheep were full of pleasure,
and in much delight and cheer
fulness; and they skipping, ran
here and there.
9 And the shepherd took very
great satisfaction in his flock; and
the countenance of that shepherd
was cheerful, running up anddown
among his flock.
10 * Then the angel said unto
me, Seest thou this shepherd 1
answered, Sir, I see him. He said
unto me, this is the *messenger
of delight and pleasure. He there
fore corrupts the minds of the
servants of God, and turns them
from the truth, delighting them
with many pleasures, and they
perish.
11 For they forget the com
mands of the living God, and live
in luxury and in vain pleasures,
Coteler in loc. *Angel.
30 233
Of two sorts of
and are corrupted by the evil
angel, some of them even unto
death; and others to "a falling
away.
12 I replied; I understand not
what you mean, by saying unto
death, and to a falling away.
Hear, says he ; all those sheep
which thou sawest exceeding *joy
‘ui, are such as have for ever de
parted from God, and given them
selves up to the "lusts of this pre
sent time.
13 To these therefore there is
no return, by repentance unto
life; because that to their other
sins they have added this, that
they have blasphemed the name
of the Lord. These kind of men
are ordained unto death.
14 But those sheep which thou
sawest not leaping, but feeding in
one place, are such as have in
deed given themselves up to plea
sure and delights; but have not
spoken anything wickedly against
the Lord.
15 These therefore are only
fallen off from the truth, and so
have yet hope laid up for them in
repentance. For such a falling
off hath some hope still left of a
renewal; but they that are dead,
are utterly gone for ever.
16 Again we went a little far
ther forward ; and he showed me
a great “shepherd, who had as it
were a rustic figure, clad with a
white goat's skin, having his bag
upon his shoulder, and in his hand
a stick full of knots, and very hard,
and a whip in his other hand; and
his countenance was stern and
sour; enough to affiright a man;
such was his look.
17 He took trom that young
shepherd such sheep as lived in
pleasures, but did not skip up and
*Ad, defectionem. Lat.
re Autovë rere. *Agrestem Lat.
Hom. l.
&c. et sic MS. Lamb.
III. HERMAS.
* Exultantia. Lat.
voluptuous men.
down; and drove them into a
certain steep craggy place full of
thorns and briars, insomuch that
they could not get themselves free
from them :
18 But being entangled in
them, fed upon thorns and briars,
and were greviously tormented
with his whipping. For he still
drove them on, and afforded them
not any place, or time, to stand
still.
19 ºſſ When therefore I saw
them so cruelly whipped and
afflicted, I was grieved for them;
because they were greatly tor
mented, nor had they any rest af.
forded them.
20 And I said unto the shep
herd that was with me; Sir, who
is this cruel and implacable shep
herd, who is moved with no com
passion towards these sheep? He
answered, "This shepherd is in
deed one of the "holy angels, but
is appointed for the punishment
of sinners.
21 To him thereiore are deli
vered those who have erred from.
God, and served the lusts and
pleasures of this world. For this
cause he punishes them every one
according to their deserts, with
cruel and various kinds of pains.
22 Sir, said I, I would know,
what kind of pains they are which
every one undergoes | Hearken,
said he ; The several pains and
torments are those which men
every day undergo in their pre
sent lives. For some suffer losses,
others poverty; others divers sick
nesses. Some are unsettled ; others
suffer injuries from those that are
unworthy; others fall under many
other trials and inconveniences.
23 For many with an unsettled
design aim at many things, and it
* In Gr. Athanas entëupuals
*Wid. Origen. in Psalm xxxvi.
"Righteous. In Gr, Athanas. ex row AyyeXav raw öukauov sort,
234
and of their death
profiteth them not; and they say
that they have not success in their
findertakings.
24 They do not call to their
mind what they have done amiss,
and they complain of the Lord.
When therefore they shall have
undergone all kind of vexation and
inconvenience ; then they are de
livered over to me for good in
struction, and are confirmed in the
Faith of the Lord, and serve the
Lord all the rest of their days with
a pure mind.
25 And when they begin to re
pent of their sins, then they call
to mind their works which they
have done amiss, and give honour
to God, saying, That he is a just
Judge, and they have deservedly
suffered all things according to
their deeds.
26 Then for what remains of
their lives, they serve God with a
pure mind; and have success in
all their undertakings, and receive
rorom the Lord whatever they de
glre.
27 And then they give thanks
unto the Lord that they were de
livered unto me; nor do they
suffer any more cruelty.
28 "I I said unto him; Sir, I
intreat you still to show me now
one thing. What, said he, dost
thou ? ask? I said unto him ; Are
they who depart from the fear of
God, tormented for the same time
that they enjoyed their false de
light and pleasures? He answered
me: They are tormented for the
same time.
29 And Isaid unto him; They
are then tormented but little ;
whereas they who enjoy their
pleasures so as to forget God,
ought to endure seven times as
much punishment.
30 He answered me; Thou art
* MS. Lamb. Succurritiis; Gr. Athanas sywookeori.
- * Origen. in Num. Hom. viii.
quiris.
SIMILITUDE WI. and defection.
foolish, neither understandestthou
the efficacy of this punishment.
I said unto him ; Sir, if I under
stood it, I would not desire you to
tell me.
31 Hearken, said he, and learn
what the force of both is, both of
the pleasure and of the punish
ment. An hour of pleasure is
terminated within its own space:
but one hour of punishment has
the efficacy of thirty days. & Who
soever therefore enjoys his false
pleasure for one day, and is one
day tormented ; that one day of
punishment is equivalent to a
whole year's space.
32 Thus look how many days
any one pursues his pleasures, so
many years is he punished for it.
You see therefore how that the
time of worldly enjoyments is but
short ; but that of pain and tor
ments a great deal more.
33 I replied; Sir, forasmuch as
I do not understand 4 at all these
times of pleasure and pain; I in
treat you that you would explain
yourself more clearly concerning
them. He answered me, saying;
Thy foolishness still sticks unto
thee.
34 Shouldst thou not rather
purify thy mind, and serve God?
Take heed, lest when thy time is
fulfilled, thou be found still un
wise. Hear then, as thou desirest,
that thou mayest the more easily
understand.
35 He that gives himself up
one day to his pleasures and de
lights, and does whatsoever his
soul desires, is full of great folly,
nor understands what he does,
but the day following forgets what
he did the day before.
36 For delight and worldly
pleasure are not kept in memory,
by reason of the folly that is rooted
* MS. Lamb. In
* MS. Lamb. Omnino.
235
Of voluptuous men.
h them. But when pain and tor
ment befal a man a day, he is in
effect troubled the wholeyearafter;
because his punishment continues
firm in his memory.
37 Wherefore he remembers it
with sorrow the whole year; and
then calls to mind his vain plea
sure and delight, and perceives
that for the sake of that he was
punished.
38 Whosoever therefore have
delivered themselves over to such
pleasures, are thus punished; be
cause that when they had life,
they rendered themselves liable to
death.
39 I said unto him ; Sir, what
pleasures are hurtful ? He an
swered; That is pleasure to every
man which he doth willingly.
40 For the angry man, gratify.
ing his passion, perceives pleasure
in it ; and so the adulterer, and
drunkard; the slanderer and liar;
the covetous man and the de
frauder; and whosoever commits
anything like unto these, because
he followeth his evil disposition,
he receives a satisfaction in the
doing of it.
41 All these pleasures and de
lights are hurtful to the servants of
God. For these therefore they are
tormented and suffer punishment.
42 There are also pleasures that
bring salvation unto men. For
many, when they do what is good,
find pleasure in it, and are attract
ed by the delights of it.
43 Now this pleasure is profit
able to the servants of God, and
brings life to such men; but those
hurtful pleasures, which were be
fore mentioned, bring torments
and punishment.
44 And whosoever shall con
tinue in them, and shall not re
pent of what they have done, shall
bring death upon themselves.
* Obeyeth his disease.
III. HERMAS. The repentant must
SIMILITUDE VII.
That they who repent, must bring forth
fruits worthy of repentance.
FTER a few days I saw the
same person that before talk.
ed with me, in the same field, in
which I had seen those shepherds.
And he said unto me; What seek.
est thou?
2 Sir, said I, I came to entreat
you that you would command the
shepherd, who is the minister of
punishment, to depart out of my
house, because he greatly afflicts
Ine.
3 And he answered, It is neces
sary for thee to endure incon
veniencies and vexations; for so
that good angel hath commanded
concerning thee, because he would
try thee.
4 Sir, said I; What so great
offence have I committed, that I
should be delivered to this * mes
senger ? Hearken, said he . Thou
art indeed guilty of many sins, yet
not so many that thou shouldest
be delivered to this *messenger.
5 But thy house hath com
mitted many sins and offences,
and therefore that good * mes
senger being grieved at their do
ingscommanded that for some time
thou shouldst suffer affliction ;
that they may both repent of
what they have done, and may
wash themselves from all the lusts
of this present world.
6 When therefore they shall
have repented, and be purified,
then that messenger which is ap
pointed over thy punishment, shall
depart from thee.
7 I said unto him; Sir, if they
have behaved themselves so as to
anger that good angel, yet what
have I done? He answered: They
cannot otherwise be afflicted, un
less thou, who art the head of the
family, suffer.
*Angel.
236
bring forth fruits.
8 For whatsoever thou shalt
suffer, they must needs feel it :
but as long as thou shalt stand
well established, they cannot ex
perience any vexation.
9 I replied; But, sir, behold
they also now repent with all their
hearts. I know, says he, that they
repent with all their hearts; but
dost thou therefore think that
their offences who repent are im
mediately blotted out !
10 No, they are not presently;
but he that repents must afflict
his soul and shew himself humble
inall his affairs, and undergo many
and divers vexations.
11 And when he shall have
suffered all things that were ap
pointed for him ; then perhaps he
that made him, and formed all
things besides, will be moved with
compassion towardshim,and afford
him some remedy; and especially
if he shall perceive his heart, who
Fepents, to be pure from every evil
work.
12 But at present it is expe
dient for thee, and for thy house,
to be grieved; and it is needful
that thou shouldest endure much
vexation, as the angel of the Lord
who committed thee unto me, has
commanded.
13 Rather give thanks unto the
Lord, that knowing what was to
come, he thought thee worthy to
whom he should fortel that trou
ble was coming upon thee, who
art able to bear it.
14 I said unto him ; Sir, be
but thou also with me, and I shall
easily undergo any trouble. I
will, said he, be with thee; and I
will intreat the messenger who is
set over thy punishment, that he
would moderate his afflictions to
wards thee.
15 And moreover thou shalt
suffer adversity but for a little
time ; and then thou shalt again
S1MILITUDE WILL Of the elect,
be restored to thy former state;
only continue on in the humility
of thy mind.
16 Obey the Lord with a pure
heart ; thou, and thy house, and
thy children; and walk in the
commands which I have delivered
unto thee; and then thy repen.
tance may be firm and pure.
17 And if thou shalt keep these
things with thy house, thy incon
veniences shall depart from thee.
18 And all vexation shall in
like manner depart from all those,
whosoever shall walk according to
these commands.
SIMILITUDE VIII.
That there are many kinds of elect, and
of repenting sinners ; and how all of
them shall receive a reward propor
tionable to the measure of their re
pentance and good works.
GAIN he shewed me a willow
which covered the fields
and the mountains, under whose
shadow came all such as were
called by the name of the Lord.
2 And by that willow stood an
angel of the Lord very excellent
and lofty; and did cut down
boughs from that willow with a
great hook; and reached out to
the people that were under the
shadow of that willow little rods,
as it were about a foot long.
3 And when all of them had
taken them, he laid aside his
hook, and the tree continued en
tire, as I had before seen it. At
which I wondered, and mused
within myself.
4 Then that shepherd said unto
me; Forbear to wonder that that
tree continues whole, notwith
standing so many boughs have
been cut off from it, but stay a
little, for now it shall be shewn
thee, what that angel means, who
gave those rods to the people.
5 So he again demanded the
rods of them, and in the same
237
Of the elect
order that every one had received
them, was he called to him, and
restored his rod ; which when he
had received, he examined them.
6 From some he received them
dry and rotten, and as it were
touched with the moth ; those he
commanded to be separated from
the rest and placed by themselves.
Others gave in their rods dry in
deed, but not touched with the
moth: these also he ordered to be
set by themselves.
7 Others gave in their rods half
dry; these also were set apart.
Others gave in their rods half dry
and cleft; these too were set by
themselves. Others brought in
their rods half dry and half green,
and these were in like manner
olaced by themselves.
8 Others delivered up their rods
two parts green, and the third
dry; and they too were set apart.
Others brought their rods two
parts dry, and the third green;
and were also placed by them
selves.
9 Others delivered up their
rods less dry, (for there was but a
very little, to wit, their tops dry)
but they had clefts, and these were
set in like manner by themselves.
In the rods of others there was but
a little green, and the rest dry;
and these were set aside by them
selves.
10 Others came, and brought
their rods green as they had re
ceived them, and the greatest
part of the people brought their
rods thus; and the messenger
greatly rejoiced at these, and they
also were put apart by them
selves.
11 Others brought in their rods
not only green, but full of branch
es; and these were set aside,
being also received by the angel
with great joy. Others brought
their rods green with branches,
III. HERMAS. and the repentant,
and those also some fruit upon
them.
12 They who had such rods,
were very cheerful; and the an
gel himself took great joy at
them ; nor was the shepherd that
stood with me, less pleased with
them.
13 * Then the angel of the
Lord commanded crowns to be
brought : and the crowns were
brought made of palms; and the
angel crowned those men in whose
rods he found the young branches
with fruit; and commanded them
to go into the tower.
14 He also sent those into the
tower, in whose rods he found
branches without fruit, giving a
seal unto them. For they had the
same garment, that is, one white
as snow; with which he bade them
go into the tower. And so he did
to those who returned their rods
green as he had received them;
giving them a white garment, and
so sent them away to go into the
tower.
15 Having done this, he said to
the shepherd that was with me, I
go my way; but do thou send
these within the walls, every one
into the place in which he has de
served to dwell; examining first
their rods, but examine them dili
gently that no one deceive thee.
But and if any one shall escape
thee, I will try them upon the
altar. Having said this to the
shepherd, he departed.
16 After he was gone, the shep
herd said unto me; Let us take
the rods from them, and plant
them ; if perchance they may
grow green again. I said unto
him; Sir, how can those dry rods
ever grow green again
17 He answered me; That tree
is a willow, and always loves to
live. If therefore these rods shall
be planted, and receive a little
238
und of
moisture, many of them will re
cover themselves.
18 Wherefore I will try, and
will pour water upon them, and if
any of them can live, I will re
joice with him ; but if not, at least
by this means I shall be found not
to have neglected my part.
19 Then he commanded me to
sall them; and they all came
unto him, every one in the rank
in which he stood, and gave him
their rods; which having received,
he planted every one of them in
their several orders.
20 And after he had planted
them all, he poured much water
upon them, insomuch that they
were covered with water, and did
not appear above it. Then when
he had watered them, he said unto
me; Let us depart, and after a
little time we will return and visit
them.
21 For he who created this
tree, would have all those live that
received rods from it. And I hope
now that these rods are thus
watered, many of them receiving
in the moisture, will recover.
22 Mſ I said unto him, Sir, tell
me what this tree denotes? For I
am greatly "astonished, that after
so many branches have been cut
off, it seems still to be whole; nor
does there any thing the less of
it appear to remain, which greatly
8.In826S Ine.
23 Heanswered, Hearken. This
great tree which covers the plains
and the mountains, and all the
earth, is the law of God, published
throughout the whole world.
24 Now * this law is the Son
of God, who is preached to all the
ends of the earth. The people
that stand under its shadow, are
those which have heard hispreach
ing, and believed.
* Moved.
"Satisfied.
SIMILITUDE WIII. their rewards.
25 The great and venerable
angel which you saw, was Michael,
who has the power over his peo
ple, and governs them. For he
has planted the law in the hearts
of those who have believed : and
therefore he visits them to whom
he has given the law, to see if
they have kept it.
26 And he examines every one's
rod ; and of those, many that are
weakened: for those rods are the
law of the Lord. Then he dis
cerns all those who have not kept
the law, knowing the place of
every one of them.
27 I said unto him, Sir, why
did he send away some to the
tower, and left others here to you ?
He replied, those who have trans
gressed the law, which they re
ceived from him, are left in my
power, that they may repent of
their sins: but they who “fulfilled
the law and kept it, are under his
power.
28 But who then, said I, are
those, who went into the tower
crowned! He replied all such as
having striven with the devil, have
overcome him, are crowned: and
they are those, who have suffered
hard things, that they might keep
the law.
28 But they who gave up their
rods green, and with young
branches, but without fruit, have
indeed endured trouble for the
same law, but have not suffered
death; neither have they denied
their holy law.
30 They who delivered up their
rods green as they received them,
are those who were modest and
just, and have lived with a very
pure mind, and kept the command
ments of God.
31 The rest thou shalt know,
when I shall have considered those
* MS. Lamb. Haec autem lex Filins Dei est, praedicatus, &c.
239
of the elect
rods which I have planted and
watered.
32 TAfter a few days we re
turned, and in the same place
stood that glorious angel, and I
stood by him. Then he said unto
me; Gird thyself with a towel,
and serve me.
33 And I girded myself with
a clean towel, which was made of
coarse cloth. And when he saw
me girded, and ready to minister
unto him, he said, Call those men
whose rods have been planted,
every one in his order as he gave
them.
34 And he brought me into the
field, and I called them all, and
they all stood ready in their se
veral ranks. Then he said unto
them; let every one pluck up his
rod, and bring it unto me. And
first they delivered theirs, whose
rods had been dry and rotten.
35 And those whose rods still
continued so, he commanded to
stand apart. Then they came
whose rods had been dry but not
rotten. Some of these delivered
in their rods green ; others dry
and rotten, as if they had been
touched by the moth.
36 Those who gave them up
green, he commanded to stand
apart ; but those whose rods were
dry and rotten, he caused to stand
with the first sort. Then came
they whose rods had been half
dry, and cleft : many of these
gave up their rods green, and un
tleft.
37 Others delivered them up
green with branches, and fruit
upon the branches, like unto
theirs who went crowned into the
tower. Others delivered them up
dry, but not rotten; and some
gave them up as they were before,
half dry, and cleft.
! Sabano. Wid. Edit. Oxon. p. 129.
III. HERMAS. and the repentant.
38 Every one of these he or
dered to stand apart; some by
themselves, others in their re
spective ranks.
39 Then came they whose rods
had been green, but cleft. These
delivered their rods altogether
green, and stood in their own or
der. And the shepherd rejoiced
at these, because they were all
changed, and free from their
clefts.
40 Then they gave in their
rods, who had them half green
and half dry. Of these some were
found wholly green, others half
dry; others green, with young
shoots, And all these were sent
away, every one to his proper
rank.
41 Then they gave up their
rods, who had them before two
parts green, and the third dry.
Many of those gave in their rods
green; many half dry; the rest
dry but not rotten. So these were
sent away, each to his proper
place.
42 Then came they who had
before their rods two parts dry and
the third green ; many of these
delivered up their rods half dry,
others dry and rotten ; others half
dry and cleft ; but few green. And
all these were set every one in his
own rank.
43 Then they reached in their
rods, * in which there was before
but a little green, and the rest
dry. Their rods were for the
most part found green, having
littleboughs, with fruitupon them,
and the rest altogether green.
44 And the shepherd upon
sight of these rejoiced exceed.
ingly, because he had found them
thus ; and they also went to their
proper orders.
45 "I Nowafterhe had examined
habuerant viride.
not, d. *MS. Lamb. Minimum
240
sIMILITUDE VIII. their 1'ewards.
Lord, and denied his name which
had been called upon them.
Therefore all these are dead unto
God: and thou seest that none
of them have repented, although
they have heard my commands
which thou hast delivered unto
them. From these men there
fore life is far distant.
53 They also who have deli
vered up their rods dry, but not
rotten, have not been far from
them. For they have been coun
terfeits, and brought in evil doc
trines; and have perverted the
servants of God: but especially
those who had sinned; not suf
fering them to return unto re
pentance, but keeping them back
by their false doctrines.
54 These therefore have hope;
and thou seest that many of them
have repented, since the time
that thou hast laid my commands
before them; and many more will
yet repent. But they that shall
not repent shall lose both repent
ance and life.
55 But they that have repented,
their place is begun to be within
the first walls, and some of them
are even gone into the tower.
Thou seest therefore, said he, that
in the repentance of sinners there
is life; but for those who repent
not, death is prepared.
56 T Hear now concerning
those who gave in their rods half
dry and full of clefts. Those
whose rods were only half dry,
are the doubtful; for they are
neither living nor dead.
57 But they who delivered in
their rods, not only half dry but
also full of clefts, are both doubt
ful and evil speakers; who detract
from those that are absent, and
have never peace among them
selves, and that envy one another.
and of
all their rods, he said unto me, I
told thee that this tree loved
life: thou seest how many have
repented, and attained unto
salvation. Sir, said I, I see it.
46 That thou mightest know,
saith he, that the goodness and
meroy of the Lord is great, and
to be had in honour; who gave
his spirit to them that were
found worthy of repentance.
47 I answered, Sir, why then
did not all of them repent? He
replied, Those whose minds the
Lord foresaw would be pure, and
that they would serve him with
all their hearts, to them he gave
repentance.
48 But for those whose deceit
and wickedness he beheld, and
perceived that they would not
truly return unto him ; to them
he denied any return unto re
pentance, lest they should again
blaspheme his law with wicked
words.
49 I said unto him; Now, Sir,
make known unto me, what is the
place of every one of those, who
have given up their rods, and
what their 'portion; that when
they may have not kept their seal
entire, but have wasted the seal
which they received, shall hear
and believe these things, they
may acknowledge their evil deeds
and repent ;
50 And receiving again their
seal from you, may give glory to
God, that he was moved with
compassion towards them, and
sent you to renew their spirits.
51 Hearken, said he they
whose rods have been found dry
and rotten, and as it were touched
with the moth ; are the deserters
and the betrayers of the church.
52 Who with the rest of their
crimes, have also blasphemed the
* Sea.
21 241
Of the elect
58 Howbeit to those also re
III. HERMAs, and the repentant.
joined to the saints. For which
cause half of them liveth, and
half is dead. -
66 Wherefore many of these
since the time that they have
heard my commands, have re
pented, and begun to dwell in the
tower. But some of them have
wholly fallen away; to these there
is no more place for repentance.
67 For by reason of their pre
sent interests, they have blas
phemed and denied God: and for
this wickedness they have lost life.
And of these many are still in
doubt; these may yet return ;
and if they shall quickly repent,
they shall have a place in the
tower; but if they shall be more
slow, they shall dwell within the
walls; but if they shall not re
pent, they shall die.
68 As for those who had two
parts of their rods green, and the
third dry; they have by mani
fold ways denied the Lord. Of
these many have repented, and
found a place in the tower: and
many have altogether departed
from God. These have utterly
lost life.
69 And some being in a doubt
ful state, have raised up dissen
sions : these may yet return, if
they shall suddenly repent and
not continue in their lusts; but if
they shall continue in their evil
doing they shall die.
70 | They who gave in their
rods two parts dry, and the other
green ; are those who have indeed
been faithful, but withal rich and
full of good things; and there
upon have desired to be famous
among the heathen which are
without, and have thereby fallen
into great pride, and begun to
aim at high matters, and to for
sake the truth.
pentance is offered; for thou
seest that some of these have re
pented.
59 Now all those of this kind
who have quickly repented, shall
have a place in the tower; but
they who have been more slow in
their repentance, shall dwell
within the walls; but they that
shall not repent, but shall con
tinue on in their wicked doings,
shall die the death.
60 As for those who had their
rods green, but yet cleft; they
are such as were always faithful
and good, but they had some envy
and strife among themselves con
cerning dignity andpre-eminence.
61 Now all such are vain and
without understanding, as con
tend with one another about
these things.
62 Nevertheless, seeing they
are otherwise good, if when they
shall hear these commands they
shall amend themselves, and shall
at my persuasions suddenly re
pent; they shall at last dwell in
the tower, as they who have truly
and worthily repented.
63 But if any one shall again
return to his dissension; he shall
be shut out from the tower, and
shall lose his life. For the life
of those who keep the command
ments of the Lord, consists in
doing what they are commanded :
not in principality, or in any
other dignity.
64 For by forbearance and
humility of mind, men shall attain
unto life; but by seditions and
contempt of the law, they shall
purchase death unto themselves.
65 || They who in their rods
had half dry and half green, are
those who are engaged in many
affairs of the world, and are not
1 Lamb. MS. Quamplurimis generibus inficiati.
242
and of
71 Nor were they joined to the
'saints, but lived with the hea
then; and this life seemed the
more pleasant to them. Howbeit
they have not departed from
God, but continued in the faith;
only they have not wrought the
works of faith.
72 Many therefore of these
have repented; and begun to
dwell in the tower. Yet others
still living among the heathen
people, and being lifted up with
their vanities, have utterly fallen
away from God, and followed the
works and wickednesses of the
heathen. These kind of men
therefore are reckoned among
strangers to the Gospel.
73 Others of these began to be
doubtful in their minds; despair
ing by reason of theirwicked doings
ever to attain unto salvation:
others being thus made doubtful,
did moreover stir up dissensions.
74 To these therefore, and to
those who by reason of their
doings are become doubtful, there
is still hope of return ; but they
must repent quickly, that their
place may be in the tower. But
they that repent not, but con
tinue still in their pleasures, are
nigh unto death.
75 | As for those who gave in
their rods green, excepting their
tops, which only were dry, and
had clefts; these were always
good, and faithful, and ‘upright
before God; nevertheless they
sinned a little, by reason of their
empty pleasures and trifling
thoughts which they had within
themselves.
76 Wherefore many of them
when they heard my words, re
pented forthwith, and began to
dwell in the tower. Nevertheless
some grew doubtful, and others
1 Righteous.
SIMILITUDE VIII. their rewards.
to their doubtful minds added
dissensions. To these therefore
there is still hope of return, be
cause they were always good; but
they shall not hardly be moved.
77 As for those, lastly, who
gave in their rods dry, their tops
only excepted, which alone were
green : they are such as have be
lieved indeed in God, but have
lived in wickedness; yet without
departing from God : having
always willingly borne the name
of the Lord ; and readily received
into their houses the servants of
God.
78 Wherefore hearing these
things they returned, and with
out delay repented, and lived in
all righteousness. And some of
them suffered death : others
readily underwent many trials,
being mindful of their evil doings.
79 || And when he had ended
his explications of all the rods, he
said unto me, Go, and say unto
all men that they repent, and
they shall live unto God: because
the Lord being moved with great
clemency hath sent me to preach
repentance unto all. .
80 Even unto those who by
reason of their evil doings, de
serve not to attain unto salva
tion. But the Lord will be patient,
and keep the invitation that was
made by his Son.
81 I said unto him, Sir, I hope
that all when they shall hear
these things, will repent. For I
trust that everyone acknowledg
ing his crimes, and taking up the
fear of the Lord, will return
unto repentance.
82 He said unto me, Whosoever
shall repent with all their hearts,
and cleanse themselves from all
the evils that I have before men
tioned, and not add anything
2 Probi.
243
Of the mysteries
more to their sins, shall receive
from the Lord the cure of their
former iniquities, if they shall not
make any doubt of these com
mands, and shall live unto God.
83 But they that shall continue
to add to their transgressions,
and shall still converse with the
lusts of the present world, shall
condemn themselves unto death.
But do thou walk in these com
mands, and whosoever shall walk
in these, and exercise them
rightly, shall live unto God.
84 And having shewed me all
these things, he said; I will shew
thee the rest in a few days.
SIMILITUDE IX.
The greatest mysteries of the militant
and triumphant church which is to
be built.
FTER I had written the
Commands and Similitudes
of the Shepherd, the Angel of Re
pentance; he came unto me, and
said to me, I will shew thee all
those things which the ‘Spirit
spake with thee under the figure
of the Church. For that Spirit
is the Son of God.
2 And because thou wert weak
in body, it was not declared unto
thee by the argel, until thou
wert strengthened by the Spirit,
and increased in force, that thou
mightest also see the angel.
3 For then indeed the building
of the tower was very well and
gloriously shewn unto thee by the
church; nevertheless thou sawest
all things shewn unto thee as it
were by a virgin.
4 But now thou art enlightened
by the angel, but yet by the same
Spirit. But thou must consider all
things diligently; for therefore
am I sent into thy house by that
venerable 'messenger, that when
* See above, Book I.
III. HERMAS. of the church
thou shalt have seen all things
powerfully, thou mayest not be
afraid as before.
5 And he led me to the "height
of a mountain in Arcadia, and
we sat upon its top. And he
showed me a great plain, and
about it twelve mountains in dif
ferent figures.
6 The first was black as soot.
The second was smooth, without
herbs. The third was full of
thorns and thistles. The fourth
had herbs half dried; of which
the upper part was green, but
that next the root was dry; and
some of the herbs, when the sun
grew hot, were dry.
7 The fifth mountain was very
rugged; but yet had green herbs.
The sixth mountain was full of
clefts, some lesser, and some
greater; and in these clefts grew
grass, not flourishing, but which
seemed to be withering.
8 The seventh mountain had
delightful pasture, and was wholly
fruitful; and all kinds of cattle,
and of the birds of heaven, fed
upon it; and the more they fed
of it, the more and better did the
grass grow.
9 The eighth mountain was full
of fountains, and from those
fountains were watered all kinds
of the creatures of God. The ninth
mountain had no water at all,
but was wholly destitute of it;
and nourished deadly serpents,
and destructive to men.
10 The tenth mountain was full
of tall trees, and altogether shady,
and under the shade of them lay
cattle resting and chewingthe cud.
11 The eleventh mountain was
full of the thickest trees; and
those trees seemed to be loaded
with several sorts of fruits; that
whosoever saw them could not
* Angel. * Ascent.
244
militant
chuse but desire to eat of their
fruit.
12 The twelfth mountain was
altogether white, and of a most
pleasant aspect, and itself gave a
most excellent beauty to itself.
13 || In the middle of the ‘plain
he shewed me a huge white rock,
which rose out of the plain, and
the rock was higher than those
mountains, and was square; so
that it seemed capable of sup
porting the whole world.
14 It looked to me to be old,
yet it had in it a new gate, which
seemed to have been newly hewn
Now that gate was
out in it.
bright beyond the sun itself; in
somuch, that I greatly admired
coming; their countenances were
all alike; and they called a cer
at its light.
15 About the gate stood twelve
virgins; of which four that stood
at the corners of the gate, seemed
to me to be the chiefest, although
the rest were also of worth: and
they stood at the four parts of
the gate.
16 It added also to the grace of
those virgins, that they stood in
pairs, cloathed with linen gar
ments, and decently girded, their
right arms being at liberty, as if
they were about to lift up some
"burthen ; for so they were
adorned, and were exceeding
cheerful and ready.
17 When I saw this, I wondered
with myself to see such great and
noble things. And again I ad
mired upon the account of those
virgins, that they were so hand
some and delicate; and stood with
such firmness and constancy, as if
they would carry the whole heaven.
18 And as I was thinking thus
within myself, the shepherd said
unto me; what thinkest thou
within thyself, and art disquieted,
and fillest thyself with care?
SIMILITUDE IX. and triumphant.
19 Do not seem to consider, as
if thou wert wise, what thou doest
not understand, but pray unto the
Lord, that thou mayest have abil
ity to understand it : what is to
come thou canst not understand,
but thou seest that which is
before thee.
20 Be not therefore disquieted
at those things which thou canst
not see; but get the understand
ing of those which thou seest.
21 Forbear to be curious; and
I will shew thee all things that I
ought to declare unto thee: but
first consider what yet remains.
22 || And when he had said this
unto me I looked up, and behold
I saw six tall and venerable men
tain multitude of men; and they
who came at their call were also
tall and stout.
23 And those six commanded
them to build a certain tower
over that gate. And immediately
there began to be a great noise of
those men running here and there
about the gate, who were come
together to build the tower.
24 But those virgins which stood
about the gate perceived that the
building of the tower was to be
hastened by them. And they
stretched out their hands, as if
they were to receive somewhat
from them to do.
25 Then those six men com
manded that they should lift up
stones out a certain deep place,
and prepare them for the build
ing of the tower. And there were
lifted up ten white stones, square,
and "not cut round.
26 Then those six men called
the ten virgins to them, and com
manded them to carry all the
| stones that were to be put into
*Origen. Hom. iii. in Ezech. 2 Fas:em aliquem. Lat. * So Cotelerius in loc.
245
Of the mysteries of the church
twelve mountains to the building
of the same tower.
35 So they cut out of all the
mountains stones of divers col
ours, and brought them and gave
them to the virgins; which when
they had received they carried
them, and delivered them into
the building of the tower.
36 In which when they were
built they became white, and dif
ferent from what they were be
fore; for they were all alike, and
did change their former colours.
And some were reached up by the
men themselves, which when they
came into the building, con
tinued such as they were put in.
37 These neither became white,
nor different from what they were
before; because they were not car
ried by the virgins through the
gate. Wherefore these stones were
disagreeable in the building :
which, when those six men per
ceived they commanded them to be
removed, and put again in the
placefrom whichtheywerebrought.
38 And they said to those who
brought those stones; Do not ye
reach up to us any stones for this
building, but lay them down by
the tower, and these virgins may
carry them and reach them to us.
39 For unless they shall be car
ried by these virgins through
this gate, they cannot change
their colours: therefore do not
labour in vain.
40 T So the building that day
was done, howbeit the tower was
not finished; for it was afterwards
to be built, therefore now also
there was some delay made of it.
41 And these six men com
manded those that built to de
part, and as it were to rest for
some time; but they ordered
, those virgins that they should
the building and having carried
them through the gate to deliver
them to those that were about to
build the tower.
27 Immediately the virgins be
gan all of them together to lift
up those stones, that were before
taken out of the deep.
28 || And they who also stood
about the gate did carry stones in
such a manner, that those stones
which seemed to be the strongest
were laid at the corners, the rest
were put into the sides.
29 And thus they carried all
the stones, and bringing them
through the gate delivered them
to the builders, as they had been
commanded : who receiving them
at their hands, built with them.
30 But this building was made
upon that great rock, and over the
gate; and by these the wholetower
was supported. But the building
of the ten stones filled the whole
gate, which began to be made for
the foundation of that tower.
31 After those ten stones did
five and twenty others rise up
out of the deep ; and these were
placed in the building of the same
tower; being lifted up by those
virgins, as the others had been
before.
32. After these did five and
thirty others 'rise up; and these
were also in like manner fitted
into the same work. Then forty
other stones were brought up,
and all these were added unto the
building of that tower.
83 So there began to be four
ranks in the foundation of that
tower; and the stones ceased to
"rise out of the deep; and they
also which built rested a little.
84 Again those six men com
manded the multitude, that they
should bring stones out of those
III. HERMAS.
* MS. Lamb. Ascenderunt.
246
SIMILITUDE IX." and triumphant.
And he asked them whether the
Lord of that tower was come
thither? And they replied, that
he would be there presently to
examine the building.
49 || After a very little while I
saw a great multitude of men
coming, and in the middle of
them a man so tall, that he sur
passed the tower in height.
50. About him were those six,
who before commanded in the
building, and all the rest of those
who had built that tower, and
many others of great dignity: and
the virgins that kept the tower
ran to meet him, and kissed him
and began to walk near unto him,
51 But he examined the build
ing with so much care that he
handled every stone; and struck
every one with a rod which he
held in his hand :
52 Of which some being so
struck turned black as soot; others
were rough ; some looked as if
they had cracks in them; others
seemed maimed; some neither
black nor white; some looked
sharp, and agreed not with the
other stones, and others were
full of spots,
53 These were the several kinds
of those stones which were not
found proper in the building; all
which the Lord commanded to be
taken out of the tower, and laid
near it, and other stones to be
brought and put in their places.
54 And they that built, asked
him from which of the mountains
he would have stones brought to
put in the place of those that
were laid aside. But he forbad
them to bring any from the
mountains, and commanded that
they should take them out of a
certain field that was near.
55 So they digged in the field,
militant
not depart from the tower; now
they seemed to me to be left for
the guarding of it.
42 When all were departed, I
said unto that shepherd; Sir, why
is not the building of the tower
finished? Because it cannot, said
he, be finished until its Lord
comes, and approves of the build
ing; that if he shall find any stones
in it that are not good they may
be changed; for this tower is
built according to his will.
43 Sir, said I, I would know
what the building of this tower
signifies; as also I would be in
formed concerning this rock, and
this gate.
44 And concerning the moun
tains, and the virgins, and the
stones that did rise out of the
deep, and were not cut, but put
into the building just as they came
forth ; and why the ten stones
were first laid in the founda
tion; then the twenty-five; then
thirty-five; then forty?
45 Also concerning those stones
that were put into the building,
and again taken out, and carried
back into their place? Fulfil, I
pray, the desire of my soul as to
all these things and manifest all
unto me.
46 And he said unto me; If
thou shalt not be dull, thou shalt
know all, and shalt see all the
other things that are about to
happen in this tower: and shalt
understand diligently all these
similitudes. -
47 And after a few days we
came into the same place where
we had sat before ; and he said
unto me, Let us go unto the
tower; for the Lord of it will
come and examine it.
48 So we came thither, and
found none butthose virgins there.
* Greatness.
247
Of the mysteries •III
and found many bright square
stones, and some also that were
round. Howbeit, all that were
found in that field were taken
away, and carried through the
gate by those virgins; and those
of them that were square were
fitted and put into the places of
those that were pulled out.
56 But the round ones were not
put into the building,because they
were hard, and it would have re
quired too much time to cut
them; but they were placed
about the tower, as if they should
hereafter be cut square, and put
into the building; for they were
very white.
57 ſ When he who was chief in
dignity, and lord of the whole
tower saw this, he called to him
the shepherd that was with me
and gave him the stones that
were rejected and laid about the
tower, and said unto him; cleanse
these stones with all care, and fit
them into the building of the
tower, that they may agree with
the rest; but those that will not
suit with the rest, cast away afar
off from the tower.
58 When he had thus com
manded him, he departed, with all
those that came with him to the
tower: but those virgins still
stood about the tower to keep it.
59 And I said unto that shep
herd, How can these stones, see
ing they have been rejected, re
turnintothebuildingofthistower?
He replied; I will cut off the
greatest part from these stones,
and will add them to the building,
and they will agree with the rest.
60 And I said, Sir, how will
they be able to fill the same
place, when they shall be so much
cut away? He answered; They
that shall be found too little shall
HERMAS.
* MS. Lamb. Ita exasperetur, ut hila
patris-familias.
pides.
of the church
be put into the middle of the
building, and the greater shall be
placed without, and keep them in.
61 When he had said thus unto
me, he added; Let us go, and
after three days we will return,
and I will put these stones, being
cleansed, into the tower.
62 For all these that are about
the tower must be cleansed, lest
the master of the house chance to
come upon the sudden, and find
those which are about the tower
unclean; 'and be so exasperated,
that these stones should never be
put into the building of this
tower, and I shall be looked upon
to have been "unmindful of my
master's commands.
63 When therefore we came
after three days to the tower, he
said unto me; Let us examine all
these stones, and let us see which
of them may go into the building.
I answered, Sir, let us see.
64 || And first of all we begun
to consider those which had been
black; for they were found just
such as they were when they were
pulled out of the tower: where
fore he commanded them to be
removed from the tower and put
by themselves.
65 Then he examined those
which had been rough ; and com
manded many of those to be cut
round, and to be fitted by the vir
gins into the building of the tower;
so they took them, and fitted them
into the middle of the building;
and he commanded the rest to be
laid by with the black ones, for
they also were become black.
66 Next he considered those
which were full of cracks, and
many of those also he ordered to
be pared away, and so to be
added to the rest of the building
by the same virgins. -
* MS. Lamb. Negligens.
militant
67 These were placed without
because they were found entire;
but the residue through the mul
titude of their cracks could not
be reformed, and therefore were
cast away from the building of
the tower.
68 Then he considered those
that had been maimed; many of
these had cracks, and were be
come black; others were large
clefts; these he commanded to be
placed with those that were re
jected.
69 But the rest being cleansed
and reformed, he commanded to
be put into the building. These
therefore those virgins took up,
and fitted into the middle of the
building, because they were but
weak.
70 After these he examined
those which were found half
white and half black; and many
of those were now black; these
also he ordered to be laid among
those that were cast away.
71 The rest were found alto
gether white; those were taken
up by the virgins, and fitted into
the same tower: 'and these were
put in the outside, because they
were found entire; that so they
might keep in those that were
placed in the middle, for nothing
was cut off from them.
72 Next he looked upon those
'which had been hard and sharp;
but few of these were made use
of because they could not be cut,
for they were found very hard :
but the rest were formed, and
fitted by the virgins into the
middle of the building, because
they were more weak.
73. Then he considered those
which had spots; of these a few
were found black, and these were
carried to their fellows. The rest
1. viºs. Lamb. Edit. Oxon. p. 157.
3 -
SIMILITUDE IX. and triumphant.
were white and entire; and they
were fitted by the virgins into the
building, and placed in the out
side, by reason of their strength.
74 || After this he came to con
sider those stones which were
white and round : and he said
unto me, What shall we do with
these stones? I answered, Sir, I
cannot tell.
75 He replied, Canst thou think
of nothing then for these? I an
swered, Sir, I understand not
this art; neither am I a stone
cutter, nor can I tell any thing.
76 And he said, seest thou not
that they are very round? Now
to make them square, I must cut
off a great deal from them; how
beit, it is necessary that some of
these should go into the building
of the tower.
77 I answered; If it be neces
sary, why do you perplex your
self, and not rather chuse, if you
have any choice among them,
and fit them into the building.
78 Upon this he chose out the
largest and brightest, and
squared them; which when he
had done the virgins took them
up, and placed them in the out
side of the building.
79 And the rest that remained
were carried back into the same
field from which they were taken;
howbeit, they were not cast away;
because, said he, there is not yet
a little wanting to this tower,
which is to be built; and perhaps
the Lord will have these stones
fitted into this building, because
they are exceeding white.
80 Then were there called
twelve very stately women,
clothed with a black garment,
girded, and their shoulders free,
and their hairloose. These seemed
to me to be country women.
2 MS. Lamb. Fuerant.
249
Of the mysteries of the church
rubbish, and threw water on ;
which being done, the place be
came delightful, and the tower
beauteous.
90 Then he said unto me, All
is now clean : if the Lord should
come to finish the tower, he will
find nothing whereby to com
plain of us.
91 When he had said this he
would have departed. But I laid
hold on his bag, and began to en
treat him for the Lord’s sake,
that he would explain to me all
things that he had shown me.
92. He said unto me, I have at
present a little business; but I
will suddenly explain all things
unto thee. Tarry here for me
till I come.
93 I said unto him, Sir, what
shall I do here alone? He answer
ed, Thou art not alone, seeing all
these virgins are with thee.
94 I said, Sir, deliver me then
unto them. Then he called them
and said unto them, I commend
this man unto you until I shall
COme.
95 So I remained with those
virgins: now they were cheerful
and courteous unto me; especi
ally the four, which seemed to be
the chief test among them.
96 iſ Then those virgins said
unto me, that shepherd will not
return hither to-day. I said unto
them, What then shall I do?
They answered, Tarry for him till
the evening, if perhaps he may
come and speak with thee, but if
not, yet thou shalt continue with
us till he does come.
97 I said unto them, I will
tarry for him till evening; but if
he comes not by that time, I will
go home, and return hither
again the next morning.
98 They answered me, Thou
81 And the shepherd com
manded them to take up those
stones which were cast out of the
building, and carry them back to
the mountains out of which they
were taken.
82 And they took them all up
joyfully, and carried them back
to their places from whence they
had been taken. -
83 When not one stone re
mained about the tower, he said
unto me, Let us go about this
tower, and see whether any
thing be wanting to it.
84 We began therefore to go
round about it; and when he saw
that it was handsomely built, he
began to be very glad; for it was
so beautifully framed, that any
one that had seen it must have
been in love with the building:
85 For it seemed to be all but
one stone, nor did a joint any
where appear; but it looked as if
it had all been cut out of one
rock.
86 T And when I diligently
considered what a tower it was,
I was extremely pleased : and he
said unto me, Bring hither some
lime and little shells, that I may
fill up the 'spaces of those stones
that were taken out of the build
ing, and put in again; for all
things about the tower must be
made even.
87 And I did as he commanded
me, and brought them unto him :
and he said unto me, Be ready
to help me, and this work will
quickly be finished.
88 He therefore filled up the
spaces of those stones, and com
manded the place about the tower
to be cleansed.
89 Then those virgins took be
soms, and cleansed all the place
around, and took away all the
HERMAS III.
1 Formas. Lat.
250
Irth
On ,
OWer
, All
10uld
will
COſm
is he
[laid
0 el
sake,
16 all
le,
we at
but I
hing;
ſ mé
what
SWeſ.
1% al
then
them
med
sº
thºs:
affil
jºi
tº
s:
| ||
ſt)
ºf
ºil
mºſ
hiſ
with
will
bºtſ
| will
ſtºr
ſº
militant
art delivered unto us, thou may
est not depart from us, I said,
Where shall I tarry?
99 They replied, Thou shalt
sleep with us as a brother, not
as a husband: for thou art our
brother, and we are ready from
henceforth to dwell with thee;
for thou art very dear to us.
100 Howbeit I was ashamed to
continue with them. But she that
seemed to be the chieftest
amongst them, embraced me, and
began to kiss me. And the rest
when they saw that I was kissed
by her, began also to kiss me as a
brother; and led me about the
tower, and played with me.
101 Some of them also sung
psalms, others made up the cho
rus with them. But I walked
fibout the tower with them, re
joicing silently, and seeming to
myself to be grown young again.
102. When the evening came
on, I would forthwith have gone
home, but they withheld me, and
suffered me not to depart. Where
fore I continued with them that
night near the same tower.
103 So they spread their linen
garments upon the ground; and
placed me in the middle, nor did
they anything else, only they
prayed.
104 I also prayed with them
without ceasing, nor less than
they. Who when they saw me
pray in that manner, rejoiced
greatly; and I continued there
with them till the next day.
105 And when we had wor
shipped God, then the shepherd
came and said unto them : You
have done no injury to this man.
They answered, Ask him. I said
unto him, Sir, I have received a
great deal of satisfaction in that
I have remained with them.
* Itaut. Lat.
SIMILITUDE IX. and triumphant.
106 And he said unto me, How
didst thou sup? I answered, Sir,
I feasted the whole night upon
the words of the Lord. They re
ceived thee well then, said he ... I
said, Sir, very well.
107 He answered, Wilt, thou
now learn what thou didst de
sire? I replied, Sir, I will : and
first I pray thee that thou
shouldest shew me all things in
the order that I asked them.
108 He answered, I will do all
as thou wouldst have me, nor will
I hide anything from thee.
109 "I First of all, Sir, said I,
tell me, what this rock, and this
gate denote? Hearken, said he ;
this rock, and this gate, are the
Son of God. I replied, Sir, how
can that be ; seeing the rock is
old, but the gate new.
110 Hear, said he, O foolish
man l and understand. The Son
of God is indeed more ancient
than any creature; 'insomuch
that he was in council with his
Father at the creation of 'all
things.
111 But the gate is therefore
new, because he appeared in the
last days in the fulness of time;
that they who shall attain unto
salvation, may by it enter into
the kingdom of God.
112 You have seen, said he,
those stones which were carried
through the gate, how they were
placed in the building of the
tower; but that those which were
not carried through the gate,
were sent away into their own
places?
113 I answered, Sir, I saw it.
Thus, said he, no man shall enter
into the kingdom of God, but he
who shall take upon him the name
of the Son of God.
114 For if you would enter
->
* The creature S,
251
Of the mysteries
into any city, and that city
should be encompassed with a
wall, and had only one gate,
could you enter into that city ex
cept by that gate?
114 I answered, Sir, how could
I do otherwise? As therefore, said
he, there would be no other way
of entering into that city but by
its gate, so neither can any one
enter into the kingdom of God,
but only by the name of his Son,
who is most dear unto him.
115 And he said unto me,
Didst thou see the multitude of
those that built that tower? Sir,
said I, I saw it. He answered,
All those are the angels, vener
able in their dignity.
116 With those is the Lord en
compassed as with a wall; but
the gate is the Son of God, who is
the only way of coming unto God.
For no man shall go to God, but
by his Son.
117 Thou sawest also, said he,
the six men, and in the middle of
them that venerable great man,
who walked about the tower, and
rejected the stones out of the
tower?
118 Sir, said I, I saw them. He
answered, that tall man was the
Son of God: and those six were
his angels of most eminent dig
nity, which stand about him on
the right hand and on the left.
119 Of these excellent angels
none comes in unto God without
him. He added, Whosoever
therefore shall not take upon him
his name, he shall not enter into
the kingdom of God.
120 T Then I said, What is this
tower? This, said he, isthe church.
And what, Sir, are these virgins?
He said unto me, These are the
holy spirits, for no man can enter
into the kingdom of God, except
1 Vid. Annot. Edit. Oxon. p. 116. d.
III. HERMAS. | of the church.
these clothe him with their gar
ment.
121 For it will avail thee no
thing to take up the name of the
Son of God, unless thou shalt also
receive their garment from them.
For these virgins are the powers.
of the Son of God. So shall a
man in vain bear his name, unless
he shall be also endued with his
powers.
122 And he said unto me, saw
est thou those stones that were
cast away? They bore indeed
the name, but put not on their
garment. I said, Sir, what is.
their garment? Their very
names, said he, are their gar
ment.
123 Therefore whosoever bear
eth the name of the Son of God,
ought to bear their names also;
for the Son of God also himself
beareth their names.
124 As for those stones, con
tinued he, which being delivered
by their hands, thou sawest re
main in the building, they were
clothed with their power; for
which cause thou seest the whole
tower of the same ‘colour with
the rock, and made as it were of
one stone.
125 So also those who have be
lieved in God by his Son, have
put on his spirit. Behold there
shall be one spirit, and one body,
and one colour of their garments;
and all they shall attain this, who
shall bear the names of these vir
gins.
126 And I said, Sir, why then
were those stones cast away which
were rejected, seeing they also
were carried through the gate,
and delivered by the hands of
these virgins into the building of
this tower?
127 Seeing, said he, thou takest
2 Wid. Origen. Philocal. c. viii.
252 -
militant
care to inquire diligently into all
things, hear also concerning those
stones which were rejected. All
these received the name of the
Son of God, and with that the
power of these virgins.
128 Having therefore received
these spirits, they were perfected,
and brought into the number of
the servants of God; and they be
gan to be one body, and to have
one garment, for they were 'en
dued with the same righteousness,
which they alike exercised.
129 But after that they beheld
those women which thou sawest
clothed with a black garment,
with their shoulders at liberty and
their hair loose; they fixed their
desires upon them, being tempted
with their beauty; and were
clothed with their power, and
cast off the clothing of the vir
gins:
130 Therefore were they cast off
from the house of God, and de
livered to those women: But they
that were not corrupted with
their beauty, remained in the
house of God. This, said he, is
the signification of those stones
which were rejected.
131 || And I said, Sir, what if
any of these men shall repent, and
cast away their desire of those
women, and be converted, and re
turn to these virgins, and put on
again their virtue; shall they not
enter into the house of God?
132 They shall enter, said he, if
they shall lay aside all the works
of those women, and shall resume
the power of these virgins, and
shall walk in their works.
133 And for this cause there is
a stop in the building, that if they
shall repent, they may be added
to the building of this tower; but
SIMILITUDE IX. and triumphant.
if they shall not repent, that
others may be built in their
places, and so they may be utterly
cast away.
134 For all these things I gave
thanks unto the Lord, that being
moved with mercy towards all
those upon whom his name is
called, he sent to us the angel of
repentance to preside over us who
have sinned against him ; and
that he has refreshed our spirits
which were almost gone, and who
had no hope of salvation, but are
now refreshed to the renewal of
life.
135 Then I said, Shew me now,
Sir, why this tower is not built
upon the ground, but upon a
rock, and upon the gate? He re
plied, thou art foolish, and with
out understanding, therefore thou
asketh this.
136 And I said, Sir, I must
needs ask all things of you, be
cause I understand nothing at all.
For all your answers are great
and excellent; and which a man
can hardly understand.
137 Hear, said he . The name
of the Son of God is great and
without bounds, and the whole
world is supported by it. If there
fore, said I, every creature of God
be sustained by his Son, why
should he not support those also
who have been invited by him,
and who carry his name, and walk
in his commandments?
138 Seest thou not, said he, that
he doth support them, who with
all their heart bear his name? He
therefore is their foundation, and
gladly supports those who do not
deny his name, but willingly bear
it.
139 || And I said: Sir, tell me
the names of these virgins; and
1 Sentiebant equitatem, Lat. from the Greek eqpovev: but the true reading
of Hermas seemeth to have been sºosev,
253
Of the mysteries III.
of those women that were clothed
with the black garment.
140 Hear, said he, the names of
those virgins which are the more
powerful, and stand at the cor
ners of the gate. These are their
names :
141 The first is called ‘Faith;
the second Continence; the third,
HERMAS.
Power; the fourth, Patience; the
rest which stand beneath these
are, Simplicity, Innocence, Chas
tity, Cheerfulness, Truth, Under
standing, Concord, Charity.
142 Whosoever therefore bear
these names, and the name of the
Son of God, shall enter into the
kingdom of God.
143 Hear now, said he, the
names of those women, which
were clothed with the black gar
ment. Of these, four are the prin
cipal : the first is Perfidiousness;
the second, Incontinence; the
third, Infidelity; the fourth,
Pleasure.
144 And the rest which follow
are called thus, Sadness, Malice,
Lust, Anger, Lying, Foolishness,
Pride, and Hatred. The servant
of God, which carries these spirits,
shall see indeed the kingdom of
God, but he shall not enter into it.
145 But, Sir, what are those
stones which were taken out of the
deep and fitted into the building?
The ten, said he, which were
placed at the foundation, are the
first age; the following five-and
twenty, the second, of righteous
Inen.
146 The next thirty-five, are
the prophets and ministers of the
Lord. And the forty, are the
Apostles and doctors of the
preaching of the Son of God.
147 And I said, Sir, why did
1 Origin. Hom. 13, in Ezek.
p. 171 b. 4 Traditur, Delivered.
Comp. 1 Pet. iii. 19.
* Justos, Righteous.
of the church
the virgins put even those stones
into the building after they were
carried through the gate? And
he said, Because these first car
ried those spirits, and they de
parted not one from the one,
neither the men from the spirits,
nor the spirits from the men :
148 But the spirits were joined
to those men even to the day of
their death; who if they had not
had these spirits with them, they
could not have been useful to the
building of this tower.
149 And I said, Sir, shew me
this farther. He answered, What
dost thou ask? Why did these
stones come out of the deep, and
were placed into the building of
this tower, seeing that they long
ago carried those 'holy spirits?
150 “It was necessary, said he,
for them to ascend by water, that
they might be at rest. For they
could not otherwise enter into the
kingdom of God, but by laying
aside the mortality of their
former life.
151 They therefore being dead,
were nevertheless sealed with the
seal of the Son of God, and so en
tered into the kingdom of God.
152 For before a man receives
the name of the Son of God, he is
ordained unto death; but when
he received that seal, he is freed
from death,and“assigned unto life.
153 Now that seal is the water
of baptism, into which men go
down under the obligation unto
death, but come up appointed
unto life.
154 Wherefore to those also was
this seal ‘preached, and they made
use of it, that they might enter
into the kingdom of God.
155 And I said, Why then, sir,
3 Vid. Edit. Oxon.
Vid. Coteler. Annot. in loc. p. 77, 78.
254
militant
did these forty stones also ascend
with them out of the deep, having
already received that seal?
156 He answered, “Because
these Apostles and teachers, who
preached the name of the son of
God, dying after they had received
his faith and power, preached to
them who were dead before; and
they gave this seal to them.
157 They went down therefore
into the water with them, and
again came up. But these went
down whilst they were alive, and
came up again alive: whereas
those who were before dead, went
down dead, but came up alive;
158 Through these therefore
they received life, and knew the
Son of God; for which cause they
came up with them, and were fit
to come into the building of the
tower; and were not cut, but put
in entire; because they died in
righteousness, andingreat purity;
only this seal was wanting to
them.
159 Thus you have the explica
tion of these things.
160 | I answered : Sir, tell me
now what concerns those moun
tains, why are they so different ;
some of one form, and some of an
other.
161 Hear, said he ; These twelve
mountains which thou Seest, are
twelve nations, which make up the
whole world. Wherefore the Son
of God is preached to them, by
those whom he sent unto them.
162 But why, said I, are they
different, and every one of a
figure? He replied, Hearken.
Those twelve nations which pos
sess the whole world, are twelve
people.
163 And as thou hast beheld
these mountains different, so are
they. I will therefore open to
1 Vid. Clem. Alex. Strom. ii. et vi.
SIMILITUDE IX. and triumphant.
thee the meaning and actions of
every mountain.
164 But first, sir, said I, shew
me this ; Seeing these mountains
are so different, how have they
agreed into the building of this
tower; and been brought to one
colour; and are no less bright
than those that came out of the
deep?
165 Because, replied he, all the
nations which are under heaven,
have heard and believed in the
same one name of the Son of God
by whom they are called.
166 Wherefore having received
his seal, they have all been made
partakers of the same 'under
standing and 'knowledge; and
their faith and charity have been
the same ; and they have carried
the spirits of these virgins to
gether with his name.
167 And therefore the building
of this tower appeared to be of
the same colour, and did shine
like the brightness of the sun.
168 But after that they had
thus agreed in one mind there be
gan to be one body of them all;
howbeit some of them polluted
themselves, and were cast off from
the kind of the righteous, and
again returned to their former
state, and became even worse than
they were before.
169 || How, said I, sir, were they
worse who knew the Lord? He
answered: If he who knows not
the Lord liveth wickedly, the
punishment of his wickedness at
tends him.
170 But he who has known the
Lord, ought to abstain altogether
from all wickedness, and more
and more to be the servant of
righteousness.
171 And does not he then seem
to thee to sin more who ought to
3 Sense.
2 Prudence.
255
HERMAs.
of the mysteries III.
follow goodness, if he shall prefer
the part of sin; than he who
offends without knowing the
power of God?
172 Wherefore these are indeed
ordained unto death; but they
who have known the Lord, and
have seen his wonderful works, if
they shall live wickedly, they
shall be doubly punished, and
shall die for ever.
173 As therefore thou hast seen
that after the stones were cast out
of the tower, which had been re
jected; they were delivered to
wicked and cruel spirits; and thou
beheldest the tower so cleansed,
as if it had all been made of one
stone :
174 "So the church of God, when
it shall be purified: (the "wicked
and counterfeits, the ‘mischiev
ous and doubtful, and all that
have behaved themselves wickedly
in it, and committed divers kinds
of sin, being cast out) shall be
come one body, and there shall be
one understanding, one opinion,
one faith, and the same charity.
175 And then shall the Son of
God rejoice among them, and
shall receive his people with
pure will. -
176 And I said ; Sir, all these
things are great and honourable;
but now shew unto me the effect
and force of every mountain;
that every soul which trusteth
in the Lord, when it shall hear
these things may honour his
great, and wonderful, and holy
IlaIne. -
177 Hear, said he, the variety
of these mountains, that is, of the
twelve nations.
178 | They who have believed
of the first mountain, which is
black, are those who have re
1. Lat. Virtutem. 2 Vid. Orig. Philocal. c. viii.
of the church
volted from the faith; and spoken
wicked things against the Lord :
and betrayed the servants of
God.
179 These are condemned to
death, there is no repentance for
them : and therefore they are
black, because their kind is
wicked.
180 Of the second mountain
which was smooth, are the ‘hypo
crites, who have believed, and the
teachers of naughtiness: and
these are next to the foregoing,
which have not in them the fruit
of righteousness.
181 For as their mountain is
barren and without fruit; so also
such kind of men have indeed the
name of Christians, but are empty
of faith; nor is there any fruit of
the truth in them.
182 Nevertheless there is room
left to them of repentance, if they
shall suddenly pursue it; but if
they shall delay, they also shall be
partakers of death with the fore
going kind.
183 I said, Sir, why is there
room left to those for repentance,
and not to the foregoing kind,
seeing their sins are well nigh the
same?
184 There is therefore, said he,
to these a return unto life by re
pentance, because they have not
blasphemed against their Lord,
nor betrayed the servants of God :
but by their desire of gain have
deceived men, leading them ac
cording to the lusts of sinners;
wherefore they shall suffer for
this thing.
185 Howbeit there is still left
them room for repentance, be
cause they have not spoken any
thing wickedly against the Lord.
186 T They who are of the
& Evil. 4 Profligate.
56
militant and
third mountain which had thorns
and brambles, are those who be
lieved, but were some of them
rich, others taken up with many
affairs : the brambles are their
riches: the thorns, those affairs in
which they were engaged.
187 Now they who are en
tangled in much business, and in
diversity of affairs, join not them
selves to the servants of God, but
wander, being called away by
those affairs with which they are
choked. -
188 And so they which are
rich, with difficulty yield them
selves to the * conversation of the
servants of God; fearing lest any
thing should be asked of them.
These therefore shall hardly enter
into the kingdom of God.
189 For as men walk with dif
ficulty bare-foot over thorns, even
so these kind of men shall
scarcely enter into the kingdom
of God.
190 Nevertheless there is af
forded to all these a return unto
repentance ; if that they shall
quickly return to it; that because
in their former days they have
neglected to work, in the time
that is to come they may do some
good.
191 If therefore having re
pented they shall do the works of
righteousness, they shall live; but
if they shall continue in their evil
courses, they shall be delivered to
those women that will take away
their life.
192 || As for the fourth moun
tain, which had many herbs, the
upper part of which is green, but
the roots dry, and some of which
being touched with the heat of the
sun are withered;
193 It denotes the doubtful,
who have believed, and some
* Wid. Edit. Oxon. p. 178. Not. b.
SIMILITUDE IX. triumphant.
others who carry the Lord in their
tongues, but have him not in their
heart: therefore their grass is dry,
and without root; because they
live only in words, but their works
are dead.
194 These therefore are neither
dead nor living, and withal are
doubtful. For the doubtful are
neither green nor dry ; that is,
neither dead nor alive.
195 For as the herbs dry away
at the sight of the sun; so the
doubtful as soon as they hear of
persecution, and fear inconve
niences, return to their idols, and
again serve them, and are
ashamed to bear the name of
their Lord.
196 This kind of men then is
neither dead nor alive; neverthe
less these also may live, if they
shall presently repent ; but if not,
they shall be delivered to those
women, who shall take away their
life.
197 T As concerning the fifth
mountain that is craggy, and yet
has green grass: they are of this
kind who have believed, and are
faithful indeed, but believe with
difficulty; and are bold, and self
conceited; that would be thought
to know all things, but really
know nothing.
198 Wherefore, by reason of
this confidence, knowledge is de
parted from them; and a rash pre
sumption is entered into them.
199 But they carry themselves
high, and as prudent men ; and
though they are fools, yet would
seem to be teachers.
200 Now by reason of this
folly many of them, whilst they
magnify themselves, are become
vain and empty. For boldness
and vain confidence is a "very
evil spirit.
* Magnum Daemonium.
33 257
Of the mysteries
201 Wherefore many of these
are cast away; but others acknow
ledging their error, have repented,
and submitted themselves to those
who are knowing.
202 And to all the rest of this
kind there is repentance allowed;
forasmuch as they were not so
much wicked as foolish, as void of
understanding.
203 If these therefore shall re
pent, they shall live unto God;
but if not, they shall dwell with
those women, who shall exercise
their wickedness upon them.
204 || For what concerns the
sixth mountain having greater and
lesser clefts, they are such as have
believed; but those in which were
lesser clefts are they who have had
controversies among themselves;
and by reason of their quarrels
languish in the faith;
205 Nevertheless many of these
have repented, and so will the rest
when they shall hear my com
mands; for their controversies are
but small, and they will easily re
turn unto repentance.
206 But those who have the
greater clefts, will be as stiffstones,
mindful of grudges and offences,
and full of anger among them
selves. These therefore are cast
from the tower, and refused to be
put into its building; for this kind
of men shall hardly live.
207 Our God and Lord, who
ruleth over all things, and has
power over all his creatures, will
not remember our offences, but is
easily appeased by those who con
fess their sins : but man being
languid, mortal, infirm, and full of
sins, perseveres in his anger against
man; as if it were in his power to
save or destroy him.
208 But I, as the angel who
am set over your repentance, ad
III. HERMAS. of the churca
monish you, that whosoever a
mong you has any such purpose
he should lay it aside, and return
unto repentance ; and the Lord
will heal your former sins, if you
shall purge yourselves from this
evil spirit; but if you shall not do
it, ye shall be delivered to him
unto death.
209 "I As for the seventh moun
tain in which the grass was green
and flourishing, and the whole
mountain faithful; and all kind
of cattle fed upon the grass of it,
and the more the grass was eaten
so much the more it flourished:
210 They are such as believed,
and were always good and up
right ; and without any differ
ences among themselves, but still
rejoiced in the servants of God,
having put on the spirit of these
virgins; and been always forward
to shew mercy to all men, readily
giving to all men of their labours
without upraiding, and without
deliberation.
211 Wherefore the Lord seeing
their simplicity and 1 innocence,
has increased them in the works of
their hands, and given them grace
in all their works.
212 But I, who am the angel
appointed over your repentance,
exhort you, that as many as are of
this kind would continue in the
same purpose, that your seed may
not be rooted out for ever.
213 For the Lord hath tried
you, and written you into our
Mumber; and all your seed shall
dwell with the Son of God; for
ye are all of his spirit.
214 " As concerning the eighth
mountain in which were a great
many springs, by which every
kind of all the creatures of God
was watered ; they are such as
have believed the Apostles which
| Infancy
258
militant
the Lord sent into all the world to
preach ;
215 And some of them being
teachers have preached and taught
purely and sincerely, and have
not in the least yielded to any evil
desires, but haveconstantly walked
in righteousness and truth.
216 These therefore have their
conversations among the angels.
217 || Again; as for what con
cerns the ninth mountain which is
desert, and full of serpents; they
are such as have believed, but had
many stains :
218 These are such ministers
as discharge their ministry amiss;
ravishing away the goods of the
widows and fatherless; and serve
themselves, not others, out of
those things which they have re
ceived.
219 These, if they continue in
this covetousness, have delivered
themselves unto death, nor shall
there be any hope of life for
them. But if they shall be con
verted, and shall discharge their
ministry sincerely, they may
live.
220 As for those which were
found rough, they are such as
have denied the name of the
Lord, and not returned again to
the Lord, but have become savage
and wild; not applying them
selves to the servants of God ; but
being separated from them, have
for a little carelessness lost their
lives.
221 For as a vine that is for
saken in a hedge, and never
dressed, perishes and is choked
by the weeds, and in time be
comes wild, and ceases to be
useful to its lord ; so this kind of
men despairing of themselves, and
being soured, have begun to be un
profitable to their Lord.
SIMILITUDE IX. and triumphant.
222 Howbeit to these there is,
after all, repentance allowed, if
they shall not be found from
their hearts to have denied
Christ : but if any of these shall
be found to have denied him
from his heart, I cannot tell whe
ther such a one can attain unto
life.
223 I say therefore that if any
one hath denied, he should in
these days return unto repentance;
for it cannot be that any one who
now denies the Lord, can after
wards attain unto salvation: never
theless repentance is proposed
unto them who have formerly
denied.
224 But he who will repent
must hasten on his repentance,
before the building of this tower
is finished : otherwise, he shall be
delivered by those women unto
death.
225 But they that are maimed
are the deceitful; and those who
mix with one another, these are
the serpents that you saw min
gled in that mountain.
226 For as the poison of ser
pents is deadly unto men; so the
words of such persons infect and
destroy men. They are there
fore maimed in their faith, by
reason of that kind of life which
they lead.
227 Howbeit some of them,
having repented, have been saved;
and so shall others of the same
kind be also saved, if they shall
repent; but if not, they shall die
by those women whose power and
force they possess.
228 "I For what concerns the
tenth mountain, in which were the
trees covering the cattle, they are
such as have believed ; and some
of them have been bishops, that
is, governors of the churches.
*MS Lamb. Et quidam Doctores caste : Omitting Qui.
259
Of the mysteries
229 Others, are such stones as
have not feignedly, but with a
cheerful mind entertained the ser
vants of God.
230 Then such as have been
set over inferior ministries; and
have protected the poor and the
widows; and have always kept
a chaste conversation : therefore
they also are protected by the
Lord.
231 Whosoever shall do on this
wise, are honoured with the Lord ;
and their place is among the an
gels, if they shall continue to obey
the Lord even unto the end.
232'ſ As to the eleventh moun
tain in which were trees loaded
with several sorts of fruits, they
are such as have believed, and
suffered death, for the name of the
Lord ; and have endured with a
ready mind, and have given up
their lives with all their hearts.
233 And I said, Why then, sir,
have all these fruit indeed, but yet
some fairer than others?
234 Hearken, said he Who
soever have suffered for the name
of the Lord are esteemed honour
able by the Lord; and all their
offences are blotted out, because
they have suffered death for the
name of the Son of God.
235 Hear now, why their fruits
are different, and some of them
excel others, they who being
brought before magistrates, and
being asked, denied not the Lord,
but suffered with a ready mind;
these are more honourable with the
!,Jrd. The fruits therefore that
are the most fair are these.
236 But they who were fearful
and doubtful, and have deliberated
with themselves whether they
should confess or deny Christ, and
yet have suffered; their fruits are
smaller, because that this thought
came into their hearts.
237 For it is a wicked and evil
III. HERMAS. of the church
thought for a servant to deliberate
whether he should deny his mas
ter. Take heed therefore ye who
have such thoughts, that this mind
continue not in you, and ye die
unto God.
238 But ye who suffer death
for his name sake, ought to honour
the Lord, that he has esteemed
you worthy to bear his name; and
that you should be delivered from
all your sins.
239 And why therefore do you
notrather esteem yourselves happy?
Yea think verily that if any one
among you suffer, he performs
a great work | For the Lord giveth
you life, and ye understand it not.
For your offences did oppress you;
and if you had not suffered for
his name sake, ye had now been
dead unto the Lord.
240 Wherefore I speak this
unto you who deliberate whether
ye should confess or deny him;
confess that ye have the Lord for
your God; lest at any time de
nying him, , ye be delivered not
into bonds. -
241 For if all nations punish
their servants which deny their
masters; what think you that the
Lord will do unto you, who has
the power of all things?
242 Remove therefore out of
your hearts these doubts, that ye
may live for ever unto God.
243 As for the twelfth moun
tain, which was white, they are
such as have believed like sincere
children, into whose thoughts there
never came any malice, nor have
they ever known what sin was,
but have always continued in their
integrity.
244 Wherefore this kind of men
shall without all doubt inherit
the kingdom of God; because
they have never in any thing de
filed the commandments of God,
but have continued with sincerity
260
militant
in the same condition all the days
of their life.
245 Whosoever therefore, said
he, shall continue as children
without malice; shall be more
honourable than all those of whom
I have yet spoken : for all such
children are honoured by the
Lord, and esteemed the first of
all.
246 Happy therefore are ye
who shall remove all malice from
you, and put on innocence ; be
cause ye shall first see the Lord.
247 And after he had thus
ended his explication of all the
nrountains, I said unto him, Sir,
show me now also what concerns
the stones that were brought out of
the plain, and put into the tower
in the room of those that were
rejected:
248 As also concerning those
round stones which were added
into the building of the tower;
and also of those who still con
tinued round.
249 "I Hear now, says he, con
cerning those stones which were
brought out of the plain into the
building of the tower, and placed
in the room of those that were
rejected: they are the roots of
that white mountain.
250 Wherefore because those
who have believed of that moun
tain, were very innocent; the lord
of this tower commanded that they
which were of the roots of this
mountain should beplaced into the
building.
251 For he knew that if they
were put into this building they
would continue bright; nor would
any of them any more be made
black.
252 But if he had added on
this manner from the rest of the
mountains, he would "almost have
* MS. Lamb. Tantum non necesse hahuisset
turris hujus.
SIMILITUDE IX. and triumphant.
needed again to visit the tower
and to cleanse it.
253 Now all these white stones
are the young men who have be
lieved, or shall believe ; for they
are all of the same kind. Happy
is this kind, because it is inno
cent.
254 Hear now also concerning
those round and bright stones: all
these are of this white mountain.
But they are therefore found
round, because their riches have
a little darkened them from the
truth and dazzled their eyes:
255 Howbeit they have never
departed from the Lord, nor has
any wicked word proceeded out
of their mouths; but all righteous
ness, and virtue, and truth.
256 When therefore the Lord
saw their mind, and that they
might adorn the truth ; he com
manded that they should continue
good, and that their riches should
be pared away :
257 For he would not hare
them taken wholly away, to the
end they might do some good
with that which was left, and live
unto God; because they also ar
of a good kind.
258 Therefore was there a little
cut off from them, and so they
were put into the building of this
tower.
259 || As for the rest which
continued still round, and were
not found fit for the building "of
this tower, because they have not
yet received the seal; they wele
carried back to their place, be.
cause they where found very
round.
260 But this present world must
be cut away from them, and the
vanities of their riches; and then
they will be fit for the kingdom of
God. For they must enter into
* MS. Lamb. Structuram.
261
Of the mysteries
the kingdom of God, because God
has blessed this innocent kind.
261 Of this kind therefore none
shall fall away; for though any of
them being tempted by the devil
should offend, he shall soon return
to his Lord God.
262 I the angel of repentance
esteem you happy, whosoever are
innocent as little children, because
your portion is good and honour
able with the Lord.
263 And I say unto all you
who have received this seal; keep
simplicity, and remembernot the
offences which are committed
against you, nor continue in ma
lice, or in bitterness, through the
memory of offences.
264 1. But become one spirit,
and provide remedies for these
evil rents, and remove them from
you; that the lord of the sheep
may rejoice at it; * for he will
rejoice, if he shall find all whole.
265 But if any of these sheep
shall be found scattered away, Wo
shall be to the shepherds; but and
if the shepherds themselves shall
be scattered; what will they an
swer to “the lord of the sheep
told Will they say that they
were troubled by the sheep But
they shall not be believed.
266 For it is an incredible thing
that the shepherd should suffer by
his flock; and he shall be the more
punished for his lie.
267 Now I am the shepherd;
and especially must give an ac
tount of you.
268 "I Wherefore take care of
yourselves whilst the tower is
yet building. The Lord dwells in
those that love peace; for peace
is beloved; but he is far off from
III. HERMAS. of the church
the contentious, and those who
are "full of malice.
269 Wherefore restore unto him
the spirit entire, as ye received it.
* For if thou shalt give unto a
fuller a garment new and whole,
thou wilt expect to receive it whole
again; if therefore the fuller shall
restore it unto thee torn, wouldst
thou receive it !
270 Wouldst thou not presently
be angry; and reproach him, say
ing; I gave my garment to thee
whole ; why hast thou rent it, and
made it useless to me? Now it is
of no use to me, by reason of the
rent which thou hast made in it.
Wouldst thou not say all this to a
fuller, for the rent which he made
in thy garment?
271 If therefore thou wouldst
be concerned for thy garment,
and complain that thou hadst not
received it whole; what thinkest
thou that the Lord will do, who
gave his Spirit to thee entire, and
thou hast rendered him altogether
unprofitable, so that he can be of
no use unto his Lord For being
corrupted by thee, he is no longer
profitable to him.
272 Will not therefore the Lord
do the same concerning his Spirit,
by reason of thy deed Undoubt
edly, said I, he will do the same
to all those whom he shall find to
continue in the remembrance of
injuries.
273 Tread not then under foot
he said, his mercy; but rather
honour him, because he is so pa.
tient with respect to your offences,
and not like one of you; but re.
pent, for that will be profitable
for you.
274 T All these things which
*MS. Lamb. Etunum quemgue spiritum fleri: which appears from the Gr.
of Antiochus to be the true reading, kyyeved6x ev. Twevaa. * MS. Lamb.
Gaudeat de his; and Gr. Antioch xapm ºn avro. *Wid. Antioch. Hom. cxxii.
*Gr. To bearmorm row mouviov. “Perditis malitia. Lat. "Antioch. Hom. xciv.
269
Of repentance
are above written, I the shepherd,
the angel of repentance, have
shown and spoken to the servants
of God.
275 If therefore ye shall believe
and hearken to these words, and
shall walk in them, and shall cor
rect your ways, ye shall live.
But if ye shall continue in malice,
and in the remembrance of inju
ries, no such sinners shall live
unto God.
276 All these things which were
to be spoken by me I have thus
delivered unto you. Then the
shepherd said unto me, Hast thou
asked all things of me? I answered,
Sir, I have.
277 Why, then, said he, hast
thou not asked concerning the
spaces of these stones that were
put in the building, that I may ex
plain that also unto thee! I an
swered, Sir, I forgot it. Hear, then,
said he, concerning these also.
278 They are those who have
now heard these commands, and
have repented with all their hearts;
279 And when the Lord saw
that their repentance was good and
pure, and that they could continue
in it, he commanded their former
sins to be blotted out. For these
spaces were their sins, and they
are therefore made even that they
might not appear.
SIMILITUDE X.
Of Repentance and alms-deeds.
FTER that I had written
this book, the angel which
had delivered me to that shep
herd, came into the house where
I was and sat upon the bed, and
that shepherd stood at his right
hand.
2 Then he called me and said
unto me; I delivered thee and
thy house to this shepherd, that
SIMILITUDE X.
* Lat. Maturitateln. * President.
and alms deeds.
thou mightestbe protected by him.
I said, Yes, Lord.
3 If therefore, said he, thou
wilt be protected from all vexa
tions and from all cruelty, and
have success in every good word
and work; and have all virtue
and righteousness; walk in those
commands which he has given
thee, and thou shalt have dominion
over all sin.
4 For if thou keepest those
commands, all the lust and plea
sure of this present world shall be
subject to thee; and success shall
follow thee in every good under
taking.
5 Take therefore his "gravity
and modesty towards thee, and say
unto all, that he is in great honour
and renown with God, and is a
* prince of great authority and
powerful in his office.
6 To him only is the power of
repentance committed throughout
the whole world. Does he not
seem to thee to be of great au
thority ?
7 But ye despise his goodness,
and the modesty which he shews
towards you.
8 * I said unto him ; Sir, ask
him since the time that he came
into my house whether I have
done any thing disorderly, or
have offended him in anything?
9 I know, said he, that thou
hast done nothing disorderly,
neither wilt thou hereafter do
any such thing; and therefore I
speak these things with thee that
thou mayest persevere; for he has
given me a good account concern
ing thee,
10 But thou shalt speak these
things to others, that they who
either have repented, or shall re
pent, * may be like-minded with
thee ; and he may give me as
* Eadam quae tu sentiant.
263
Of repentance
good on account of them also, and
I may do the same unto the Lord.
11 I answered; Sir, I declare
to all men the wonderful works of
God; and I hope that all who love
them and have before sinned,
when they shall hear these things,
will repent, and recover life.
12 Continue therefore, said he,
in this ministry, and fulfil it. And
whosoever shall do according to
the commands of this shepherd,
he shall live; and shall have great
honour both here and with the
Lord.
13 But they that shall not keep
his commands, flee from their life,
and are adversaries to it. And
they that follow not his commands,
shall deliverthemselves unto death,
and shall be every one guilty of
his own blood.
14 But I say unto thee, keep
these commandments, and thou
shalt find a cure for all thy sins.
15 °ſ Moreover, I have sent
* these virgins to dwell with thee;
for I have seen that they are very
kind to thee. Thou shalt there.
fore have them for thy helpers,
that thou mayest the better keep
the commands which he hath given
thee; for these commands cannot
be kept without these virgins.
16 And * I see how they are
willing to be with thee; and I will
also command them that they shall
not all depart from thy house
17 Only do thou purify thy
house, for they will readily dwell
in a clean house. For they are
clean and chaste, and industrious;
and all of them have grace with
the Lord.
18 If therefore, thou shalt have
thy house pure, they will abide
with thee. But if it shall be never
so little polluted, they will imme.
III. HERMAS. and alms deeds
diately depart from thy house: for
these virgins cannot endure any
manner of pollution.
19 I said unto him; Sir, I hope
that I shall so please them, that
they shall always delight to dwell
in my house. And as he to whom
you have committed me, makes no
complaint of me ; so neither shall
they complain.
20 Then he said to that shep
herd: I see that the servant of God
will live and keep these command.
ments, and place these virgins in
a pure habitation.
21 When he had said this, he
delivered me again to that shep.
herd, and called the virgins, and
said unto them ; forasmuch as l
see that ye will readily dwell in
this man's house, I commend him
and his house to you, that ye may
not at all depart from his house.
And they willingly heard these
words.
22 * Then he said unto me,
Go on manfully in thy ministry ;
declare to all men the great things
of God, and thou shalt find grace
in this ministry.
23 And whosoever shall walk
in these commands, shall live, and
be happy in his life. But he that
shall neglect them, shall not live,
and shall be unhappy in his life.
24 Say unto all that whosoever
can do well, cease not to exercise
themselves in good works, for it
is profitable unto them. For I
° would that all men should be de
livered from the inconveniences
they lie under.
25 For he that wants, and suf.
fers inconveniences in his daily
life, is in great torment and neces
sity. Whosoever therefore deli
vers such a soul from necessity,
gets great joy unto himself.
1 What is meant by these virgins?—See before, Simil. ix. v. 149 et seq.
*MS. Lamb. Video: which appears from the close ofthissection to be the true
reading. *Say.
264
Of repentance
26 For he that is grieved with
such inconveniences is equally
tormented, as if he were in chains.
And many upon the account of
such calamities, being not able to
bear them, have chosen even to
destroy themselves.
27 He therefore that knows the
calamity of such a man, and does
not free him from it, commits a
great sin, and is guilty of his
blood.
28 Wherefore exercise your
selves in good works, as many as
have received ability from the
Lord ; lest whilst ye delay to do
SIMILITUDE X. and alma weeds.
them, the building of the tower be
finished; because for your sakes
the building is stopped
29 Except therefore ye shall
make haste to do well, the tower
shall be finished, and ye shall be
shut out of it.
30 Andafterhe hadthusspoken
with me, he rose up from the bed
and departed, taking the shepherd
and virgins with him.
31 Howbeit he said unto me
that he would send back the shep.
herd and virgins unto my house
Amen.
THE END
OF THE APOCRYPHAL NEW TESTAMENT,
TABLE I.
A LIST of all the Apocryphal Pieces not now extant, mentioned by
Writers in the first four Centuries of Christ, with the several Works
wherein they are cited or noticed.
A
1. THE ACTs of ANDREw. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. l. 3 c. 25. Philastr.
Haeres. 87. Epiphan. Hoeres. 47 § 1. Habres. 61. § l. et Haeres. 63.
§ 2. Gelas. in Decret. apud. Concil. Sanct. tom. 4. p. 1260.
2. Books under the name of ANDREw. August. contr. Adversar.
Leg. et Prophet. l. c. 20. et Innocent I. Epis. 3. ad Ecuper. Tholos.
Episc. § 7.
3. The Gospel of ANDREw. Gelas. in Decret.
A Gospel under the name of APELLEs. Hieron. Praefat. in Cont
ment. in Matt.
The Gospel according to the Twelve ApostLEs. Origen. Homil. in
Luc. i. 1. Ambros. Comment. in Luc. i. l. et Hieron. Praefat. in Com
ment. in Matt.
B
The Gospel of BarºnABAs. Gelas. in Decret.
1. The Writings of BARTHOLOMEw the Apostle. Dionys. Areopa
git. de Theol. Myst. c. 1.
2. The Gospel of BARTHOLOMEw. Hieron Catul. Script. Eccles. in
Pantaen. et Praefat. in Comm. in Matt. Gelas. in Decret.
The Gospel of BASILIDEs. Orig. in Luc. i. 1. Ambros. in Luc. i. 1.
Hieron. Praefat. in Comm. in Matt.
O
1. The Gospel of CERINTHUs. Epiphan. Haeres. 51. § 7.
2. The Revelation of CERINTHUs. Caias Presb. Romn. lib. Disput.
apud Fuseb. Hist. Eccl. l. 3. c. 28.
1. An Epistle of CHRIST to Peter and Paul. August. de Consens.
Evang. l. l. c. 9 19.
2. Some other Iłooks under the name of CHRIST. Ibid. c. 3.
3. An Epistle of CHRIST, produced by the Manichees. August
contr. Faust, l. 28. c. 4.
4. A Hymn, which CHRIST taught his Disciples. Epis. ad Ceret
Episc.
R
The Gospel according to the Egyptians. Clem. Alez. Strom. l. 3.
p. 452, 465. Origen. in Luc. ill. Hieror. Praef. in Comm. in Matt
Epiphan. Haeres. 62 S. 2.
The Acts of the APOSTLEs, made use of by the EBIONITEs. Epi.
phan. Haeres. 30. § 16.
The Gospel of the EBIONITEs. Epiphan. Hoeres. 30. §. 13.
The Gospel of the ENCRATITEs. Epiphan. Haeres. 46. 1.
The Gospel of EvK. Epiphan. Haeres. 26. §. 2.
H
The Gospel according to the HEBREws. Hegesipp. lib. Comment.
apul Euseb. Hist. Eccl. l. c. 22. Clem. Alez. Strom. l. 2. p. 380
Origen. Tract. 8. in Matt. xix. 19. et l 2, Joan. p. 58. Euseb. Hist
Eccl. l. 3. c. 25, 27, et 39. Jerome in many places, as above.
266
The Lost Apocryphal Books.
The Book of the HELKESAITEs. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. 1. 6. c. 38.
The false Gospels of HESYCHIUs. Hieron. Praefat, in Evang. ud
Dumas. Gelas. in Decret.
J
The Book of JAMEs. Origen. Comm. in Mat. xiii. 55, 56.
Books forged and published under the name of JAMEs. Epiphan.
Haeres. 30. § 23. Innocent I. Epist. 3. ad Ecuper. Tholos. Episc. § 7.
1. The Acts of John. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. l. 3. c. 25. Athanas. in
Synops. $ 76. Philastr. Haeres. 87. Epiphan. Haeres. 47. S. l. August.
contr. Advers. Leg. l. l. c. 20.
2. Books under the name of John. Epiphan. Haeres. 30. §. 23.
et Innocent I. ibid.
A Gospel under the name of JUDE. Epiphan. Haeres. 38. § 1.
A Gospel under the name of JUDAs IscARIOT. Iren. advers. Haeres
l. 1. c. 35.
L
The Acts of the Apostles by LEUCIUs. August. lib. de Fide contr.
Manich. c. 38.
The Acts of the Apostles by LENTITIUs. August. de Act. cum Falic.
Munich. l. 2. c. 6.
The Books of LENTITIUs. Gelas. in Decret.
The Acts under the Apostles' name by LEONTIUs. August. de Fide.
contr. Manich. c. 5.
The Acts of the Apostles by LEUTHON. Hieron. Epist. ad Chromat.
et Heliodor.
The false Gospels, published by LUCLANUs. Hieron. Praefat, in
Evang. ad Damas.
M
The Acts of the Apostles used by the MANICHEEs. August. lib.
cont. Adimant Manich. c. 17.
The Gospel of MARCION. Tertull. adv. Marcion. lib. 4. c. 2. et 4.
Epiphan. Haeres. 42. Praem.
Books under the name of MATTHEw. Epiphan. Haeres. 30. S. 23.
1. The Gospel of MATTHIAs. Orig. Comm. in Luc. i.l. Euseb. Hist
Fºccl. l. 3. c. 25. Ambros. in Luc. i. l. Hieron. Praefat. in Comment.
in Matt.
2. The Traditions of MATTHIAs. Clem. Alez. Strom. l. 2. p. 380.
L 3. p. 436. et l. 7. p. 748.
3. A Book under the name of MATTHIAs. Innocent I. ibid.
The Gospel of MERINTHUs. Epiphan. Haeres. 51. $ 7.
N
The Gospel according to the NAZARENEs. See above concerning
the Gospel according to the Hebrews.
P
1. The Acts of PAUL and THECLA. Tertull. de Baptism. c. 17.
Hieron. Catal. Script. Eccl. in Luc. Gelas. in Decret.
2. The Acts of PAUL. Orig. de Princip. l. 1. c. 2. et l. 21. in Joan.
tom. 2. p. 298. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. 1. 3. c. 3. et 25. Philastr. Heres. 87.
3. The Preaching of PAUL (and PETER). Lactant. de Ver. Sap. l. 4.
c. 21. Script, anonym. ad calcem Opp. Cypr., and, according to some,
Clem. Alcz. Strom. l. 6. p. 636. 267
The Lost Apocryphal Books.
4. A Book under the name of PAUL. Cyprian. Epist. 27.
5. The Revelation of Paul. Epiphan. Haeres. 38. §. 2 August.
Tract. 98. in Joann. in fin. Gelas. in Decret.
The Gospel of PERFECTION. Epiphan. Haeres. 26. §. 2.
1. The Acts of PETER. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. l. 3. c. 3. Athanas in
Synops. S. Scriptur. §. 76. Philastr. Haeres. 87. Hieron. Catal. Script.
Eccl. in Petr. Epiphan. Haeres. 30 S. 15.
2. The Doctrine of PETER. Orig. Praem. in lib. de Princip.
3. The Gospel of PETER. Scrap. lib. de Evang. Petri., apud. Euseb.
Hist. Eccl. l. 6. c. 12. Tertull. adv. Marc. l. 4. c. 5. Orig. Comment.
in Matt. xiii. 55, 56, tom. i. p. 223. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. l. 3. c. 3. st
25. Hieron. Catal. Script. Eccles. in Petr.
4. The Judgment of PETER. Ruffin. Exposit. in Symbol. Apostol. §
36. Hieron. Catal. Script. Eccles. in Petr.
5. The Preaching of PETER. Heracl. apud. Orig. l. 14 in Joan.
Clem. Alec. Strom. l. 1. p. 357. l. 2. p. 390. l. 6. p. 635, 636, et 678.
Theodot. Byzant. in Excerpt. p. 899. ad calc. Opp. Clem. Alez. Lactant.
de Ver. Sap. l. 4. c. 21. Euseb. Hist. Eccles. l. 3. c. 3. et Hieron. Catal.
Script. Eccl. in Petr.
6. The Revelation of PETER. Clem. Alex. lib. Hypotypos. apud.
Euseb. Hist. Eccl. 1.6. c. 14. Theodot. Byzant. in Eccerpt. p. 806,
807. ad. calc. Opp. Clem. Alex. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. 1. 3. c. 3. et 25.
Hieron. Catal. Script. Eccl. in Petr.
7. Books under the name of PETER. Innocent. I. Epist. 3. ad Ea.
uper. Tholos. Epist. §. 7.
1. The Acts of PHILIP. Gelas. in Decret.
2. The Gospel of PHILIP. Epiphan. Hueres. 26 S. 13.
S
The Gospel of SoYTHIANUs. Cyrill. Catech. VI. S. 22. et Epiphan.
Haeres. 66, §. 2.
The Acts of the Apostles by SELEUCUs. Hieron. Epist. ad Chromat.
* Heliodor.
The Revelation of STEPHEN. Gelus. in Decret.
T
The Gospel of TITAN. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. 1. 4. c. 29.
The Gospel of THADDAEUs. Gelas. in Decret.
The Catholic Epistle of THEMISON the Montanist. Apollon. lib
cont. Cataphryg. apud. Euseb. Hist. Eccl. l. 5. c. 18.
1. The Acts of THOMAs. Epiphan. Haeres. 47. § 1. et 61. § 1.
Athanas. in Synops. S. Script. § 76. et Gelas in Decret.
2. The Gospel of THOMAs. Orig. in Luc. i. L. Euseb. Hist. Eccl.
l. 3. c. 25. Cyrill. Catech. IV. §. 36. et Catech. VI. §. 31. Ambros.
in. Luc. i. l. Athan. in Synops. S. Script. §. 76. Hieron. Prºf. in
Comment. in Matth. Gelas. in Decret.
3. The Revelation of THOMAs. Gelas. in Decret.
4. Books under the name of THOMAs. Innocent I. Epist. 8. ad
Ecuper. Tholos. Episc. § 7.
The Gospel of TRUTH made use of by the Valentinians. Iren. adv.
Haeres. l. 3. c. 11.
V -
The Gospel of VALENTINUs. Tartull. de Praescript. adv. Haeret. c. 49.
268
TABLE II.
A LIST of the Christian Authors of the first four Centuries,
whose Writings contain Catalogues of the Books of the New
Testament.
*...* Those which also have Catalogues of the Books of the Old Testament,
are marked thus *.
dence his zeal
about the sacred
writings, and
his great care to
be informed
which were ge
nuine and which
110t.
a';
#5. The variation or Agreement The Places of their
The Names of the # * of their Catalogues with Writings, in which
Writers. 32 ours now received. these Catalogued
É are.
8:
I. A.C.
*ORIGEN, a Pres- 210. Omits the Epistles ofComment in Matt.
byter of Alex- James and Jude, apud Euseb.
andria, who em- though he owns them. Hist. Eccl. l. 6.
ployed incredi- both in other parts of c. 25. Exposit.
ble pains in his writings. in Joan. l. 5.
knowing the apud Euseb.
Scriptures. ibid.
r II.
|iº,USEBIUS PAM- 315. His Catalogue is ex-Hist. Eccl. l. 3. c.
PHILUs, whose actly the same with 55. confer ejus
writings evi- the modern one; only dem lib. b. 3.
he says, the Epistles
of James, Jude, the
2nd of Peter, the 2nd
and 3rd of John,
though they were ge
nerally received, yet
had been by some
doubted of. As to the
Revelations,
it, yet he says other
received it ; and him
self places it among
thoug
he says some rejecte
received without dis
pute.
those which are to bel
269
The Names of the
ſi
The variation or Agreement
of their Catalogues with
The Places of their
Writings, in which
| Writers. ours now received. these Catalogues
| al‘e.
III. A.C.
*ATHANASIUs, Bp. 315. The same perfectly with Fragment. Epist.
of Alexandria. ours now received. Festal. et in Sy
nops. Scriptur.
Sacr.
IV.
*CYRIL, Bp. of 340. The same with ours, Catech. IV. § 36.
Jerusalem. only the Revelation is
omitted.
V.
*The Bishops as: 364. The Revelation is omit-Canon. LX.
sembled in the + ted.
Council of Lao- N.B. The Canons of
dicea. this Council were
not long afterwards
received into th
body of the &n:
of the universal
Church.
VI.
Epiphanius, Bp. 370. The same with ours now Haeres. 76, c. 5.
of Salamis in received.
Cyprus.
VII.
GREGoRY NAZI- 375. Omits the Revelation. Carm. de verix et
ANZEN, Bp. of genuin. Scriptur.
Constantinople.
VIII.
PHILASTRIUS, Bp. 380. The same with ours now|Lib. de Hºres. 87
of Brixia in Ve
nice.
received; except that
he mentions only thir
teen of St. Paul's
Epistles(omitting very
probably the Epistle
to the Hebrews), and
leaves out the Reve
lation.
+ The Papists generally place this Council before the Council of Nice.
270
author of the
works under the
name of DIONY
SIUs the Areopa
gite.
agree with ours; for
though he doth not,
for good reasons, pro
duce the names of the
books; yet (as the
learned Daille says,
De Script. supposit.
Doings. 1. l. c. 16)
he so clearly describes
them as that he has
left out no divine
book, may be easily
perceived.
a?
#5, The variation or Agreement|The Places of their
The Names of the # of their Catalogues with Writings, in which
Writers. of: ours now received. these Catalogues
É are.
B:
IX. A. C.
*JEROME. 382. The same with ours;|Ep. ad Paulin.
except that he speaks de Stud. Scrip.
dubiously of the E-| Also commonly
pist. to the Hebrews; prefixed to the
though in other parts. Latin Vulgate.
of his writings he re
ceives it as Canonical,
as hereafter will ap
pear.
X.
*RUFFIN, Pres: 390. It perfectly agrees with Papos. in Symb.
byter of Aquile- OurS. Apostol. § 36.
gium. int. Op. Hieror.
et inter Op. Cypr.
XI.
* AUSTIN, Bp. of 394. It perfectly agrees with De Doct. Christ.
Hippo in Africa. OurS. l. 2. c. 8.
XII. |
* The forty-four , St. It perfectly agrees with Vid. Canon. |
Bps. assembled Austin ours. XLVII.
in the third| Was et cap. ult.
Council of Car- pres
thage. ent
at it.
XIII.
The anonymons 390. It seems perfectly to Lib. de Hierarch
Eccl. c. 3.
THE END.
271
