{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brandy_l_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Brandy L Possible NDE 5020","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brandy L Possible NDE 5020  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brandy L Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2596 Brandy L Possible NDE 5020  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I lay on my bed, knowing that physically something was not right with me. I was bleeding but pregnant. As I lay, I was meditating to calm myself. Suddenly I saw 'me' lying on the bed but 'I' was above my sleeping body with a thin thread of golden light attached between my body and me. I floated upwards and found myself drawn to a great white light. I floated towards the light; I was welcomed by beings of light, I felt unconditional love, no pain, hardships or worries, I was bounced gently (as a floating balloon) in to the Light, where I heard a voice (male) who told me 'It's not yet time, you must go back, your work is not yet done.' The next moment, I was back, with a slight jolt feeling and opened my eyes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   Ectopic pregnancy, a walking time bomb, the doctor said.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Through it all I was aware.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Through it all I was aware.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No sense of time or space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brighter, sharper, stronger.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clearer, sharper, precise, firm.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I felt I knew them, I could not see their faces, they had forms of humans but we communicated by feelings/telepathy, they were many.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Unconditional love, no pain or worries, peace, warmth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Islam

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do more to achieve a greater balance in my life.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Islam

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do more to achieve a greater balance in my life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more patient. I have more forgiveness. I am more sensitive to many emotions and vibrations in people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because it was emotional, calm, peace, warmth, unconditional love, the feelings were deep.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the voice telling me to go back was the same one I had heard before when I was conscious in holy places I had visited. That the Light was my home.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I talked about it soon enough and it did not bother anyone, as people understand me as a woman with faith.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The feelings have never left me and the memory is indelibly imprinted in my life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have been more enhanced spiritually by the event as I was probably psychic or gifted before it and after the NDE my approach to life is different as is my approach to religion and spirituality. My approach to death as well has changed. I am unafraid of anything and work hard to be able to make sure that I return to that place I glimpsed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It has widened my sphere of knowledge to know things, to be a better person with a mission of helping those less fortunate, to be stronger to accept the difficulties and to come through everything with huge faith and love.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brandy_l_possible_nde.html