{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brandy_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Brandy F NDE 2366","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brandy F NDE 2366  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brandy F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						691  Brandy F NDE  2366  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

This all happened before I even knew about near death experiences. My father never took us to church. The only prayer I knew was the one we did in school at the starting of class in the morning. At that time, we had to pray in school. I knew about Jesus because in Hungary, he was the one that brought gifts on Christmas Eve and I learned in school that he was crucified on the cross on Good Friday. My parents said we were catholic. I never studied any religion until I left home at seventeen.

Let's start with my experience from the dark tunnel. I was in this tunnel with a bright light at the end with these dark inhuman creatures trying to grab me while I was speeding towards the light. I don't know whether I was running or floating. All I know was that I was going very fast and this voice from the light was telling me to hurry to get away from these creatures and I was terrified. When I got through into the light this voice from another light was trying to comfort me by saying everything was all right now. I followed the voice up farther and went through a brighter light and I felt I was closer to the voice. Ahead of me, I saw an even brighter light. As I tried to go through it, I was told I wasn't ready to go though there yet. I was told that I had the freedom to stay there or go back to my body. I remember my future was shown to me. My two brothers who weren't born yet were shown to me. One was born when I was fifteen and another was born at when I was seventeen. My son was also shown to me. He was born when I was twenty-two. After this, I was sent back to a room where the doctor was working on me. I was looking down on me while it looked like he was hitting my chest. He kept going and going and I never thought he would stop. He finally stopped and told the nurse that he was going to tell my parents that I was gone. When he said that I thought to myself, 'Oh no I'm not,' and I went into my body and I must have taken a deep enough breathe that the nurse heard it and called the doctor back. After that, I did not see anything. The doctor told me I was in a coma for three days after that. He told me that they thought they lost me and he was glad I was alive. When I told him that they did lose me he turned as white as a sheet.

When my son was about a year old, my mother-in-law took him, got him a red outfit, and dressed him up in it to surprise me. As soon as I saw him this dΘjα vu hit me and I remember that that was the outfit he had on when I was shown my future while I was out of my body. When I first met my husband, I knew he was the one right away. This was before I even met him. Some friends introduced him to me three weeks after I saw him. I can't remember any of my future until it happens.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 1963  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was in a coma which turned out to be type 1 or juvenile diabetes.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My consciousness and alertness was really high throughout the whole experience. Of course my memory has always been strong.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     I did seem to move through the dark tunnel real fast.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     After my experience I see and feel auras.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through a tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Dark inhuman and scary creatures. In the light I just heard a voice surrounded by light.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw three different densities of light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     Is this before my experience or after?I did go into a beautiful meadow and I use that scene when I meditate.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt a joy that I have never been able to experience again.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I know now that death is not the end so now I want to take everything I learned with me. I hunger to learn all I can while I'm here. I do remember being born.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I do sense when something is about to happen or after it happens I know that I saw it happen. I did dream about the things happening in Guatemala a about week before it did and the terrorist bombing in Bali. Many times I do close myself off from it if it's nothing I can do about it. Most of the times it comes to me through dreams or a feeling that I need to translate.  One example. When hurricane Katrina was about to hit New Orleans I know the people in the Astrodome where going to be cut off from oxygen if the electricity went out because the place was air-tight. So I got together with people to have part of the roof blown off so they could get air in there. It worked because the electricity went out just after some of the roof got blown off.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know that the Bible or any religion is only five percent right. Before I had the experience, I thought I was a sinner and thought I was going to go to hell (laughing). Now I know I'm the only one that can judge myself. In my opinion of what I learned the second coming is going to happen because of science etc. it is going to happen because the earth is going to change real drastically is that it's going to flip its axis. Things are happening because it is meant to like global warming. We don't have anything to do with that. At least not too much.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know that the Bible or any religion is only five percent right. Before I had the experience, I thought I was a sinner and thought I was going to go to hell (laughing). Now I know I'm the only one that can judge myself. In my opinion of what I learned the second coming is going to happen because of science etc. it is going to happen because the earth is going to change real drastically is that it's going to flip its axis. Things are happening because it is meant to like global warming. We don't have anything to do with that. At least not too much.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Things didn't seem right on earth. After that, I read the Bible and knew it was either wrong or had been changed a lot. Maybe five percent could be right. In my opinion, Christ did not come here to die for us. He came here to teach us the truth and that's why he was crucified.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain That was over forty-two years ago so it's hard to know whether my relationships became what they are because of that experience or not. We all change no matter what happens in our life. I know because of that I'm more understanding and love more unconditionally. Maybe because of that I have studied psychology a lot.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was only thirteen years old when this happened. At that age how does a person know what is natural. When I was younger, I would tell someone that something was going to happen and it did. I was always told not to talk like that.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Since then I have never been afraid of death. When I was really sick I was terrified of death. Also with the experience in the tunnel I have never been able to stay in complete darkness where I'm blocked in and not free to run if I had to escape.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared some of it with my mother about her having two boys. I did tell my husband about knowing he was the one after I've known him for a while. He told me I was crazy. When our son was born, he was born with dark hair and I told my husband he was supposed to have blond hair because I was shown him with blond hair and he laughed at me. He lost his baby hair and he had blond hair after that.  I have shared the whole experience with an old friend and people that told me they've had it. I don't freely share it with everybody because I don't want to be put in a strait jacket (laughing).  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When I told people about it they told me it was only a dream but I felt it was more than that. For one thing, if it was just a dream I would never have remembered everything that happened after so many years. I did study about comas and the mind and you can't dream when your mind is in the coma level. When a person is dying and tossing and turning it isn't because they are in pain. It is because they are fighting for life. You don't feel pain when you're in a coma.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have studied this ever since I found available information about this and the more I learn the more it feels real. Some people have almost convince me it was a dream but I know I've never ever had dreams like that. As far as I know, nobody can dream that clearly. Dreams are just too vague.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I just wish I could get people to believe that death is not the end and we don't just have a body. We also have a soul and we need to accept all of us the same and love each other unconditionally. We don't need to be afraid to die. We just go into another dimension that we are ready for. Maybe we don't really die. Our soul just goes into another dimension?  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Have a site where people can post about their NDE experiences. I'm sure a lot of people would like that. I know not too many people can discuss it with just anybody.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brandy_f_nde.html