{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brandelyn_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Brandelyn W NDE 2238","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brandelyn W NDE 2238  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brandelyn W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						627  Brandelyn W NDE  2238  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I suddenly found myself in a field full of wild flowers. There were also rolling hills. There was bright light everywhere, but I didn't see a source of the light. I ran through the field in extreme happiness. Up ahead I saw a fence. The fence was made of wood logs. They were thick poles that held up two rows of wood. The bottom row was about eighteen feet off the ground, but it was hard to tell because the grass and flowers came up from the ground almost a foot. The second row of wood was about eighteen feet above the bottom row. It expanded as far as I could see. I recall thinking, 'I have to get over that fence.' However, I thoroughly enjoyed the time it took to get there. I was filled with joy, peace, and contentment.

When I arrived at the fence, I started climbing over it. I was halfway across when I felt a touch on my shoulder. I looked to see who touched me (I wasn't frightened at all) and I saw who I thought was Jesus Christ. My family didn't attend church, but somehow I knew I was looking at Jesus. He didn't have an human body and he didn't look like an angel. It was more like a spiritual being. He told me, 'You can't come yet.' I asked him why. Everything about me wanted to be over that fence. I was actually sitting on the top row with one leg on either side. I needed to experience what was across the fence. It looked the same, but it felt different. It was even better than the wonderful feelings I experienced running through the field to get there. I said, 'Please let me come to the other side.' Jesus was kind but quite firm when he said, 'No, Brandy, you must go back. There is much for you to do.'

Suddenly, I was back in my body in the emergency room. I remained in a coma for about three weeks. When I woke up, I asked for a Bible.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 2, 1978  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was in a motorcycle accident. I wasn't wearing a helmet. According to the doctors and my family, they lost me for a few minutes in the emergency room.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was very different. I ceased being twelve years old for those moments. My thoughts and alertness far surpass what I am capable as an educated thirty-nine year old woman. It wasn't the same as the consciousness I've experienced since I came back.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was talking to Jesus.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Time had no relevance.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see much further. What I could see was considerably brighter. Smells were intensified incredibly. My depth perception was different. There were more than three dimensions. The flowers, grass, and fence were solid. Jesus was transparent, but I couldn't see through him. He was more like different types of clear white.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The clarity was much better. Sounds didn't seem to enter my ear, they went through my body.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus was on the other side of the fence. Somehow, I did know him. He communicated love and acceptance even though he didn't let me join him. I felt very special in his presence.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was all around me. It was warm, but it didn't burn.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     There was another dimension.  Describing it is difficult.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, joy, peace, contentment, excitement. I did feel frustration and disappointment when Jesus wouldn't let me cross the fence.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know this experience is why I choose a life of servant hood. This hasn't made life any easier, but I don't regret my decision to serve God.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know this experience is why I choose a life of servant hood. This hasn't made life any easier, but I don't regret my decision to serve God.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I understood that there is more to life and death than what we can see and experience on a daily basis. I understood that I had a purpose not yet achieved.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It's hard to communicate because I generally feel people won't believe my experience.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many times, I have the ability to see things in dreams, visions, or I sense things about people.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Now, I feel blessed to have a personal encounter with Jesus. It's odd because I still have a strong sense I haven't accomplished my purpose. Sometimes, I really wonder why I had to come back. I REALLY wanted to stay.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience when I came out of the coma. The response was not very positive so I quit talking about it for about fifteen years. Then, I shared my experience with a few trusted friends who've encouraged me to tell others. I still avoid conversations unless it's clear my sharing can help someone. I usually keep this to myself.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was very real. I openly shared how real it was until people shut me down. I felt that I need to tell people what happened to me. I was quite surprised at their response. To me, it was like relating any other event in my life.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's been twenty-seven years since my experience. I can remember what happened like it happened today. I woke up with a desire to know about God and Jesus that has not left me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       For all these years I have avoided anything to do with NDEs. I don't read books about it and I haven't researched it in any way. I don't want to be accused of making this up. Recently, I've allowed myself to watch a couple programs about it. While some of the experiences are different from mine, I've been amazed at how similar the experiences can be. I feel like writing this down and presenting it to this research project somehow will offer me freedom from the isolation I feel from this experience.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       How does a person feel about having this experience? Does it make him/her feel a sense of responsibility to others or his/her selves?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brandelyn_w_nde.html