{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1brad_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Brad M Probable NDE 6101","mylang":"de"}
          	        Brad M Probable NDE 6101  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Brad M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2879 Brad M Probable NDE 6101  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was taken to hospital, I had a bad cold. The nurse wouldn't give me a blanket and I was shivering. It was winter, and they said I had to stay overnight. They didn't understand my high temperature, then low temperature situation. The nurse thought a blanket would make it worse - that it was some sort of virus and fresh air would help me. They placed me in a large dim room, placed me in a bed near a window and she opened the window.

After Mom and Dad went home, it got cold, really cold. No one could hear me. I saw the snowflakes falling on the sill, blowing occasionally onto my face. Soon my voice wouldn't work anymore, but the bitter cold numbed me. The only things there were the dark room, the snowflakes, and me.

Suddenly a large angel appeared. He spoke to my mind, and I could understand, just like an adult. He asked me if I wanted to leave or stay. I felt very powerful in his presence, like nothing was going to harm me, and anything I said was alright. I no longer feared or felt death. His words were understood fully and completely without any words. 

I saw myself before I was sent here.  I remembered a previous conversation while picking out my parents. 

I told the angel, 'Wealthy or poor, I don't want to bail out; I will stay.' He said, 'The dark forces are around you, this is a big challenge.' I said, 'I can do it.' Suddenly I woke to a sheet over my head, as the next day was here.  I heard my mother say that they thought I'd passed away.

He moved me and found me alive, the doctor was saying. 'It's your son, you can take him home to die, or leave him here, whatever is more comfortable for you.' Mom said, 'Take him home to be around his own family, he's just a baby.' At home, I drank soup, spent months lying around. I pulled through. I saw angels in my yard that no one else could see. 

As I got older, I saw my sister, who died two months before my death experience.  My parents did not tell me about the car wreck. Through my life, I still see things others do not, feel things. I see signs in the atmosphere and in animals that let me know God is with me. I have had many strange events, too many to write.  The hospital burned to the ground three days later after I was released from the hospital.  The miracle was that only one person died in the fire.  Ironically, that one person was my nurse!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness  was dying  Life threatening event, but not clinical death was dying

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I became one with everything, was absorbed, like no need to hear with an ear or see with an eye, like a sponge absorbs, with high definition, awareness, thought-shown answers, snowflake birthing from water-cloud to flake, falling from high on my sill; No concentration, no blot-outs; all things at once known, understood, absorbed.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I went from having a three-year old mind to an adult mind during that conversation. And up until I left, I couldn't talk, but I knew everything that was going on around me - feelings, conversations.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was talking to the angel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The feeling of being on a winter lake without any clothes on, yet warm and feeling great.  My vision was unexplainable. This angel was beautiful, large, and very powerful. He looks like us, only unblemished and beautiful, and there was no fear, the huge world was balanced.  And being part of all of it in timeless beauty, night was day, and absorbed it like smoke to light; vision was sharp and crystal clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Words weren't used, the communication was absorbed. The words 'Understanding' and 'immediate' are hard to explain. I could observe the snowflake moving in the air while conversing with the angel, all at the same moment.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was aware of several tunnels, like funnels, but didn't go in one.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     Not during that experience. Later, a different time, I did.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I absorbed light and understood that it moved things.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, painlessness, warmth, extreme confidence, limitlessness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     Not then, later, yes.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was asked if I wanted to leave or stay - seems that was prior to me becoming human.  I was ask many times and thought this was them checking in on me. I remember saying, 'I am not bailing out, and I am staying.' Like a family not wanting you to go.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   i was three years old

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I was too young to have any previous knowledge.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     i was shown at early age I had no other concepts

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was young. Much of what was going on, I thought grownups already knew. Was I wrong!  Yes there are real beings such as Angels, there's a real afterlife, and there's an evil one. There is the chosen.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Yes - powerful, beautiful - what I absorbed - an angel from GOD. And I was told things about family.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   angel said that i would be wit them which i absorb understood to be moses eliga  king of kings lord of lords Jesus

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was in strong family in Heaven before i was conceved and was ask how i wanted to be put here and they GODS FAMILY MY FAMILY WAS WORRIED ABOUT MY JOURNEY OR TRAVEL HERE THIS TEST THIS DICEY TRAINNG LIKE A KID GOING OFF TO BOOT CAMP

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     WE ARE GODs CHILDREN some are not this is Marine boot camp sorta speak  next life is timeless more total creative on grander non evil way no evil  can obtain buliders keys

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Angel of light concern for our safety gives us confidence we are Gods family  all creation rulers of it when we defeat evil from a handicap postion best way to put it

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The blessed chosen one - Adam's bloodline is the chosen one, it teaches that they will fade away.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Loyality,Dignity,rightousness,judgement compassion,understanding,faith, love,  knowledge,hope,trust,togetherness, teaching,experiance,testing, is all part of this great keys awards await those who pass this test this camp.the blood seed  arrived in his im

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     God Son Holy spirt is alive is creator and has a large family there is evil but we can must defeat it on a lesser realem than evil has anther words underdogs vs super natual evil Gods family can will defeat it even with our arms legs tied because we are s

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     once the men of renoun leave the chosen race leave fade away die off the rest of the races will lose law guidence some wont but will be hunted as the chosen was multi races will remain to be Judged

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love as normal baby has unconditional love for its mother God has for you  and you must have for HIM and awards keys rulership is yours if you pass

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I can see.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I learned - if you're not one who was blessed, or given knowledge, or experience, you'll never believe it. You'll just smile and think, 'The guy's nuts.'  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I learned that the public and or the family would just say things like, 'Well, he had a dramatic experience, and a child's mind is very creative.' They try to explain the un-explainable, but I think unless you really experience it, you can't come close to understanding it. They do the best they can with what they have to work with.  And the old 'probably' and 'maybe' come out - (or 'the deceptions', as I call them.)

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Things fall into place. I see, feel things most can't see or feel. I can even pick up some.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Like I said, I've seen visions in dreams of my sister, before I was old enough to have been told that I had a sister that was killed in a car wreck. I drew pictures of it and talked about it, but a doctor simply said, 'Well, somehow it was passed through the mother to the soon-to-be-born child.' That was about it. Angels in my yard that was just 'a child's over-reactive mind' and seeing things happening beforehand were 'lucky' or a 'trick.' Can't win. People don't know, so I learned early to keep quiet.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I recovered, the hospital burned down, a nurse died just after a child (me) had left there.  After being nearly killed there, I knew it was because of the angel.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still think that the experience was definitely real. I think they were checking in on me, or testing me, once I was sent here. They thought I'd give up.  I think in Heaven, I had it good, and a lot of family hated to see me leave and go on this journey.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Seen angels, had visions of dead relatives.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes. But God knows even if no one will believe you. Fact is, he even wrote about that, or spoke about it to Thomas and the Disciples, and, way back, with Moses.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No. Thanks for listening. Believe me, we are not alone, and there is life after death.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1brad_m_probable_nde.html