{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_z_nde.html","mytitle":"Bonnie Z NDE 32085","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie Z NDE 32085  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bonnie Z NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2971 Bonnie Z NDE 32085  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was bleeding a lot, and then I became weak. After struggling to breath for several minutes, I collapsed near my bed on the floor. I was in a lot of self-inflicted pain when I blacked out, and suddenly there was no pain and I wasn't breathing or crying or gasping for air anymore. I noticed that I didn't even have the need to breathe. I felt sexless and ageless, and eternal. I felt overwhelming comfort and warmth all around me. I felt like I was floating, and my vision was a little weird because I could see all around me, and below and above me as well all at the same time. I saw the ceiling above me and it seemed to be glowing and expanding and opening up somehow to infinite space. And I saw my body below me, and all my blood. There was about two pints of it covering my arm and my floor. But I wasn't afraid of what I saw. I felt no negative emotions. I knew it was me but I didn't care - the peace I felt was so much better than the turmoil I would return to if I went back to my body. I floated continuously up, but just before I entered the light I felt like I should be in my body and so I started falling slowly and trying to breathe again. I started breathing and the pain came back. It was a struggle at first to breathe - I couldn't find my lungs. But when I did, I felt my body - and my pain- again and I was back. I tried to move my feet and soon I could move again and I was aware of my body. 

I don't remember communicating with anyone, only a feeling that there was a collective consciousness of souls who all had great love for me. I felt their love emanating towards me and pulling me higher.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

  NDE Elements:

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      No comment

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There didn't seem to be time. I felt infinite and worry free.

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The ceiling was glowing with yellow-white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It seemed like another world or dimension was colliding with mine, meeting at the ceiling. I almost was absorbed into it but not quite.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt universal love and kindness. I felt that there was a safe place for me and all other souls to go, and that when I got there I would have many other places to choose from if I wanted to go somewhere else.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I was a fundamentalist Mormon.

What is your religion now?       None   I am now a spiritualist polytheist with no specific religion.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     YES!!! My whole life has changed. I use to be very strict Christian in my views and I was constantly waging war against myself, and my nature. Now I am much more accepting, loving of everyone, and open-minded.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I understand the afterlife a LITTLE more now, and I understand death a little more. This experience had lead me to understand more of all the above MUCH more. I know understand that Mormonism is not the true path for me, and that worshiping God isn't my path either, and I understand more about myself and my purpose.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Since then I have become much more in touch with my spiritual nature and I am very good with a crystal pendulum. I can contact the dead with a pendulum, the pendulum moves all on its own. I often have visions, though I don't always know what they mean. I have also seemed to be more in touch with the supernatural. I've had several experiences with spirits. I can sometimes tell the future. But I still can't stop time, turn invisible, or move things with my mind! Ha, ha, ha.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best: The all-encompassing comfort, joy, and love I felt.  Worst: The pain and turmoil I had to experience to get to it, and upon returning to my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have only shared them with people I knew would believe me, people with similar views. I don't know if they were influenced by it. My boyfriend was excited and amazed, my best friend and her dad believed me entirely, and my best friend was excited and amazed. I haven't told my immediate family as they are really closed-minded and I can't talk to them easily.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     It felt very real, and I've heard many experiences similar to it since then, but I have no other evidence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_z_nde.html