{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Bonnie V NDE 143","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie V NDE 143  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Bonnie V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						581  Bonnie V NDE  143  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 When I was in my early twenties, I had something resembling a 'cancer scare'. I had precancerous cells on the cervix of my uterus, and I required a procedure called a 'cone biopsy'. This is typically not a dangerous procedure, but afterwards, one must take care to avoid interfering with the surgery site - no baths, no sex, and no heavy lifting.


The prohibition I had difficulty sticking to was the 'no heavy lifting’. I had a toddler. We heated the house by wood. Seven days after the surgery, I was hitching the baby on one hip, and loading the wood on the other.


I went to bed that night, and awakened in a small pool of blood. When I stood, the flood of red grew. I held sanitary pads to myself, but they were spent in a very short time. I held baby diapers, then towels, and then glasses from the cupboard to myself, to catch the flow. I realized I was bleeding to death. I called the ambulance, set out a flashing light on the rural road, and awakened a neighbor to watch my child.


The emergency folk arrived, took my story, and we set out for the one-hour drive to the hospital. On the way, I lost about half my blood before losing consciousness.


Dying or dead? I don’t know. All I know, is I went from being terribly, bone-deep, chatteringly cold and bleeding in an ambulance, to the brightest and warmest place imaginable. These are not facile descriptors - the light was like an explosion of golden yellow, accompanied by the most exquisite warmth. It is not enough to say it enveloped me – it ‘was’ me - a mellow sun, a languorous day, a paradise of contentment. All was one. It was the most sublime pleasure I have ever felt. I basked in this place; even as I thought ‘I am dying’.


I thought of my death at the same time at the same time as I thought of my life...but I was not thinking. Everything was happening at the same time; the sensuous basking in this beautiful light, my death, my life. I was afraid for my daughter.


When the emergency medical technician waved an ammonia ampule under my nose, I came back to the ambulance, and I gave them the phone number for my parents. We arrived at the hospital, they repaired the erupted cervical artery, and took me off the oxygen. My blood was drawn and tested. My blood values were low, so they gave me two units of packed cells via a blood transfusion.


I think of this as the time I almost died, or the time I decided not to die.


I am fascinated by the near death experiences of others. The random firings of an under perfused brain or Heaven? Tales of the light, the tunnel, and the beckoning figures. And even as I vote in favor of the 'lack of oxygenated blood to the brain' vs. 'Heaven', I wonder. What benevolent thing makes our last minutes like this: welcoming, light, warm, and full of joy?

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    2/4/1986

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     hemorrhage after surgery  Life threatening event, but not clinical death I had lost a considerable amount of blood, and had lost consciousness. Both my levels for hematocrit [percentage of red blood cells in blood] and hemoglobin [count of the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen to the body] were taken after the repair of the ruptured artery and they indicated I had lost approximately half my blood volume.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I did not feel my body, which was very cold and shaking. I was filled with blissful warmth, but had no awareness that this warmth was in my body. I did not have the sensation of looking at my body, or any awareness of events taking place in the ambulance. I was in another place.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was unconscious. I thought it was unconscious for several minutes, but apparently it was less than a minute’s duration.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Everything was happening all at once. Time was immaterial. I thought I was at this place for some time, but was not 'out' for that long, tens of seconds, maybe.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard my own voice say ‘I'm dying’.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Gold, yellow and white, like the sun. It was very beautiful.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I perceived the place I went as being somewhere else, but it had no landscape as such.  

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace; warmth; wonder; joy; concern for the fate of my child, who was very young at that time.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I know that I am meant to be here. I no longer fear death.  

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was not sequential or linear in any way. It was like being aware of everything all at once. I have difficulty describing, or understanding, it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     The boundary was more a decision-making boundary. I chose to return to my life so I could be a parent to my daughter.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Concern, leading to certainty. I did not regret my choice. I still don't.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   I grew up in a Catholic household, but I was not a practicing Catholic at that time. I'm still not, I guess.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I was more committed to making a happy life, to not get disappointed if things weren't perfect, to take things easier, to be kinder to other people, to pay more attention, to appreciate the beauty around me more.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Because words are so limiting. Words like 'wonder' and 'joy' and 'love' seem inadequate to explain what happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the peace, the joyful warmth and the clarity of deciding to come back. The worst part was returning to my body, as I was in severe shock and so very cold.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Not until recently, when I posted it to an online diary I've had for a year. I don't really know why I never wanted to discuss this with anyone. I certainly thought about it frequently. Perhaps I was waiting until my daughter grew up.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Shock sucks.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Thank you for providing a place where I can read about the experiences of others and share my own story.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_v_nde.html