{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_s_nde_3351.html","mytitle":"Bonnie S NDE 3351","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie S NDE 3351  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bonnie S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1305 Bonnie S NDE 3351  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was experiencing my first panic attack, which at that time I thought was a heart attack, so I drove myself to the nearest hospital. They admitted me due to heart disease running in my family.

They found something abnormal on the right side of my heart, which they wanted to do the catheter procedure, as I was having it done that is when I had the near death experience. It was so amazing, I felt the warmth and seeing the light so bright I think it would blind the human eye. I wanted to go see my kids to let them know everything was okay, I saw my son he was sleeping. Then I went and saw my daughter, she was at work, I saw she was sitting at a long table doing envelopes in a medical office. I know she felt my presence, I touched her shoulder, the sad thing is I felt no sadness, all I felt was love and warmth.

I then saw my mom standing there smiling at me, she did not have her hands out to welcome me.

I was still able to see everything going on in the hospital. I saw the doctor using the paddles and my body just lying there. I saw the nurse moving fast around the table (she was screaming in my face Bonnie breath, Bonnie breath) and then the same nurse's surgical cap fell off her head, which she ended up kicking under the table.

I was told by a male's firm voice to go back, and that is when I felt the last shock to the chest, which was very painful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/16.2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    I was having heart catheter procedure due to a finding on the right side of my heart  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   When the procedure was being preformed my heart rate went over 200 bpm and I remember the doctor hitting me in the chest, and then used the paddles to shock my heart, the fourth shock is when I went back into my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully alert when I was in the intensive care unit, so it was probably about a half an hour.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I see colors around people which I never saw before.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was going through a tunnel that was nothing but brightness.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my mother who was standing there smiling at me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was incredibility bright.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt so much love and warmth, such as being cradled with so much love like I've never experience before.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more religious.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more religious.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know the dead can communicate with the living.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am currently divorced due to seeing the real person in my ex-husband.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see colors around people, orbs floating. I also have these dreams that are so real.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my daughter because she said she felt me by her side like I came to tell her I was leaving.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I became more spiritual among other things.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Things are different, for the good.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I see auras and orbs, is that normal after you have experienced a NDE?

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       If there is anyone who has had this experience and has the same questions I've put in here.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_s_nde_3351.html