{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Bonnie L NDE 2407","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie L NDE 2407  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bonnie L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						722  Bonnie L NDE  2407  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Age 2: Was hit on forehead by large piece of furniture (radio, four feet tall, with large glass dial). I had pulled it down on myself trying to climb it. I went out of body, saw myself, my mother, and the emergency man in dark uniform and cap working on me. Saw brilliant light, intense gorgeous colors, and indescribable music. Went back into body.

Age eight: During the night while ill with scarlet fever, 'died' and went out of body and first floated over myself in the room - then went up through the roof and over the house. Began having alternating bright, lovely, expansive vision then dark, closed-in uncomfortable vision. Preferred the light vision. These two alternated and I can still recall the exact sensation and feeling I had at the time while seeing them. Was puzzled but then awoke next morning, well.

Age 15: Went to dentist (after not being to one for many years). Was given an injection, the dentist walked out of room, my heart immediately went boom! Against my chest and I was out body, looking down on myself. It was lovely up there. I saw a huge, expanding horizon and lots of bright light. They brought me back, and when I came back, I looked around at the magazines which had been in my lap prior to my experience, but while I was up there, I saw they were all over the floor. After I came back, I saw that they were indeed all over the floor. Was told I was sensitive to the epinephrine propellant stuff used in Novocain.

During my twenties I began having many spontaneous out of body trips, journeys.  Some OBEs I stayed in the general vicinity of my bedroom while sleeping, some where I went to other parts of the world, and one where I went out into space in a straight line until I was told by someone bigger than myself in no uncertain terms that I must 'Go Back! It's not your time yet.' I was never afraid, but always adventurous. In some of the experiences, I had a friend or guide, who seemed to me to be an older male who was a sort of teacher. One of the things he was teaching me was that we would contact people while they were sleeping who were shortly going to die, to prepare them. We would draw them out of their bodies and have friendly conferences, and they seemed to know us. They would not consciously remember this, but they benefited from it nonetheless - and I also to understood that this happens to everyone.

Sometimes it would happen in my sleep, but a couple of times I had a feeling in my chest that would draw me home and I would lie down and instantly go out. Once I had to leave work because of this, and I am glad I did, because this was a very important trip I had to make.

The experiences stopped during my late thirties, but to this day one will happen spontaneously, as a surprise present, which is nice.

I also had an angelic encounter in the 1980's, which healed me from a year-long strep illness.

That's about it. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	1950, 1956, 1963, multiple OBEs in 70's  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident Illness Surgery-related   Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Age two: hit on head by large piece of falling furniture. Age eight: scarlet fever. Age 15: Novocain injection at dentist stopped my heart. (Reaction to the epinephrine in it - it can stop hearts as well as start them.)  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   To be that awake and aware is nothing like every day waking awareness. Also you can see all around you and hear everything.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time, all of them.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was no sense of time at all.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     360 degree vision and hearing, simultaneously, also the definite feeling of myself being as large as the earth - going on and on beyond all horizons.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heard all, could differentiate all, there was no cacophony.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Never saw a tunnel in any of my experiences - but that does not mean I won't see one sometime or other. I do believe in the tunnel experiences of others.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Only in the out-of-body experiences of my twenties and thirties.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Unbelievably bright and penetrating through everything, all was saturated with the light. And as someone who is light-sensitive on earth, and finds bright light unpleasant and headache-provoking, it was not that kind of light. I loved that light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Earth, space, and also somewhere wonderful I can't quite remember.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy and light and it was just fabulous. I mean, not just happy, but the kind of happy where you see Daffy Duck hopping all around.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     But it would be difficult to explain just what. I brought it back with me but would find it hard to describe.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None at 2 or 8; by age 15 I was superficially Protestant.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Spiritual, rather than religious  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Can't. Still working on that. But I have never been afraid of dying. And when I hear someone I know has died, it is difficult to keep from being visibly happy for them, because I know they have 'graduated'.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Always been thought of as psychic. I know when women are pregnant and when people are going to die, but don't share this with them.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that there is more beyond ourselves than we can ever imagine. I had a pretty horrible childhood, and the experiences helped me survive and made me very intuitive, spiritual, and made me read voraciously from the age of four, everything I could get my hands on, hoping (to myself, as I hadn't told anybody) that I might someday come across something similar to my experiences.  Also, having seen my 'dead' body from a distance more than once and knowing it's not a frightening thing - that 'dying' is nothing to be afraid of.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Decades before I shared it. I shared the childhood experiences with my mother, who verified the details of the house I lived in at age two, and the thing about the emergency man in the dark uniform with matching dark hat.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I thought I was the only person this had ever happened to, because nobody ever spoke about it. I didn't even really know exactly what had happed to me (as a child, anyway.)  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was more real than life on earth is real. It was the REAL reality. This (life on earth) is just a shadow or reflection of reality. And the brightest sunlight is dim in comparison.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above. Never changed my view of it.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Who are you (Jody and Jeff) and how did you get involved in this field?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_l_nde.html