{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_j_possible_ndes.html","mytitle":"Bonnie J Possible NDEs 7766","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie J Possible NDEs 7766  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bonnie J Possible NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDEs  			4190 Bonnie J Possible NDEs 7766  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was about 11, I came down with chicken pox.  I was very ill for a very long time.  I would say I was deathly ill for about a month.  I was running a very high fever, not eating, and had many lesions on my body that were very itchy and painful.  The doctor would come by routinely for visits, as I was too weak to leave the house.  There came a point where I was having visual hallucinations.  I would be wide-awake and see bugs on my pillowcase - distressing, scary things.  But I was awake during these events.  My parents were getting very scared and the next day I was to be brought to the hospital. The hospital was preparing a room for me they said.  
 
 That night when I was in bed I suddenly found myself in a tunnel or in a blackness.  There was this - what I can describe as - a cut out of the blackness.  As if, you were to cut a hole in black paper or something. Because there was this hole is why I say I was in a tunnel of some kind.   Anyway, it was pitch black except for this hole, where I could see a blue sky on the other side.  The light did not permeate into the blackness where I was suspended.  These two little girls appeared in this hole and they were looking at me, smiling, giggling, and telling me things.  I felt completely happy and comforted by them.  They were my age and I now feel like they were my guardian angels.  Of course, I can't be sure of this.  The miraculous thing about this is the next morning I was completely better.  No fever and I wanted to eat again.  The sores went away almost immediately.  I've always remembered this and have shared this with some people.  I don't know if I died or how long I was with these little girls.  It was a wonderful feeling being with them.  I wish I were high enough in this space to see behind these girls to see what landscape lay behind them but I was suspended below them looking up. 
 
 There was another experience that I feel, is worth mentioning.  Not long ago I had surgery to remove my gall bladder. It was routine surgery but I was having much difficulty in the recovering room.  I was vomiting and basically not recovering.  The doctor decided to have me stay the night.  The whole night I didn't sleep due to nurses coming in every hour to check my vitals.  At some point in the night, I heard a loud bang, almost like a gun shot went off near my head.  Immediately, I was standing in this landscape and I could see other people standing near me looking up at these HUGE pink clouds leading up to the heavens.  It was like being in the eye of a hurricane where it is still, with towering clouds leading upward for what looked like an eternity.  The next thing I knew is I woke up feeling terrible.  I don't remember feeling any emotion with this experience - it was just this beautiful sight.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness.        Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Childhood Illness

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Normal consciousness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Normal consciousness

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't remember feeling like time was passing.  It did seem like it happened all at once.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Normal vision

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal hearing, although I don't remember hearing anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I saw a hole cut-out-like thing but no a tunnel with sides or anything.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I think in the second one that the people I saw were deceased people.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   This light didn't permeate the void in which I was.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The land with the amazingly high clouds, which were beautiful and pink/white.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The first experience I felt happiness and joy and the second one there was no emotion.  It seemed like I was there a split-second.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered these two little girls and in the second one I saw other people possibly who had just died, I think.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It does exist.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I feel these guardian angels were just a prelude of what is to come and I would have met God if I went into the hole.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I do feel that there is life after death.  An illness might last for a while but death is an instantaneous thing.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am sometimes able to sense when something is about to happen.  Many times, I dream of things that actually happen.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was meaningful to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my parents immediately, which of course really scared them.  With the second, I told my significant other and I'm not sure if he knows what happened to me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_j_possible_ndes.html