{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Bonnie J NDE 3588\/7303","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie J NDE 3588/7303  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bonnie J NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1614 Bonnie J NDE 3588  					  				  			      			  			  				      Experience Description 7303:  					</p>  					Prior to this experience: At age 6, 7 or 8, I was told in a dream that I would have an opportunity to live or die before I was 24 years old. The water skiing accident occurred 3 months and 12 days before my 24th birthday. 

I saw the ski boat headed in my direction. I waved my arms and screamed. I knew I would be hit; I said the Our Father prayer as the shadow of the boat overcame me. I remember the impact forced the air from me. 

Immediately I was without a body. The best way to describe the experience is that I knew who I was, however, I did not feel pain nor was I afraid. A tremendous white light surrounded me. I felt unbelievable peace, love, harmony, goodness. I knew I was floating, that I did not have a body; I sensed goodness around me then sensed a question asking if I was ready to die. I knew I had mixed feelings.  Instantaneously, I saw my grave with my two little children crying standing apart from my husband, their dad. I sensed I could not leave my children; I saw the lake water parting as I was pushed to the surface of the lake. 

I saw a clear blue sky and a single white bird then I felt the pain. I made my way to the boat that hit me. A nurse and a doctor were at lakeside. I later learned only a nurse was present when our boat docked; I will swear a doctor was also there; that the doctor applied a pressure bandage to my abdomen. I later learned no doctor was present.  Paramedics arriving 15-20 minutes after the accident was called in applied the pressure bandage. I remember the premonition, the accident, and the experience as if each happened just yesterday though 37 years have passed. I experience a degree of premonition limited to events I need to be aware of, prepared for. May 17, 1977 changed my life, the lives of my children in ways too surreal to mention. I feel the accident was a blessing of significant degrees.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 17, 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function).   I was water skiing. I fell. A ski boat hit me in the abdomen at an estimated 35mph based on injuries. Liver lacerated. Right kidney lacerated. Right side muscle wall severed in two. Lacerations from right side neck to right thigh.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The doctor at the lake who told me to breathe and put the pressure bandage around my abdomen. An eyewitness (my husband) told me a doctor was never present at lakeside - just a nurse then the paramedics. I know a doctor was with the nurse  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Floating in the brilliant white space I believe to be Heaven. It was absolute of every sense, communication was thought not word; it was absolute goodness, awareness, peace. Post-accident: Awareness remains heightened but nothing like May 17, 1977.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was at a certain surreal place for a specific reason - it is as if time stopped upon my arrival, stood still filled with the question, my indecision, the vision of my gravesite. The surreal place ended after knowing I could not leave my children behind.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     'Un-blinded' to 'everything'. It was like seeing and being aware of everything around me concurrently.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Thoughts replaced words. Everything was instantaneous, immediately understood.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My children and husband when I was shown my gravesite when I was asked if I was ready to die.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Total whiteness, absolute white, shimmering white I associated as love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was immediately in a bright white space filled with goodness; I knew I was without a body; I knew I'd been transformed into the purest element of the soul. I was so at peace with being where and how I was. I felt as if I'd arrived home.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt absolute peace, happiness, love, goodness, and belonging. Conflicted only when I was asked if I was ready to die.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt part of the All of everything impossible to describe except to call it Heaven.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Seeing my children crying at my graveside. I felt my husband would not raise them in the way they needed to be raised, with the knowledge each of them needed to be taught in order to live the lives they needed to live to fulfill their purpose in life. I saw them at my graveside; I knew I could not leave them. Immediately I was aware of being pushed to the surface of the lake.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Practicing Catholic; strong belief in God

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know God is everywhere and hears every word and thought and does listen to prayers and answers them though I joke that God's interpretation of a prayer is much different than the intentions of the one praying. I say this with good reason and have realized sometimes we take ourselves too seriously.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Non-practicing Catholic, Zen

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Consistent:  I believed in and believe in God.  In-consistent:  I did not know God is aware of everyone and everything every minute of each day...that each act, word, intention is duly noted....

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know nothing is coincidental - every person, every circumstance, every experience has value and is necessary for me, for others - that we engage with others we are meant to engage with though reason cannot be defined and outcome may never be known.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt 'part of the whole' completeness, total immersion into the totality of everything. I felt in the presence of God

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I felt in communion with Jesus.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I had a choice to live or die.  I was aware of a life ending event before I'd turn 24; I knew I would be asked if I was ready to die; it was like I've been here before and was assigned a task to do but I could choose not to continue - my life would be dif

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     In the white light I was part of every experience with all souls.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Specific focus by one entity my soul recognized as God. I was part of the great white light; I sensed many entities filled with love, goodness, peace...words are difficult to find to describe the Oneness with All state of being my sense of existence entered into.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That each soul is connected; that each has a purpose and each person is to perfect skills required to fulfill the purpose of that soul.  A soul touches many in different ways, times and reasons we will never know yet the need to interact is ever present and we are responsible therefore we need to be aware and we need to believe in God to fulfill our purpose so others are able to fulfill their purpose.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Life's meaning is to love, to have faith, to believe, to teach, to influence by means of a consistent example regardless of life events.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is life after death. I sense belonging with all entities surrounding me though I sensed and responded to a single thought directed specifically to me.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     All are opportunities to define character; that each minute of every day are opportunities to refine, perfect, understand, practice and be the best a person can be in all ways at all times understanding perfection is not possible however that fact does no

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love was the essence of the experience. Peace, harmony, love, goodness.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I stopped being afraid. I changed everything in my life that caused conflict. I became patient, very humble, and very aware of impacts my words or actions could or would have on others in my life long-term or short-term. Without directly seeking to be a confidant or counselor or shoulder to cry on I found myself surrounded by people in need of help, guidance, comfort. My stamina was stretched to limits not thought possible. The Book of Job became my roadmap. I believed and believe every step of my life thereafter was a test of faith.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes My close circle of friends and family is very small, limited. However, relationships with people who drop into my life during difficult times in their lives are great but very short-term. There are many of these, though as I age, the frequency slows. Now my young grandsons fill those vacant slots.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because words do not exist to explain pure thought void of need to embellish, justify, explain It 'just was'

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience     though 37 years have passed, I remember every bit of the experience as if it just happened.   though 50+ years have passed since I was made aware that I'd have a chance to live/die before I reached my 24th birthday, I remember the premonition as if it happened last night.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I know to be prepared for major events though I do not always know what the major event will be. I know when a person is in emotional, mental or spiritual pain. I know thoughts of others; intentions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I believe my life has a purpose or I'd not been made aware of a life-threatening event when I was a small child. I believe I came back to ensure my children reached their potential; that I would need to support their emotional and spiritual development. I believe my days are numbered; this could be an irrational thought however, the thought that I will finally die when my children are capable of moving forward without me without negative consequence This thought has never left me since May 17, 1977.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    10, 20 years. Disbelief. Absolute disbelief. Doctors said my survival was a miracle. Religious people discount the experience as a physical reaction in the brain. Not many believe I had a premonition or that I experienced the white light, though my entire life has been entirely different since that time and I've accomplished impossible goals none ever thought me capable of reaching. I assign every goodness in my life to God; I assign willingness to accept challenges to me but without God's assignment then I'd not have the choice to accept or reject the challenge therefore everything in my life happens because God asks me to consider work He wishes me to do.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I remembered the premonition when I was a little girl during my mid-teen years. Each birthday I'd celebrate survival. In 1977, 3 months and 12 days before my 24th birthday, I'd laughed at myself for thinking the dream of a young girl was real. The event on May 17, 1977 happened exactly as the 'lady in the dream' told me it would happen though the cause that brought to premonition to fruition was unknown.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because my life is totally different; my values and beliefs are totally different. Because my life has been one challenge after another, yet I always know what I am to do though I never know why I am supposed to do the things I do. My life is filled with goodness, not necessarily material goodness, but goodness of helping others to reach their potential, helping others understand changes needed in their lives and realizing the extent of change in other's lives.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Because of the accident, I've had many major surgeries. During two surgeries, I experienced out of body situations when I looked down on my body pleading for pain medication or watched blood transfusions while I bled out on an operating table. I've never returned to the bright light though. I feel the Oneness during the out of body experiences yet I never get asked if I am ready to die.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was real. It did affect my life in very positive ways. It did teach me humility; it did confirm God's existence and the fact we are all part of one Whole. No matter the impact on my life physically I feel I was and continue to be very blessed all of my life.    				  


					Experience Description 3588:  					</p>  					The event of May 17, 1977 was the fulfillment of a promise made to me by an Angel or the Virgin Mother when I was a small child on my parent's farm in Nebraska. My claim is this: I woke in the middle of the night to a vision of a lady at the foot of my bed. She was dressed in blue with stars around her; a bright light emanated from behind, below and above her. She said to me, Bonnie before you reach the age of twenty-four you will be given a choice to live or die.' I remember that vision as if it occurred just last night when it fact it occurred at least fifty years ago. I remembered it somewhat while I was a child but as I neared my twenties each year a couple of months before my birthday I would wonder if I would actually live to see my birthday.

On May 17, 1977, I was three and half months away from my twenty-fourth birthday. I was in wonderful health and I thought 'I'm going to make it to my birthday without event.' Then the boat accident happened - a fluke. It was a clear day in May; only two boats were on the huge lake that day - the one I was riding in and the other occupied by a doctor and a nurse (we later found out when they reached shore to do triage on me). No wind, the lake was calm; the surface of the water was as smooth as a mirror.

At first, I did not know why the driver of the boat didn't see me. I was screaming and waving my arms - then I 'just knew' the boat was going to hit me so I maneuvered my body into a horizontal as best I could hoping to keep the bow of the boat from hitting my head. The last thing I remember prior to the NDE was saying the prayer, the Our Father (I was not terribly religious at that time) then feeling the impact of the boat in my side, having the wind knocked out of me and swallowing water.

The next thing I sensed was a surreal feeling of floating high, high in the sky. I had all of my senses though I felt I no longer had a body. All around me was bright, bright light and I sensed so much love I felt as if I'd never ever felt before - quiet, peace, serene contentment, no pain, no worry, just a tremendous sense of BEING - of me BEING. I heard (sensed) love, joy, peace, contentment. I floated without seeing anyone (relatives that had passed away). But, if this makes sense, I FELT God's presence.

Then I sensed (heard - I hesitate to describe the event with our human terms because I never HEARD anything yet I know I was asked) a question. The question was, 'Are you ready Bonnie?' I struggled with the answer and then I was shown my graveside. The grass around my burial plot was vivid, vivid green, the sky was blue, there was a gentle breeze - I even heard a bird sing. People were leaving the coffin for their cars. The only three people left by my coffin were my husband, my daughter then aged three and my son then aged seventeen months. AT THAT MOMENT I KNEW I could not leave my children - I telepathed my answer, 'NO.'

The next moment I saw myself being propelled through the water towards the surface of the lake, I remember watching the water part above me. I remember seeing the sky as the water opened in front of me. I remember being propelled with such force that I actually bobbed up and down (like a buoy) when I reached the surface.

I saw my husband diving from the boat into the lake looking for me (yes, I actually had been submerged). I tried to scream, tried to wave my arm to get his attention and that of the driver of the boat (my sister). I could not - I remember thinking - 'I'm going to have to save myself'. I swam to the boat (I don't remember how far the boat was from me). The doctor and the nurse (in the second boat) saw the accident - they had radioed (phoned - don't know which) for an ambulance then went to shore - met us at the shore.

My full life vest - the kind that is like a jacket that buckles around the waist and chest and has a belt was torn and waterlogged. I remember floating again and numerous times the nurse (or doctor) shaking me, slapping my face asking me to 'stay awake' - I remember hearing them - I don't think I ever opened my eyes.

I was taken to the hospital in a torso pressure bandage because I constantly moaned about my right side. In the emergency room the laceration to my thigh was fixed, the doctors deemed my right elbow was not crushed - the doctors intended to send me home. I didn't want to go home because of the pain in my right side - they sent me to the x-ray - where when the pressure bandage was removed I coded. I suffered lacerations to my liver, my right kidney, a five inch hernia to the right muscle wall BUT, and this of all things saved me - my skin did not tear - it was intact. Internal bleeding was so bad the doctors chose not to operate on me - they believed they could not control the bleeding if they operated so months later, after the edema dissipated I had surgery to put my muscle wall back together.

The story does not stop there - I then had the premonition that my time on earth would be finished once my children were settled in their lives - my children are in the early to mid-thirties, one married, one will be married (for the third and I know final time) this June. One has found her life career, the other is just now finding his - a budding idea but one in which I know he will be fulfilled and happy. I cannot shake the feeling that I will not be here for long - perhaps fifty-seven, 2.33 years - sounds dumb I know BUT so did the vision I had when I was a little girl.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 17 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other Accident - complications - in the water 3-4 minutes - hit by a motorboat going approx 35 mph - took the brunt of the impact on the right side of abdomen  I was water skiing. The boat pulling me hit me after I fell from the water skis. The boat speed approximated at thirty-five mph. I took the brunt of the impact from the boat on my right side - abdomen. Full body life jacket was lacerated and at the time I was revived, completely water soaked. First laceration was near my jugular vein (right neck) - last laceration was my right thigh (propeller cut). Massive internal damage - lacerated liver, right kidney, right side muscle wall completely severed. The only reason I am here is because the skin did not break - there was only a slight raised red ridge on my skin caused by the impact of the boat. The doctors said if my skin had cut open I would have lost my internal organs in the lake.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the moment I sensed peace, joy, love, contentment and was floating - when I knew I did not have a body but I was still totally ME.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't believe time existed on that level. I did not have a sense of time - I simply realized I was without a body - the only characteristic I had was my ability to process thought.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw with my mind not my eyes. Clarity was amazing - as if seeing colors, objects for the first time. My husband, children at my grave were solid, very real - I could hear their cries, see their tears and also SENSE their pain. I sensed my husband's overwhelmed feeling about the children and KNEW he could not raise them as they needed to be raised - THE ONLY REASON I ANSWERED THE QUESTION I WAS ASKED WITH A 'NO'.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was not as we experience it in our everyday life - I SENSED the words rather than heard the words.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was simply THERE - no tunnel, enclosure - I was simply WITH GOD.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     No departed relatives or other 'dead' people, just my husband and children at my gravesite.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything was a light - the sky white that is the only thing I saw until I was shown my gravesite.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     ONLY MY GRAVESITE.....

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A peace, joy, love, harmony, rapture that I knew I was with God.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Born and raised Catholic but currently non-practicing - however I do have deep faith as a result of the NDE

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know religion is practiced every day instead of one time a week in a building. I know goodness resides in a person's mind, heart and soul instead of the Bible. I know if we followed Jesus' simple teachings the WORLD would be a better place but I also know God gives us the CHOICE to be the person or people we decide to be.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Deep personal relationship with God - no specific religion

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know religion is practiced every day instead of one time a week in a building. I know goodness resides in a person's mind, heart and soul instead of the Bible. I know if we followed Jesus' simple teachings the WORLD would be a better place but I also know God gives us the CHOICE to be the person or people we decide to be.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am totally aware of Goodness, totally dedicated to helping, totally opposed when someone is hurting another individual and take an active part to end the hurt. I talk of God to others (not a fanatic) but I am forever grateful for all He has given me and the life He gave me. I KNOW I will see Him again.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I sense change, trouble, illness, outcomes etc with respect to people I know and myself. I know when an object is going to break. I don't know when, how, or why I just know. My family, when we are not joking, say I am ninety-nine percent right with respect to what I tell them; my friends call me an angel. I seem to be put in places where people are in need - they tell me I 'fix' them - show them a different road to travel, way to think, belief in themselves, ways to come to a decision. With respect to 'knowing something' I knew I wouldn't finish a tour of employment offshore - that 'something' would bring me home well before my twenty-four months abroad was over - and it happened in the exact timeframe I outlined. I know when a car is going to break down before it does so. I know what a person needs - and I help them find peace, happiness. I seem to be helping others - at the same time I feel a great unsettledness in my life, like I am coming to the end of why I am here.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire incident because the promise made to me when I was a child that I would be asked to decide if I wanted to live or die before I turned twenty-four years of age.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I was well enough. Through the years I've shared it with people who were in 'need' and 'needed to know' that God is with us, and loves them and is helping them through their difficulties, grief, sorrow, challenges. Awe, wonder, amazement. Yes, as a result of my sharing and my continued support of them during their trials - when the trial passed they tell me they could not have endured the hardship without me - they call me an Angel. The funny thing is - I have no sense of what it is I give to give such comfort or clarity or hope or whatever it is I give these people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Absolutely real given the doctors said I should not be alive for the following reasons:  1) My life vest was completely water logged - I should have sunk rather than surface.  2) My skin should have split wide open from the impact of the boat.  3) Water was pumped out of my stomach and lungs.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Absolutely real. I knew nothing of NDEs prior to the experience. I had a premonition of death if I got into the water - yet I got in the water to ski anyway - I KNOW this was the premonition AT PLAY. There was no way I could have imagined such a surreal existence without my body.  I KNOW I heard, but no words were spoken.  I was able to see but knew I no longer had eyes, and could speak but did not have to say a word and there is no way to describe the absolute peace and love I felt and I saw my grave - my children crying and husband - and then I answered the question put to me. As soon as I gave the answer, I was back in the water being pushed to the surface of the lake - this was NOT a dream. This was the Hand of God.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Eight weeks ago I had lumbar spine surgery (continued fixing of issues caused by the boat accident thirty-plus years ago). During the surgery I ran into difficulty, blood pressure dropped extremely low, needed a blood transfusion - I experienced my first out-of-body experience. I was floating above my body - all aspects of my vision were semi-dark except for a white light shining down on me. I saw myself sit up two times begging and crying for pain pills, saw hands on me pushing me down on the gurney and a voice saying 'You cannot have pain medication because your blood pressure is extremely low.' While floating I did not feel pain, I did not have a sense of being attached to my body, in fact I was indifferent to what was happening.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I feel as if I've bought time on earth - time necessary to ensure my children are safe, stable, independent, happy and able to live without me and then my time here will be over. By the way, I ended up raising extremely independent children, very competent, capable, good, sensitive, caring, giving children. I feel that as soon as their happiness's are complete that some unknown incident will take me from them - unknown and very sudden - just like the boat accident.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None, a great questionnaire.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_j_nde.html