{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_h_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Bonnie H Probable NDE 6314","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie H Probable NDE 6314  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bonnie H Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3070 Bonnie H Probable NDE 6314  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was laying back in the dental chair with a nasal mask on through which I was receiving laughing gas.  The dentist had instructed me to inhale the laughing gas whenever I started feeling anxious. I had no problem with the procedure and nothing particularly painful or scary was happening. One minute I was inhaling, and the next minute I was in the top of a fichus tree, which was standing in the corner. I felt like I was ‘one with it’; I wasn't climbing its limbs, I was just part of it. I can't describe from where or how I heard or sensed what was being told to me. It was more like I was receiving information telepathically from some source that was simply telling me all the answers to everything in the world; things that I never even cared or understood anything about: wars, mathematical equations, solutions. The subjects were beyond vast, they were boundless, and the information about them was flying through my head faster than a millisecond.

Whoosh! Whoosh! Whoosh! I was fascinated by the amount of knowledge being shared with me. I was in AWE of it and wanted to share it with others, although I simultaneously knew, somehow, that I wouldn't be allowed to take that information ‘back’.  I say ‘back’ because what I was experiencing didn't feel like what people describe as a ‘before or after’ experience. I had no concept of having to go anywhere. I was just there and I liked it. My greatest thought was how badly I wanted to tell others what I was being told. The answers, themselves, were indescribably exciting, thrilling, especially because I didn't even know what half of them pertained. I simply KNEW they were very important and I felt so privileged in hearing all of it. 

Suddenly I somehow heard my dentist (like behind and below me) say ‘OH SH#T! I'm standing on the line!’  I didn't know what that meant, but didn't care either; I was just happy to be where I was. Then I heard him hollering my name several times. ‘Bonnie! Bonnie! Are you alright?!’ I was totally irritated that he was interrupting what I was enjoying so I wouldn't answer him. He hollered my name again and finally it was like I relented, answering just to shut him up so I could go back to what I was experiencing. I just wanted him to leave me the heck alone! Then he put something cold on my forehead and the dental assistant started patting my face. I was REALLY mad at them! They took the laughing gas mask off my face. Suddenly it felt like my body was, literally, sucked downward. 

I was, then, back in the chair looking up at the dentist and giving him an evil stare because I was still mad at him. Neither he nor the assistant said anything to me about something having gone wrong. They just finished whatever they were doing to me; said I could leave and they disappeared very fast.  I felt extremely out of it, though, dazed and confused. I paid my bill, and asked if I could talk to the dentist. They went to get him, but said his door was closed which meant he was unavailable. I left and as I drove away, I was FILLED with bewilderment and confusion. I honestly don't think I even remembered at that point, what I had experienced. It took a few days, and even weeks, for me to begin putting things together in my head. I never spoke of it to anyone until several years later.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sometime in the late 70's

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Drug or medication overdose.  I was just having some fillings done on my teeth.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I didn't see or hear anything else until the dentist started hollering my name. I kept ignoring him.    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was in a state of such high consciousness and alertness that I can't even describe it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was in a state of such high consciousness and alertness that I can't even describe it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was like there was no such thing as ‘time’ as we know it. Everything happened, was thought, was answered, simultaneously.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I can't say I had an actual ‘vision’ during the experience. It was more of a mental telepathic experience, where things were happening inside my mind and there was like an explosion of light: answers and things flashing all over the place.  Prior to that, I was just sitting in the chair getting the hang of relying on the laughing gas. I wasn't particularly feeling anything other than a little anxiety.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Again, it's not like I was ‘hearing’ anything. It was more like telepathic energy flying through my mind like an explosion: so fast and powerful that I can't even describe it fully.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   From what I recall, I did not see a light, per-se, or anything I affiliated (at the time) with anything spiritual.  It was more like you see in pictures of the universe in space, where there is just infinite space and things flying about; which to me at the time, seemed like the answers flying by.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The best description I can offer is that I just felt absorbed by the universe, like I had become part of it. But it was such a comfortable experience that I wasn't really thinking of anything other than the awe I felt.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt absolutely in AWE of the magnificence, power and knowledge that was encompassing me. I really wanted to stay there, hear, and learn more. In the next question, you ask if I felt ‘peace or pleasantness’ and I can't even rely on those words to describe what I felt. I guess I have to rely on the last answer, but only because I know I wasn't afraid.  I was simply in AWE and THRILLED by what I was feeling, but it's like my ‘joy’ with it was detached; I was stuck in the ‘awe’.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Like I said, I was given all the answers to EVERYTHING in the world: from nuclear stuff, to medical solutions, to whatever. What was most frustrating, however, was that I was told I could not bring those answers back with me; I somehow knew I was only allowed to bring back the memory of having experienced what I did.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   Although I was raised to attend churches, we never belonged to a particular one and rarely attended services on a regular basis.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I don't know if it was because of my experience or a result of just maturing and experiencing life as I've gone along, but I'm not so scared or desperate now.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   I'm not what I would call "religious". I dislike organized religion. I don't even like to refer to a higher power as "God". I think what I believe in most is mere "love" and that we are just another aspect of our universe.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I could understand if this experience happened to me NOW, because in more recent years I have been drawn to the same thing many women of my age are drawn to - self improvement, finding our purpose, understanding what makes us tick.  But back then, when this experience occurred, I wasn't curious about much of anything other than raising my children and being a housewife. Just ordinary stuff, you know? I couldn't have cared LESS about the world or religion or wars, etc.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I could understand if this experience happened to me NOW, because in more recent years I have been drawn to the same thing many women of my age are drawn to: self-improvement, finding our purpose, understanding what makes us tick. Back then, when this experience occurred, I wasn't curious about much of anything other than raising my children and being a housewife. Just ordinary stuff, you know? I couldn't have cared LESS about the world or religion or wars.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I can't even describe whatever it was as a ‘being’. As I've said, this was a deeply telepathic experience. I saw no faces, heard no particular voices.  Something knows ALL the answers to EVERYTHING. Whether or not that means there is a mystical connection or unity, I cannot say. I simply know there is something greater than all of us, all of everything on this planet, and in the universe.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I don't know, because I wasn't allowed to bring back such information if I DID hear of it.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Something knows ALL the answers to EVERYTHING. Whether or not that means there is a mystical connection or unity, I cannot say. I simply know there is something greater than all of us and all of everything on this planet and in the universe.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I can't call it "God" or anything else. I simply knew from this experience that SOMETHING much greater than myself exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I may have been given such information, but as I've said, I was not allowed to bring those answers back with me.  I knew the answer to every little thing in the universe. Why that information was shared with ME is beyond anything I can imagine; I am just a normal person who has always gone about their day doing daily rituals, raising kids, earning what money I could on crafts to supplement our income. I don't get it.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I can only assume I did find out what our purpose is and about life's meaning. Afterall, I heard LOTS of answers and information. But I couldn't bring it back!!

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     Uncertain     I may have been given such information, but as I've said, I was not allowed to bring those answers back with me.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I do remember knowing somehow of all these parts of life and that there were answers for every one of them, but we just don't know it on earth.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I don't recall any particular information about that, but I am CERTAIN that the source communicating with me was of something even greater than mere love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     As time has gone by, I've come to believe we worry too much about ‘control’. I also believe that no matter what occurs or why, we aren't really supposed to know the answers. I believe answers are revealed to us in their own time, and many times those answers aren't that important. I believe we just worry too much.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't even tell anyone about the experience for years because I couldn't find the words to articulate it fully. I still don't think I've ever been able to describe the totality of it to anyone.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   There is not a single part of this experience that I don't remember vividly. It's like it is stuck in my head with cement.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Foremost is the FACT that I KNOW there are answers to everything. There is not a single part of this experience that I don't remember vividly. It's like it is stuck in my head with cement.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't share it with anyone until I started seeing books come out talking about NDEs.  That's the first time I started thinking ‘wow, something really did happen!’

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real      I couldn't make sense of it. It was too surreal and didn't fit in with what I knew to be ‘real’.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have since read many books about NDEs and watched programs about it. It's more acceptable, today, to talk about it. I have no problem discussing it anymore.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If I know nothing else, I DO know there are answers to everything in this life. I don't recall any particular information about love, but I am CERTAIN that the source communicating with me was of something even greater than mere love. Uncertain   I do remember knowing all these parts of life, and that there were answers for every one of them, but we just don't know it on earth. Yes. I can't call it ‘God’ or anything else. I simply knew from this experience that SOMETHING much greater than I, exists.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_h_probable_nde.html