{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_c_nde_6713.html","mytitle":"Bonnie C NDE 6713","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie C NDE 6713  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bonnie C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3338 Bonnie C NDE 6713  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was scheduled for a cesarean section with my second child.  I arrived at the hospital a little nervous but everything was routine and without concerns.  At some point during the surgery, I began to feel incredible pain under my ribs and I began to feel a sensation of spinning.  I could hear people talking and laughing. At the time, I took it to be the nursing staff.  I was distressed with so much pain. In my mind l shouted for help but I couldn't speak.  I called and called for help and then began to call on God. Within seconds, the pain ended and I quickly realized I was out of my body.  It took me a few minutes to realize what was going on.  I looked at myself in the hospital bed. I wondered how that could be me while it was l standing beside my body.  I saw the doctor run in from the left side of the room and a nurse to the right. I moved out of the way to seemingly make space for them.  The doctor was discussing me with the nurse and she said to him, 'You have to go, because your next patient is now prepped in theatre.'  He screamed at her, ‘how can I do this surgery when I've just lost a patient?!’ Hearing this, I moved further away from them and became preoccupied with the form I had taken.  I was fascinated to see that I was somehow poured into a corner. I could see that I was somehow fluid and I saw that I was some kind of silver-like liquid mercury, or a silver thread-like being.

After hearing I had died, I said very matter of fact, ‘oh. So I died. I always wondered how I would die.  But, I'm not dead.  Don't they know I'm not dead?’

I seemed to turn away and very quickly was sucked into a small tight tunnel. It was dark and I could see a small pin prick of light at the end.  I moved through the tunnel for what seemed to be a long time. Somehow, I knew I was going to have to answer a question when I reached the light. I was also told, ‘don't say it’. The words rang through me as I wondered, ‘don't say what?’

As I went through the tunnel, I began to soak up knowledge. I understood everything. Physics, math, chemistry, life and death, why we are here, where we are going. All of my questions on earth were answered.

I was a super concentrated form of my physical self, with all of my memories and experiences. I worried about my mother. I wanted to let her know I didn't really die.

As I slowed down, the light wrapped around me and I instinctively knew that l was back and that l am just a tiny part of this light now reunited.  I was home. I still worried.

I noticed a presence in front of me. It communicated to me, not by talking but just by thinking. I understood the question.  ‘Are you ready to come with us?’ I was scared.  I asked for permission to go back. I said I was scared and I had to tell my mum I was okay, or she would be very upset.  If I could do that, I would come back to the light.  We had a discussion about some things I had wondered as a child and I still have that knowledge today.  I was shown a short image of my birth and my mother and father.  Then my grandfather’s death. 

I was told if I am ever to speak of this then to give this message: 

It's not complicated, don't make it so.  

And, we have it all backwards.  We don't live and then die but we die and then live.

Stop searching to answer the mystery when there isn't one. 

I was made aware of a definite boundary and that if I agreed to cross through the light I could never go back. It was my choice.  I said I'll go back. 

I heard a loud swooshing in my ears and seemingly fell into my body. I woke up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  21st July 1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related. Childbirth. While under general anesthesia    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' Shock

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard and saw  the discussion between the medical staff.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was given the answers to all things.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Moving through the tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The events happened quickly. l don't know how long I was there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There is a great weight on earth, including learning, working, and the physical body.  During my experience, everything is known and somehow reinstated. I was light. I moved fast and was all knowing.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Somehow I didn't need to hear, I just absorbed the communication and likewise that was how l answered. Just by thinking.  The communication was fast and I didn't need to take time to interpret what was being said.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was dark and swirling. I went through at an incredible speed not knowing when I would stop.  I had no control of the journey.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     There was another being somehow to the left of the being conversing with me.  I don't know who it was.  Although my grandfather had passed away years before, I didn't recognize this as someone who knew me.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was incredibly bright. Almost a brilliant white. I could see it without having to turn away. The light could communicate with me, and I with it.  I was part of it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Although I didn't pass through the light, l was aware that there was something beyond.  I knew I could go through the light across the boundary.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confused, anxious that my parents would grieve. A little scared.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I only wish I could speak about everything l learned.  I was absorbing information incredibly fast about all things.  I was given mathematical equations that made complete sense to me.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     Just that my name was known in some kind of book or list.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I knew there was a boundary it was very real. It seemed to be about a foot in front of me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   All I seemed to be concerned about during my experience was my mother.  She and others knew that when we die we go on and are not really dead but more alive than here on earth.  I needed to explain this to my parents.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Not actively involved within the church

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was not concerned with religion or church going or even praying.  As a busy young mum with a three year old and another baby on the way and an abusive marriage I had little time to look for answers.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     While I do not believe in a ‘God,’ I greatly believe in the almighty power, the one true being of light that brings us back, and teaches us.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The being or voice seemed to know me.  We conversed for some time.  The being was something of a teacher explaining things to me and showing me my life.  It allowed me to decide if I was to stay or come back.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   My experience had nothing to do with any religion or God.  I was more aware that this being was the greatest power of all, but not God as such.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt I was part of the light, like one tiny fractionated sliver returning home,

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I experienced a powerful being during this time.  I did not question it's power, I knew it existed.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Although I learned many things, when I awoke I began to talk to people about us having this life and death thing backwards.  Unfortunately, many people told me it was the surgery that caused my hallucinations

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I know our purpose but somehow can't speaking it.  It's like a name I'm trying to remember , it's there but I can't get it out or put it into words.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I learned that we die in order to live.  This information was passed to me during my time in the light.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     To stop searching for answers.  They're all there and it's simple if only we would see.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Only that we create the hardships and challenges and its really uncomplicated.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     Only that I was home in the light, but I was concerned for my mother on earth.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I can remember everything, my journey, my feelings, my being, the whole experience with great clarity.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am very intuitive. I can pick up items belonging to others and get a sense for what they are feeling.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I now believe in reincarnation and I feel we are given the choice to return to the world as many times as we want to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Minutes after l awoke from my surgery l was discussing ‘the message’ with the staff.  I told anyone who would listen. The reactions were disbelief, discounting it happened, or thinking I had gone crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had a great sense of how amazing the earth truly was. I was often found sitting on the grass marveling at the trees, grass, and the sky.  It was like I was seeing this for the first time in my life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can't remember any dream or nightmare I might have had thirty seven years ago, but I remember this accurately and it was more vivid than each day I spend awake these days.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_c_nde_6713.html