{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Bonnie C NDE 7180\/3540","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie C NDE 7180/3540  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  			    			      			        			          			          Bonnie C NDE   			            			            			            Home  			            Classification NDE  			            1581 Bonnie C NDE 7180/3540  		                		              		            			      			    			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 7180  					</p>  					The reason I called 911 on March 5, 2014, was because over a period of four hours that morning (from 9:30am - 2:00pm). I had been having episodes of feeling like I was going to ‘pass out’, ‘die’, and the first few episodes involved only this feeling.  I had no other symptoms until a tremendous flash of heat that shot through my body and felt like my blood was on fire accompanied the last two episodes.  It was then I knew this was serious and I made the call.  When I saw my Electro-cardio Gram (EKG) read-out go flat-line, I was instantly out of my body, not in the Emergency Room (ER).  

Suddenly, I was totally aware I did not have an earthly body anymore. I knew it without question.  The only sense I had was sight and mindfulness.  It felt as if I was positioned centrally in a doorframe that opened into another realm straight in front of me.  It was not a tunnel.  It was a ‘space’ without defining borders.  More like getting ready to leave one ‘room’ and enter into another.  This ‘space’ I was looking into, was completely filled with white light.  The only other defining feature was a black pathway that, in my mind, seemed to be about a foot wide, but extended out in front of me and went on without end.  There were no people.  Nobody spoke to me.  There was no sound at all.  As I'm looking at the pathway I'm feeling curiosity about it and asking myself some questions like:  ’what is that for?’  ‘Where does it go?’  ‘Am I supposed to do something now?’  I said to myself, ‘this black pathway reminds me of the people mover devices you see in some airports.’  I was feeling a sense of what was happening was more real than my life in my body.  It was an extremely pleasant state of mind in which to be.  I had no fear or anxiety whatsoever.  I was enjoying this immensely. 

Suddenly I was ‘awake’ on the gurney in the Emergency Room with the Doctor and six other people around me attaching me to an external pacer device.  There was frantic activity.  As they attached the external pacer device, my EKG pattern returned on the telemetry monitor.  The Emergency Room Doctor was ‘yelling’ (it felt like he was) to me at the foot of the gurney, ‘I'm so sorry this is happening to you, but, boy, am I glad you got here when it did.’  He was holding up a printout of the EKG strip, showing it to me at the same time.  He went on, ‘We're sending you immediately to St. Joseph's Hospital, as a direct admit to Cardiac Care Unit, because you have complete heart block, need an internal pacemaker and we do not do that here.’  They loaded me into the ambulance, with the external pacer device attached and transferred me to St. Joseph's Hospital Heart Center.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/5/14

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was taken to the ER via ambulance from my home.  I was on the gurney in the ER and had been attached to cardiac telemetry because of the symptoms I had been having.  The telemetry monitor screen was positioned so I could see it at all times.  While in the room alone at the time of the event, I saw my EKG readout suddenly go ‘flat line.’  My heart stopped beating. [Editor’s Note: Telemetry Monitor allows medical professionals to track measurements and data of the heart from a remote distance.]

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The entire time I felt more ‘real’, more ‘alive’, more ‘conscious’, more ‘mindful’: I felt, without question, better than being ‘alive’ in my body as we know it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       This is difficult to answer because the entire experience was only 60 seconds in length.  I can only answer it best by saying I felt at my highest level of consciousness and alertness during the entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision was the only sense I had.  It was central, forward, no peripheral and clear, sharp, with a very pleasant white light.  The only colors I saw was the white light and the black ‘pathway.’  It felt like pure, unadulterated vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound, whatsoever, during the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was not from any fixture anywhere.  It was not like ‘sunlight’: it was a pure, white kind of light.  Not sharply bright, but pleasant and embracing me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In answering this question I have to say it felt like I was on the verge of actually entering into the space.  When I was suddenly aware I was out of my earthly body, I had the sense of like a ‘door frame’ around me, but I was still in the center of this ‘door frame’ and only looking into the unearthly space I was looking at.  I never did actually enter into it, but could only see it.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I instantly felt weightless, unburdened, unencumbered with a body, free, light, airy, and almost like I could fly.  I enjoyed it immensely.  I felt like I wanted it to stay that way.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I am a non-denominational Christian and have been since the age of 12

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have absolutely no fear of death now: none, whatsoever.  I now see death only as a transition, not something to fear.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life. I'm still in a recovery phase since I had my pacemaker inserted.  However, my experience has absolutely removed any fear whatsoever of death.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There was so much frantic activity going on around me, immediately after the event, and I was back in my body, with all my human senses again, I didn't even remember the event until several hours after I was admitted to St. Joseph's and all the commotion calmed.  Eventually, I remembered: it was at first like a ‘picture’ in my mind and then I realized what had really happened to me.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It has been only one month since my experience.  But I can say that it's as if the entire event has been "burned"  into my brain.  I can recapture the entire event in my mind like looking at a photograph now.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     It is still early since my experience, but I have a strange sense of heightened discernment about impending health related events.  I guess I wouldn't categorize it as a ‘special gift’ so much as probably a normal state of mind considering the event was life threatening.  I will soon turn 70 and at this age such events are more in the forefront of my thinking.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire event was significant to me because it confirms to me that my choice in belief is valid, true, and ‘yea though I walk through the shadow of the valley of death, thou art with me!’

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It wasn't until several hours after I was transferred to St. Joseph's Hospital, that I remembered the event.  I kept going over it, over it, over it in my own mind and it dawned on me, finally, that in those 60 seconds I had indeed had an NDE!  I didn't share it with anyone in the hospital.  It took me about a week to finally share it with my daughter who lives with me.  I also shared with my very close, dear friend (male), and my three other children.  All of them were accepting, wanting to hear about it, with a wide-eyed reaction.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had a probable NDE when I was an infant of 3 months of age.  I believe I submitted that account to this site several years ago.  As a Registered Nurse, over my 41 years of practice I have had a few patients of mine who have shared their own NDE experiences with me.  My previous knowledge of NDE did not seem to affect this experience.  Comparing this one, with the ‘probable’ one I had: they are polar opposite in certain ways.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed the reality of my experience as MORE real than the life/reality I feel, as I sit here typing this.  My view of it is not fading or ‘going away’ or being dismissed in any sense.  Why do I view it that way?  Based on my life-long belief in the God I know and my relationship with Him across seven decades.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My experience was more than the ‘real’ we are confined to in our body.  Scripture teaches me that my life here on earth is ‘not my home.’  There is eternity: life after I leave this body.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Waking up each and every day reproduces the entire experience for me.  I want it to come back because it was so pleasant.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Now that I've had it, I feel a sense of disappointment because I didn't get to enter the space, move along the pathway if that's what was intended.  I'm more curious now.

        Experience Description 3540  					</p>  					From as far back as I can remember which takes me to the age of four, until I was nine or ten years old I eagerly looked forward to going to bed at night because of a repetitive 'dream'. This 'dream' was so beautiful, so unusual, and so peaceful, so filled with love; I couldn't wait to close my eyes. I would crawl into bed, lay on my back, close my eyes in the pitch-black darkness of my bedroom and wait. Without fail, it would come to me in exactly the same way. First, there is the blackness. The simple blackness of a darkened room seen through closed eyelids. 

Next is an awareness of a blackness that's more than just closed eyes. It felt like liquid black, as if I had been submerged in a vat of ink, but it felt 'thick' like mercury. It is here I wait. Sure enough, there it is. A tiny speck of yellow light at the center of this liquid blackness, which felt like it was 'in front' of me, and very far away. I am aware of motion but I can't figure out whether I'm moving toward that light, or I'm still, and the light is coming to me. Whatever the case, the light gradually grows in size. It is a golden yellow and gives off a warmth and sense of peace, not to my body, but to my mind, heart, soul and spirit. As the light reaches me it engulfs me, takes me 'in', and I'm thrust forward like a rocket being shot off a launch pad - and I'm in my 'dream' world. A place where the word 'Technicolor' doesn't even come close.

There are no words to describe the colors. The sky is blue, but bluer than blue. It's the purity of the colors. I am suddenly aware that I have 360-degree vision. I can see all around myself. I don't have a physical body anymore. I am 'hovering' over the rooftop of my house. I'm looking at the shingles on our roof, which are old, weather beaten, in various stages of decay, and I'm thinking to myself, 'Dad needs to replace those sometime soon.' There is no sound. I see the rooftops of all of our neighbors' houses, for the full length of the street. The lawns are a lush, rich green. I see the three maple trees in our yard adorned in leaves of every shade of the rainbow. Yellow, golden, orange, rust, brown, reds, burgundy, greens, purple. So beautiful the sight feels like music could burst forth. I'm moving 'upward' now, like a helium filled balloon, rising. Now I see the entire valley we live in. Main Street, church steeples, my school, the old Paper Mill, Blum's Shoe Factory, F.A. Owen Publishing company, Kelly Brothers Nursery, the airport, Foster Wheeler Corporation, Bernard McFadden's Hotel on East Hill. And most striking of all, 'the flats' - at the North end of town. This is a ten-acre parcel of land that is pitch black with fine, silt-like soil and the site of an old Indian Reservation long since abandoned. I'm looking at our village and I feel like I'm a part of all of this. I belong here. I feel love rising from the very ground. The beauty of this place strikes me. There is harmony, purpose, reason for living here. And suddenly it's gone. I'm asleep.

I had this 'dream' in exactly the same way, every night, without fail, until I reached nine or ten years old. As a child, I believed it was just that, a 'dream'. Because it was a 'dream', it never occurred to me to share it with anybody. It was pleasant, joyful, and peaceful, a place of loving harmony and I eagerly embraced it. When it stopped happening I was very disappointed. I would go to bed trying to 'will' it to happen, come back, force it into my consciousness, but it never came back. To this day, it has not.

I never told anybody about it. I simply went on with my life but held onto my 'dream' as a wonderful 'memory'.

In 1986, I took my then five-year-old son on a vacation trip to visit his grandmother, my mother, on Marathon Key, in the Florida Keys. She had an Oceanside mobile home and one evening we sat out on the patio enjoying the ocean breeze and sharing memories of life. Suddenly she said to me, 'Bonnie, did I ever tell you about the time you died when you were three months old?' I nearly fell off my chair. She had never told me that. Ever. She went on to say, 'One day you had a high fever, were fussy, wouldn't eat, so I put you in your crib and you did fall asleep. About an hour later, I suddenly had this gut-wrenching urge to check on you. I went to your crib, you were completely blue, not breathing, not moving, and as limp as a wet dishrag. I grabbed you and ran to Dr. M's house across the street. He took you and began to blow air into you through your mouth. The office nurse called the ambulance. We went to the emergency room. It seemed like an eternity waiting. I was hysterical. Finally, Dr. M. came out. I watched his body language, the expression on his face. He came up to me, put his arms around me, hugged me and said, 'Mary, if there ever was a miracle, this is it. We had a dead baby, but she is ok now, thank God.'

I sat there in shock, listening to this. My mother had NEVER told me about that event. Then, suddenly - while sitting there in a state of shock - my 'dream' swept over me. She said I was 'three months old' - that would be in October of the year - Fall - the leaves on the Maple Trees! It hit me like a ton of bricks. It was no 'dream' at all. It couldn't have been a 'dream.' The empty slate of my infant brain had somehow recorded the transcendence of my soul, spirit, from my body to a journey beyond this earth that was interrupted by medical intervention.

In thinking back, before my mother gave me this information, as an adult I used to 'wonder' about my 'dream'. I would say to myself, 'How could I know what my neighborhood, the entire valley I lived in, looked like from a bird's eye view, having NEVER in my life been more than a few inches off the ground!?'

My mother answered many questions about my 'dream' that day. I then shared it with her. It was the first time in my life I had told anybody about it. As of this writing, it is now public knowledge. I've always been interested in NDE accounts, have read many of them, but have never heard one having to do with a three-month-old infant! My own! I am convinced beyond any doubt; I had died that day, just as my mother said.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1948

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The life threatening event was a fever so high it was incompatible with life, I went into respiratory arrest, followed by cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I arrived in my 'world', when I was thrust through the golden yellow burst of light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt 'fluid' to me. No sense of north, south, east, west. No sense of 'time' as we know it.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All colors were as if they were 'liquid.' Brighter, pure, untainted, perfect, clearer, and as if music might flow out of them.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It did not appear as, or 'feel' like a 'tunnel' to me. It felt more like a 'holding place' - I did not feel confined by any boundaries.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At first, just a tiny, tiny speck of golden yellow, circular light - like the beam of a flashlight a million miles away in the blackness.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No sense of gravity or weight at all. Unburdened. Lighter than a feather. Joy, harmony, peace, love, accepted, belonging, unity, hope are a few of the feelings.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Overwhelming feeling of being conjoined with all of creation.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience was so beyond all of our combined human senses that words in the English language become inadequate to convey this experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I can only tell you that now and then I have 'premonitions' about events that are going to take place, in advance of their happening. I have had 'dreams' showing me pictures of a piece of an event, which eventually appears, in the newspaper, or on TV. For example, one night I dreamed about a piece of an airplane, lying on the ground in a forest, revealing the call letters and numbers of the flight. I saw four or five of the letters and numbers in my dream. When I woke up it was as vivid as could be. Within a day or two, a picture appeared on the front page of the newspaper of a plane that had gone down. The picture was the same one I had in my 'dream' - the piece of the plane with the call letters and numbers and they were the same!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My experience did not take on special meaning until my mother verified some facts about which I was ignorant until I was forty-two years old. I am now sixty-three years old. What I believe today about the experience is that the experience itself was imprinted upon my body at a cellular, even DNA level, for whatever reason. I liken it to the 'transfiguration' of Jesus, just before He ascended into Heaven.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it for the first time ever, with my mother on that day when she told me about my death as an infant. I was forty-two years old when I told her.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have always been interested in NDEs. Especially as a nurse. I have been with hundreds, maybe thousands of people at the time of their death and successful resuscitation. It was a subject I had always wanted to research as a bedside nurse, but never did.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Of course it happened when I was an infant. There is no question whatsoever in my own mind concerning the reality of my experience. It is the single most experience in my entire life that transcends reality, as we know it. This was 'pure reality'.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I view it as evidence of life after the body dies. As Judge Judy always says, 'If it doesn't make sense, it's not true!' It makes no sense to me whatsoever that we are gifted with this life; in it's present form that our body dies, and that's it! We are not just 'physical'. Who kills the spirit? Who kills the soul? Nobody. They go on living somewhere, somehow.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   It now remains as a 'memory' only. But it is as vivid a 'memory' as if it happened last night. The experience itself has not occurred since I was nine or ten years old.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I consider my experience a 'death' experience based on my mother's information. I believe I died on that day. I believe my spirit and soul, had left my infant body, and was leaving this earth on a journey to some other dimension not known to us. What impresses me the most about it is there were no negative feelings or emotions at all, it was as if fear did not exist.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I believe you have covered it very well.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_c_nde.html