{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bonnie_b_nde_2982.html","mytitle":"Bonnie B NDE 2982","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bonnie B NDE 2982  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bonnie B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1058  Bonnie B NDE  2982  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was at the dentist and he asked if I had ever tried gas while my teeth were being fixed. I hadn't so he said, 'Let's give it a try.' The nurse put the blood pressure cuff on, checked it then turned on the gas. It should be noted that I had always had a very low blood pressure reading. It was low that day as well as I asked her for the reading. (80 over 60).

All of a sudden, everything was black then I saw a light like a multiple shinning radiant glowing of indescribable brilliance and I was being whisked down a tunnel at an incredible speed. There were people outside of this tunnel all along reaching out seeming to want to touch me. They were communicating with each other like a mental chatter, I couldn't recognize any of them yet they seemed familiar, like they knew me. They were like faceless figures. I was not afraid to go forward but all I could think of was no, no I need to go back to be with my children, they are too young for me to leave them, please, please, I need to go back. I kept saying my children, my children, even though I would like to stay. I didn't say it with words it was with my mind.

All of a sudden I was affirmed with I understand, you can go back, and my body was racing backwards through this tunnel so fast that the figures were a blur. The next thing I remember is I could hear the nurse saying I have a pulse and pressure now. I was so weak after I had to lie in the chair for about a half an hour before I could get up. When I got to my car I stayed in it laying my head back for another fifteen minutes before I could drive home I felt so weak. I wanted to tell someone but have waited all these years.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 circa 1972  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         very sad and under much stain  Other 'In Dentists chair, using nitrous oxide, was monitored, couldn't get  blood pressure for about 3 minutes'  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I cried out my children, my Children, I was most alert.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I cried out my children, my Children, I was most alert.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The brightness of the light.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Like a funnel narrowing to the light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Faceless figures on each side of the funnel. I seemed to know them but couldn't identify anyone. They seemed to be communicating with each or without words. Like a chatter one would hear in a gathering.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Incredible brightness I have never seen anything to compare it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       One of trust, and incredible love and joy until I thought about my children.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Community of Christ  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Community of Christ  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't tell anyone because I wasn't sure what happened and I also felt if I did they would not understand.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I felt listened to. I felt great love. I have never, ever feared death.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After hearing others at this present time with similar experiences I feel more like sharing. Never shared earlier.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has never left me and I have never denied it to myself. It was like it happened yesterday.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I heard Jeffery Long on 'Coast to Coast AM' radio show and the programs information prompted me to respond by writing this letter because he said he had never hear of someone wanting to return back.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bonnie_b_nde_2982.html