{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bon_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Bon A NDE 6497","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bon A NDE 6497  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bon A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3196 Bon A NDE 6497  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on site visiting one of my interior design projects in Mumbai. The building was under construction and everything was very basic.  For example, there were no safety grills installed yet on the huge windows. The apartment I was designing was on the sixth floor of a high rise.

It was a summer afternoon and the heat was unbearable. I had had a heavy breakfast without much to drink before coming to work. I started working, taking site measurements and so forth. Apparently, I was becoming dehydrated because I started feeling giddy and my eyesight started to dim out and then come back.  I told my staff to continue with the job while I moved to an airier space in the living room, where I felt slightly better. 

There was cement all over the floor with its dust was in the air, and there was no place to sit down.  As I've needed to wear prosthesis on my right lower leg since I was nine years old, I was not able to stand for very long, especially under these conditions. So I sat down to rest on the sill of an open window. Then everything seemed to go black.

When I opened my eyes, people were around me splashing water on my face. I was seated on the slab where a supervisor was holding my arms to support me. I felt myself shaking and trembling. As I looked around, I could not recognize anyone or anything.  They were all asking me questions, exclaiming they were so glad I had ‘returned.’ After a few minutes, I began to recognize the people in the room. They told me I had been unconscious and that my body had been shaking violently for twenty minutes before I had opened my eyes. 

Here is more about what happened:

When I sat down on that sixth floor windowsill, I could sense my eyesight dimming again. When unconsciousness overcame me, my body apparently flopped backward – out of the window – and out of the building. I don't remember any of this, but I began slipping downward. Meanwhile, the owner of the apartment, having gone down to the fifth floor to do some work with an engineer, was, by fortunate chance, standing near the open window only one floor below where my body had started its descent. As they both noticed me slipping past, the client reflexively caught hold of my leg (the natural one) and hung on to it while the engineer supported him. I was very frail in those days only weighing forty-eight kilograms [about a hundred and six pounds.] 

They held me there by one leg while the rest of my body swayed upside down outside the building. My own staff rushed to help and pulled me back in. Meanwhile, *I* had slipped straight into another world and into another life. There I was seeing everything as another person – and I don't mean I was ‘looking at’ another person. I *was* that person.  I mean, it wasn't like watching a video tape – It was real.  I was witnessing the world around me – a different world – as a different person.   

This other ‘me’ was lying in a four-poster bed. My body and legs were under the covers, so I couldn't see the rest of me. What I could see were the people who were standing there – my elder brother (around twelve years old) and my mother. They were both brown-skinned and dark complexioned. Not the same family I have now. They seemed to belong to the Indian middle class. I vividly remember the ambiance of the room. My brother and mom were standing together near my bed and having a conversation. I do not remember the details of that conversation now, because I did not try to remember it by repeating it to myself over and over when I came into this life again, the way I did with the details of some of the other experiences I had as that person. They were both talking with serious faces, although the conversation itself was not about anything serious. I lay on the bed listening to them. I remember thinking of myself as a girl child, bored by their ordinary talk. Neither were paying attention to me, entertaining me or smiling at me. I closed my eyes and kept them closed for a long time, hearing their conversation but not paying attention to it.

When I opened my eyes, I was back at the construction site! I didn't understand what my body was, who I was or where I was, or who the people around me were. All I knew about myself was from that other life.  

Later while discussing the events with the supervisor, I was told they had been splashing water on my face and trying to wake me up for a long time. I had not sensed any of this while I was in the other life. I was not connected to this body at all! Afterwards, I spent long days in disbelief. I began recollecting and correlating things about my current life. In my heart I always ‘knew’ that the other life was the real world. It was as real as this one and it was not a dream. Even though I had seen no white light nor passed through a tunnel nor had I floated above my body, I had nevertheless gone to another reality. I had been transported straightaway to the life of a different person. For days after the incident, whenever I recalled that life, this one would seem unreal and when I'd try to convince myself that this life was what I'd lived for twenty-five years, my soul refused to believe that I hadn't been living the other life.

I've never remembered the transition events not my fall from the sixth floor window, not the two Samaritans catching me and saving me from crashing to the ground, not the people carrying me in, nor being splashed with water for a long time. While that was going on, I had transitioned to the other life! The events I experienced there, I remember very well!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The profound consciousness came after I began assimilating and understanding what I had experienced. This happened days after the incident.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was as normally alert throughout the experience as we are in our current daily lives.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time was so slow, it seemed like forever. Time just did not pass.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same as always.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same as always.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Indifferent, casual and relaxed, the way every little kid feels when their family isn't entertaining them.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I realized that both that life and this one seemed equally real while I was living them. Once out of that life, it was difficult to believe that it no longer held significance or relevance in my existing lifetime. Consequentially, I realized that this life, too, which seems so real and serious to me now, is not a reality.  It is probably a projection of my mind just like that other life was. It all depends on which projection I'm currently living in. Once it's over, it will hold no meaning, just like I cannot use that life (or its relations, property, objects) in this life anymore. But ‘I’ remain immortal, whether I live that life or this one. I keep living through everything! Truth is ‘that which never changes.’ In my experience, the lives that keep ever changing are not the Truth. Then what is truth? Me, I am the only truth.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Hindu   Had been reading the Bhagavad Geeta since several years before the incident. This incident marked the onset of my Kundalini Energy activation.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Ever since the NDE, I have been on a spiritual path, studying and learning. I will continue on this path for as long as I exist.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Hindu   Although a Hindu, I do not believe in religious rituals. I do not hold fasts nor do I worship idols. Am rather a follower of Humanity (Saamaanya Dharma) that forms the core of Hinduism. I have been this way forever.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Before the NDE, my Hindu culture had always taught me about reincarnations and rebirths... but I had learned that this series of lifetimes occurs one after the other... in a row... It was a totally new discovery for me to find that the mind can be switched to play different lifetimes at the same time. All my spiritual study and research started only after this NDE... when I realized that what I already knew was only partial Truth.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Before the NDE, my Hindu culture had always taught me about reincarnations and rebirths. I had been taught that this series of lifetimes occurs one after the other, in a row. It was a totally new discovery for me to find that the mind can be switched to play different lifetimes at the same time. All my spiritual study and research started only after this NDE, when I realized that what I had known up until that point was only partial Truth.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Not "during" the experience, but I realized the continuity after returning to this life.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     In that life, I was content and one with the world... There was a sense of unity and calmness... I felt one with everything around... unlike my ongoing lifetime.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   From time to time, that experience unravels itself further and brings new lessons for me. Apart from learning what true love is, I saw what a fiction ‘Life’ is and it put me in touch with the observer of these two lifetimes, which is me.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Not DURING the experience, but after returning to this current lifetime.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I realized that both that life and this seemed equally real when I was living them. But once out of that life, it was difficult to believe that it no more held significance or relevance in my existing lifetime. Consequentially, I realized that this life t

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     The life I was transported to had me born to a family with modest means. From the room around, it was evident that they were much poorer than where I stand in this lifetime.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     In that life... I KNEW that my elder brother loved me very much - I was his pet. And that love was REAL, it was COMPLETE... unlike the family love I've seen in this lifetime that's hinged with selfish interest at some point or another. It is beyond words.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs I had at the time of my experience   Before the NDE, my Hindu culture had always taught me about reincarnations and rebirths. I had learned that this series of lifetimes occurs one after the other, in a row. It was a totally new discovery for me to find that the mind can be switched to play different lifetimes at the same time. All my spiritual study and research started only after this NDE, when I realized that what I had known up until that point was only partial Truth.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Once I returned from the NDE, for many days I could not relate to THIS world. So I kept revising my memories of THAT world in an effort to keep it alive. I was so perplexed between the two realities that maybe I thought I should have my equipment ready in case I was again destined to return to THAT world. I was so intrigued by the findings that I kept revising the memories repeatedly. Other events in my life around that time were not revised by me like this... So in an order of priority, my mind washed them off and kept this one alive.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     1) I began witnessing miracles practically every day. Impossible things would happen and facilitate what was safest and most convenient for me.   2) My inner voice was awakened, and I'm not speaking about conscience. My conscience has always been active. I have been a hardcore righteous person all my life, with strict discipline in every aspect. My inner voice would guide my actions. Following it would bring great prosperity and goodness for all.   3) My Kundalini Energy awakened.   4) I was assigned my purpose in life.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience is humbling and empowering.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After the NDE, the only thing my family knew was that I had fallen from the 6th floor, gone unconscious for some time and then woken up. I did not tell my family anything else because the first person that I spoke to about what had happened, just minutes after the experience, behaved as if it was a casual, everyday thing that happens to everybody, and that he ‘knew it all.’ So I stopped right there. I didn't want to impart a Divine Experience to such ‘know-it-all.’ In my mind, I kept marveling about it and exploring what I had gone through. I am still on that track.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Whenever I recall it, it still seems as real as it seemed then. Then it makes me laugh about how seriously we take our current lives.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bon_a_nde.html