{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bobby_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Bobby T NDE 22352","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bobby T NDE 22352  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bobby T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2477 Bobby T NDE 22352  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On 9/8/1995 I was in the hospital for a day surgery. Background: June 28 1994 Injury sustained from a head-on auto accident. My right ankle was crushed, and extreme and radical surgeries needed to repair the damage. My bone marrow had an infection earlier in 1994 and I had a Groshong catheter in my chest that went directly to the heart. I had finished using the catheter. I went in for the day surgery and they use the Groshong catheter thus flushing my body with gram-negative sepsis. I woke from surgery with the incredible desire to puke, and I tried with nothing in my stomach, I did not go home I was admitted for observation.

 Around 4:30 a.m. I apparently woke for former wife and she came to my bedside. I am in a state darkness and clarity fading in and out of kind of a sleep. Cathy touched my forehead and called for a nurse explaining that I was burning up. The nurse came, took my temperature, and ran out of the room giving orders for Ice and ICU. During this time, I entered into a state I have never experienced before. First, I saw myself lying in bed at home. Then I was lying in bed with the nurses around me and Cathy was arguing with the neighbors about the DOG BARKING (key words) during this event, Cathy asked me where I was and I told her the hospital.

Ninety days later, I received a letter from the court to appear for a hearing about a complaint from the neighbor. We went to court, I had no lawyer (waste of resources) and during court, we got outside the boundaries typical of two lawyers arguing in court. The Judge stopped the words spoken and gave me direction that we could only argue what happened on what particular date.  I explained to the Judge I was in the hospital dying of an extremely high temperature and yes, my dog was probably BARKING since I was not able to go home and let him in.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  9-08-1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    107.4 fever  Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was lying in bed at the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fever of 107.4. I was dying.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my nurses and heard my wife speaking to the neighbors.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None at the time.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was very peaceful until I became conscious, then I felt like I was fighting.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bobby_t_nde.html