{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bobby_nde.html","mytitle":"Bobby NDE 2678","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bobby NDE 2678  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bobby NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						882  Bobby NDE  2678  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was leaving an art show at the local art gallery that I had put together for the artists I was acting as agent for when I was struck in the middle of a busy intersection by a car. The driver was not looking at where she was going but looking at the Christmas decorations on the building behind me, she did not see me until she hit me. I saw her coming and thought she was going to drive around me into the furthest lane, but she didn't and hit me full force. I knew she was going to hit me before she did and I realized there was absolutely nothing I could do to prevent being struck as she was traveling too fast. I remember making eye contact with the driver just before the car struck me and the last thing I remember thinking before I blacked out was, 'Who is going to tell my son I am dead?' My son's face also flashed before my eyes. The car struck my left side of my left knee. I remember that my feet were forced out from under me. I remember being thrown over the car hood, but not totally, and landing on the side of the top of the hood. Then I was being thrown forward in front of the car and actually being pushed down the road after I hit the ground the first time with the impact actually lifting me back up to be propelled even further. I saw or felt all of this happening as if it was going through a slow motion but I also realized that it happened very quickly. According to the witness, I had been hit and pushed.  Then I was thrown about seventy feet down the street before I made heavy contact with the ground. It was the actual speed that the driver was traveling at, and the exact moment that she swerved to the left, that actually caused me to be thrown clear of the car, otherwise the car would have driven over the top of me.

I am not aware of when I blacked out.  I do remember seeing the rooftop of the City Hall.  That is right in front of the intersection, which is a tall building and the rooftop of the office building.  It is a fair distance down the street from where I was hit.  I also saw the local library, which is behind a copse of trees that should have been hidden from my view from where I was. I remember after I woke up that I was curious how I had seen these images when I was on the ground. I woke up in a prone sitting position, again left wondering later how I had managed to be sitting up when I came to. I felt absolutely no pain nor fear. I actually had felt calm and serene. I believed that I had just been nudged by the car, pushed down, and that everything was okay.  I just had to pick myself up and dust myself off. 

I discovered later from the main the witness that he had jumped out of his vehicle with a blanket, he later told me he was bringing it to cover me up because he thought I was dead. He had prepared himself to accept witnessing a terrible accident and seeing a person be killed. Then I sat up.  He went into a bit of a shock and he needed counseling to deal with what he had endured because of my accident. People tried to lift me up to get me off the street but I pushed everyone away and managed to get up on my own. My entire body felt swollen, especially the bottom half, but still I felt no pain. It was at that time that I thought that maybe I didn't get hit by the car, after all I was walking and talking. I was told afterwards that another witness who was a nurse had called an ambulance as soon as she saw it happen; she also was expecting the worst. After they helped seat me on a nearby bench the ambulance, fire truck and police showed up and I was taken to the hospital. There they discovered multiple breaks, fractures and joint dislocations as well as internal bleeding and numerous contusions and soft tissue injuries.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 December 2, 2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Allergic reaction     I have had a brush with cancer 10 years ago, a life threatening allergic reaction 14 years ago and the mentioned car accident 6 years ago.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was stuck by a car as a pedestrian.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I just felt that I was totally aware of every minute detail. The color of the buildings, whether they were brick or wood or concrete. The actual designs and individual colors of each brick in the brick-lay of a building was obvious to me.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the car was not going to avoid hitting me and again when I saw the rooftops and upper floors of the surrounding buildings.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Only at the time directly after the moment of the impact I felt as though I was totally removed from the accident as if I were watching it from a distance. I saw nothing at all except for the tops and rooftops of the buildings.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was much clearer and in focus. I am near sighted but was able to see things in the distance very clearly. Colors were very vibrant.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear anything whatsoever from the time just before the car hit me until after I woke up.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my son at the opened front door of our house. I saw he had a very blank and shocked face.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness to a point of feeling serene and at peace with everything. Even when I was worried about how my son was going to take my death, I felt assured that all would be well. At one instant I felt an overwhelming maternal instinct and deep sadness when I envisioned my son's face as he was being told I was dead.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Spiritual but not religious  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Spiritual but not religious  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My youngest son, whom was my caretaker following the accident, and I have become almost inseparable.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always had enhanced premonitions and predictions. My intuition and foresight has always been strong. But after the accident, these abilities increased greatly over time. I have made many detailed premonitions that have come true and have happened over a short span of time. Also, my mother had passed away around one and a half years after my accident. About six months after she passed I saw her sitting in front of me. She was extremely realistic; it was as though I was looking at another person in the room. There were other people present. She didn't speak to me but she was looking at me with what I felt was such a strong and overwhelming look of love that I was overcome with the emotion. It was funny that she was sporting a hairstyle that she wore back when I was a teenager and she was wearing a sweater that I always teased and made fun of. She looked very happy with a knowing look on her face. She seemed to be telling me that everything will work out and all will be well.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was told later that after I had come to I had asked one of the witnesses to go to the art gallery I had just left to tell my artists that I was okay and not to worry. I had somehow realized that the news would get to them and because of my distinguishable appearance they would know it was me and leave the show to check on me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Two weeks after I discussed it with my lawyer, he was not surprised and he seemed to believe what I was saying and understood. I spoke about the actual accident to a few friends who asked.  Besides that, I ignored what happened to me. I found that most people did not want to talk about such a bad experience and had a difficult time accepting and dealing with my physical pain and recuperations. I didn't speak to anyone about the emotional side for close to three years and then it was a professional psychic that was drawn to me at a convention that I finally opened up to. She explained a lot to me that helped me understand more. That meeting helped me to open up and share my accident and feelings in detail with my son (who was eleven years old at this time), and who was my caretaker and helped nurse me back to health. Because he was my primary caretaker and so afraid that he had almost lost me. He did not want to discuss the actual accident. My son is quite aware of my strong insight and often asks me to help make decisions or read into people and/or events concerning him. Friends often come to me for strong insight and advice.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had also had a severe allergic reaction to a prescribed medication that took over a year to recuperate from. The doctors said I was about five minutes away from clinical death when they treated me.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't view it shortly after the experience. I actually turned into myself and ignored the fact that it happened in order to deal with the pain and recuperation. I in fact did not want to even discuss it and felt I was being pushed and forced to re-live it when it became a legal lawsuit against the driver.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I realize and accept what had happened.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   My son and I were crossing at a crosswalk three years after my accident when an almost exact replica of my accident happened again. Only this time it was my son and I in the middle of the crosswalk.  He was walking slightly in front of me and I pulled him back out of the way for the oncoming speeding car most assuredly would have struck him. I then went into a combination of crying and screaming angrily as I followed the car into a parking lot. I was so angry I wanted to cause harm to the unsuspecting driver, I couldn't believe that they didn't even realize that they had almost hit my son. My son physically restrained me in the parking lot until I was able to control myself.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Two days before my accident I was leaving my friend's art supply store to catch a bus to go to my Art Gallery to open up for business for the day. I was carrying a lot of heavy bags and packages. When I got to the bus stop there was an elderly gentleman also waiting for the bus. He approached me and asked me if he had enough money to get on the bus. I assured him that he didn't and how much the fare was for seniors. He reached into his pocket only to find he did not have enough money. He stood there with a bit of a confused look on his face but did not ask me for any money to help him. I immediately put all of my packages on the ground and started rummaging through my purse to find the correct change that would help him. I remember that even though I did this without being asked I felt impatient and frustrated, (which I did not show), at having to put everything down in the freezing cold and the wind and snow whipping around us. When I gave him the money, he accepted it but didn't say thank you. But he did turn back around towards me and say, 'An angel will smile down on you for this kindness'. I just smiled as I was picking all of my packages back up and didn't think about this meeting again until maybe a month after my accident.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I am pleased with what you have already offered.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bobby_nde.html