{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 1760","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v1_n5_jun_1884.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V1 N5 June 1884","mylang":"de"}
No. V.J ,Jnu:, 1884.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTBNTS.
PAGE PAGB
Meetfngs of Council ... . . • . . .• 691 The Magnetic Glow . . . . . . . . •. 83
Elections, May 28th and Jnne 6th, 1884 .. 70 Research Fund .. •• .. . . . . . . . . 83
General Meetinp; . . . . .. . . . . . . 71 On Vision with Sealed and Bandaged Eyes 8'
Specimens of the Classification of Caaea Correspondence: The Arundel Case. , . . 86
for .. Phantaams of the Living.· II. 77 Supplementary Library Catalogue 88
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
.
A Council Meeting was held on May the 28th, the President in the
chair, when the Rev. W. Stainton Moses, Messrs. Alexander Calder,
Edmund Gurney, C. C. Massey, F. W. H. Myers, and F. W. Percival
were present. After the minutes of the previous meeting had been read,
eight new Members and Associates were elected, whose names and
addresses are given on another page.
A resolution was passed agreeing to accept the offer made by the
Theosophical Society for the exchange of pUblications.
Agreements were laid on the table by the House and Finance Com-
mittee, between Dr. IN. H. Stone and the Society, for the premises at
14, Dean's Yard, for three years from Lady Day, 1884 ; and also between
the Society and Mr. Frank Podmore, for the occupation by him of part
of the premises. [These agreements have been approved by the respec-
tive parties, and have since been executed.] ,
The ordinary monthly meeting of the Council was held on June the
6th, the President in the chair, when Professor Barrett, and Messrs.
Alexander Calder, Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney, C. C. Massey,
Edward R. Pease, Francis W. Percival, and F. Podmore were present.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Professor J. C. Adams, F.R.S., of the Observatory, Cambridge, was
elected as an honorary memller.
Ten new Members and Associates were elected, whose names and
addresses are given on another page.
The Council receiveq with regret information of the death of Major
T. B. Hamilton, a member of the Society and of one of the Committees.
It was agreed that a General }[eeting of the Society be held on
Digitized by Google
';'0 Journal of Society jol' Psychical Researcll. [June, 1884.
Monday, the 30th inst., at 8.30 p.m., at Queen Anne's Mansions, at
which the following papers will be read :-
1. Account of some ExperimentB in Thought-transference, by
Prof. O. J. Lodge, D. Sc.
2. Note on soma Experiments in MeBmeriBm.
3. Further Report on Phenomena attested by members of the
TheoBophical Society.
4. Conclusion of the Fourth Report of the Literary Committee.
The second edition of Part II. of the Proceedings being nearly
exhausted, it was agreed that a third edition of 1,000 copies be printed;
also that a further supply of bound copies of Volume I. be ordered.
A donation of £5 to the Research Fund was announced from.
General Campbell, and of £15 from" A Friend."
The next Meeting of the Council will take place on Monday, June
the 30th, at 4.30 p.m.
ELECTIONS, MAY 28TH AND JUNE 6TH, 1884.
HONORARY MEMBER.
ADAMS, PROFESSOR, J.C., LL.D., F.R.S., The Observatory, Cambridge.
MEMBERS.
HERRINGHAM, MRS., 22, Bedford Square, London, W.C.
KELSO, COMMANDER, R.N., 26, Hyde Park Square, London, W.
LEAF, WALTER, M.A., Old Change, London, E.C.
~YLANDS, THOMAS GLAZEBROOK, F.L.S., F.G.S., Highfields, Thelwall,
near Warrington.
ASSOCIATES.
BIDDER, GEORGE P., Trinity College, Cambridge.
BROWNE, EDWARD G., B.A., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
DOWNING, CHARLES, Trevethan, Brentwood, Essex.
EADEN, MRS., Little Shelford, Cambridge.
HORNER, ANDREW L., B.A., Limavady, Co. Londonderry.
ROLLESTON, THOMAS W., Glasshouse Shinrone, Ireland.
SKENE, MISS F. M. F., 13, New Inn, Hall Street, Oxford.
STEVENSON, ARTHUR J., Trinity College, Cambridge.
TEMPLETON, J. Murray, 1, Park Circus, Glasgow.
TENYANT, MRS., 2, Richmond Terrace, Whitehall, London, S.W.
TENNANT, MISS DOROTHY, 2, Richmond Terrace, Whitehall, London,
S.W.
TENNANT, MISS LAURA, 35, Grosvenor Square, London, W.
WILLIAMS, THOMAS, B.A., LL.B., 71, Bouverie Street, Chester.
'VRIGHT, ARTHUR J., M.A., Kensington Palace Mansions, London, W .
. N.B.-MemberB andAssooiateB are reqU8Bted to send information of any
change of addreBB to the ABBistant-Secreta.ry, 14, Dean'B Yard, Westminster, S.W.
Digitized by Google
June, 1884.] Journal oj Society jor Psychical Research. 71
GENERAL MEETING.
The eighth General Meeting of the Society was held on Wednesday
afternoon, May 28th, at the Garden Mansion, St. James's Park.
Professor Sidgwick took the chair at 4 o'clock, and delivered an open-
ing address. He said that, in view of certain recent criticisms, he thought
he might with advantage take up the subject of the general scientific'
position of the Society, on which he had ma.de some remarks a year ago.
He began by exposing the totally baseless nature of the assertion that
" physiology would be overthrown" if Thought-transference were ad-
mitted as proved; and pointed out that not a single positive conclusion of
physiology, and not a single "working hypothesis"of physiological method,
would have to be abandoned in consequence of such an addition to our
knowledge. It was simply a matter of evidence. Passing to the
question whether evidence enough had been produced, he admitted the
need of a large number of mutually corroborative testimonies; and con-
sidered that it was impossible to say exactly how much evidence was
wanted. There was a balance of conflicting improbabilities; and the
improbability that the evidence should be false naturally appeared
greater or less to different persons according to what they per-
sonally knew of the witnesses. It was impossible to de:6..n,.e, with
exactness, the legitimate requirements of "a fair mind" in matters so
unfamiliar. At the same time critics singularly failed to appreciate the
. kind and degree of the evidence already obtained; there being a con-
siderable number of experiments where, if any collusion took place, the
experimenters themselves must have been in the trick; while the only
alternative to collusion was most abnormal stupidity. Professor Sidg-
wick went on to speak of hypn()tic or mesmeric "community of sensa-
tion," and pointed out the very strong claim that the historic evidence
on this subject has to consideration; in that at the time (some 40
years ago) when that evidence was on the tapis, and was scornfully
repudiated by orthodox medical opinion, other hypnotic phenomena, the
genuineness of which is now admitted by every instructed physiologist
(such as hypnotic anresthesia), were repudiated with equal scorn; and the
fact that hypnotised "subjects" allowed their legs to be cut off with-
out showing a sign of discomfort was undeniably explained by
calling them "hardened impostors." Professor Sidgwick next con-
sidered the argument which represents the Society's demand for
quantity of evidence as a confession of the badness of its quality.
He showed what is the true relation of quantity to quality.
It is just because the quality of much of the evidence is very good-
so that the supposition of its falsity requires that abnormal motiveless
deceit, or abnormal stupidity or carelessness, shall be imputed to persons
Digitized by Coog
72 Journal qf Societ;/I for Psychical Research. [June, las.
hitherto reputed honest and intelligent-that an increase in the number of
8uch items of evidence is so important; for the improbability of the falsity
of the testimony thus rapidly becomes enormous. Finally, Profe8Sor
Sidgwick noticed the demand of critics that evidence should be got which
can be repeated at will; pointing out that as Thought-transference, if
genuine, depends primajacie on the establishment of a certain relation
between two nervous systems, and as the conditions of this relation are
unknown, it would be naturally expected that they would be sometimes
absent, sometimes present,' in an inexplicable way. The Indian
Theosophists, however, professed to have a large amount of contem-
porary evidence for the production of telepathic phenomena at will;
and a provisional report on some of this evidence would now be laid
before the meeting.
Mr. J. H. Stack then read the following Report of the Committee:
"On Contemporary Evidence as to 'Phantasms oj the Living in
India.' "
Some accounts of apparitions in the East were given at the
Occasional Meeting, on April 30th, by Colonel Olcott and Mr. Mohini
Chatterji. The Committee appointed to take notes of the evidence
which Colonel Olcott kindly volunteered to give us have held two ex-
aminations,; the shorthand notes of the first sitting have been already
printed and will be circulated amongst the members of the Society. These
notes will, before long, be issued in extenso, as a separate narrative.
At the meeting on April 30th, the cases connected with Damodar
were narrated at considerable length by Colonel Olcott, and supported by
the production of documents. Damodar is Secretary to the Theosophical
Society, and a Brahmin of high caste. At Moradabad, on the evening of
the 10th November, 1882, he announced apropos of a decision by Colonel
Olcott, that he would go in the double or phantasm to the headquarters
of the Society, more than 1,000 miles away, and obtain a modification of
it. He shut himself up in his room, came out in a few minutes and
gave a message purporting to come from Headquarters, situate at
Adyar, a suburb of Madras. The message was taken down and
attested by several witnesses. He then added that a confirmation of it
would come by telegram, and this actually occurred the next morning
-the delay being caused by the fact that the telegram was a night
message forwarded at a lower rate and therefore deferred, although it
was actually despatched the night before, 25 minutes after Damodar had
announced its contents at Moradabad. The receipt and perusal of the
telegram on the date given is attested by several witnesses, and the
telegraph paper has been preserved. Completely to investigate this
case would require the examination in India of several witnesses, the
procurement of negative evidence from the officials as to the non-
June, 1884.] Journal of Soci.etylOt' Psychical Re8earch. 73
despatch of any collusive message, and clear proof of the utter impOs-
sibility of confederacy.
The other Damodar case is of a similar character; he announced an
accident to Madame Blavatsky which was only made known by tele-
gram the next day and which he could not have possibly ascertained in
the ordinary way.
We have also accounts by Colonel Olcott of his interview with a
" :l\Iahatma" in the double or phantasm at New York, and his subsequent
interview with the same person in the flesh years afterwards in India.
In the first instance, the visitor came through a closed door in an upper
chamber, and in the second instance visited Colonel Olcott in the
ordinary way-that is, was not only seen but heard and touched. The
two were, to all outer appearance, the same man. Colonel Olcott was also
visited by Koot Hoomi in the flesh.
Accounts were given to us of the rapid transportation of letters
from India to Europe, and from one part of India to another by means
only commanded by the Mahatmas.
The Committee inquired whether Colonel Olcott would use his
influence with Madame Blavatsky to induce her to produce phenomena
of the same kind here, and he promised to second any request we may
make.
A question on this subject was put by one of the Committee :-
To have the official stamp of the Bombay Post Office and the official stamp
of the London Post Office of the same date on one letter is, of course, im-
possible by ordinary means, but according to the power of the Mahatmas it is
possible. Why should not a Mahatma achieve a phenomenon, which is so
easy for him, and which would be so li&tisfactory to us 1
COLONEL OLCOTT: In one of the certificates in the pamphlet I have
alluded to, it is stated that a letter was delivered at Bombaybearing the post-
mark of Allahabad of the same date, the two places being about 1,000 miles
apart. What has been done once may be done again if the conditioDs are
favourable and the Mahatmas are pleased to exercise their powers.
It is obvious that it would be very interesting if the actual letter
itself, thus abnormally conveyed, could be brought to Europe and
exhibited here.
It will be seen from this evidence that the Damodar cases belong to
the class of transferred impressions--or telepathic communications from
mind to mind-the class to which we refer so many-other" phantasms
of the living." But these cases have one point of peculiarity. For
although Damodar, according to the account, was seen, or, perhaps, we
should rather say,perceived, by Madame Blavatsky, yet such perception
was due apparently to the abnormal powers claimed by that lady. One
other person at headquarters heard his voice, but did not see him. This
distinguishes the story from the generality of those supplied by our
Digitized by Google
74 Journal of Society for Psgchiclll Research. [Junl',1884.
correspondents at home. Our witnesses in the latter cases are not
persons possessing, or presumed to possess, abnormal powers; theyJ
exercising ordinary faculties, saw, or were impressed by, apparitions of
ordinary human beings. But the agents and percipients in these Indian
cases are like Glendower; they "are not in the roll of common men" ;
they lay claim to exceptional faculties, and to investigate exhaustively
their credentials and title deeds would carry the Committee far beyond
the scope and aim of any investigation hitherto conducted by the
Society.
For instance, in the records already collected by the Society for
Psychical Research of "phantasms of the living," the evidence that the
persons so seen were" living" was full and complete. But although the
" apparitions JJ of Mahatma M-- are clearly reported by Colonel
Olcott and others, the evidence for the ordinary human existence of the
Mahatma is slight; he was only seen once in the flesh. In dealing
with persons who are said to live in more senses than one above the
world and out of the world, this difficulty is inevitable; but it takes
the cases of their abnormal apparition out of the category of narratives
already recorded of ordinary men, who, known daily to their friends
and neighbours as persons living an ordinary human life, yet appeared
"far off to witnesses who saw them in their habit as they lived.
We enter, in short, in these Oriental cases into a realm where
there is a certain amount of religious enthusiasm and esoteric mystery.
It would be impossible for our Society to penetrate the mountains of
Thibet, and ascertain the existence of a fraternity supposed to inspire
men and control events. We cannot command the attendance of any
one of their disciples. We cannot compel answers to the questions
which we send. Even if we follow up the investigation already com-
menced, our inquiries will have to be forwarded to India, and addressed
to persons practically beyond cross-examination. It is obvious, there-
fore, that this section of the Society's work is carried on underspecial
disadvantages, and can hardly be pursued, in England at least, with
scientific thoroughness.
With reference generally to these Oriental phenomena, it seems
to us that the Society may fairly draw a distinction between
isolated facts, the recurrence of which cannot be anticipated, and any
systematic series of abnormal events. It has made diligent inquiry-
personal, searching, and minute-into individual cases of impression and
apparitions at the point of death, and has done so because there is no
probability that we can calculate the date when such incidents may be
repeated and observed by ourselves. But, with reference to the
incidents of modem Spiritualism and of Indian Theosophy, the policy
of the Society is in the main distinct. The Spiritualists not only record
Digitized by Google
June, 18tH.] Journal of Societylor P8ychical Re8earch. 75
an immense mass of abnormal facts as having occurred under certain
conditions in the presence of ccrtain sensitives or mediums, but they
assert that these phenomena. will probably recur should the same' con-
ditions be observed, and in presence of the same mediums. Instead,
therefore, of collecting and collating the immense mass of marvels re-
corded as having occurred in the presence of mediums, and attested by
many respectable writers, including living witnesses, the better course
seems to be to institute prnctical investigations, with a hope of their
recurrence under our own eyes and with strict securities against
collusion or fraud. Our attitude towards the Theosophists must be, to
a great extent, the same. Their marvels do not belong only to the past;
they recur, as they assert, daily, and at the will of those who direct and
guide the Theosophical Society. We are, therefore, not obliged to
exhaustively examine their records, if we can, through their courtesy,
secure the repetition in England or India, under satisfactory tests, of the
a.bnormal incidents they report as being within their power.
At the conclusion of the Literary Committee's Report, some further
discussion was raised on Colonel Olcott's evidence, and Mr. E. D. Ewen,
of Chattisgarh, Central Provinces, India., stated that he had himself, a
few days ago (on Friday, May 23rd, at about 10 p.m.), received a visit
from Mr. Damodar in the astral body. He, Mr. Ewen, had gone to an
upstairs room, at 77, Elgin-crescent, W., to replenish his tobacco-pouch.
He was in the act of doing so from a store of tobacco in a drawer,
when he suddenly perceived Damodar standing beside him. He .
recognised Damodar distinctly, having previously known him personally
in India. His first impression was that Damodar had come to see
Colonel Olcott, who was in the house at the time. He (Mr. Ewen)
rushed out on to the landing, and called to Colonel Olcott. As he stood
on the landing, just outside the door of the room in which he had seen
Damodar, Damodar appeared to pass through him, to emerge from the
room without sensible contact, although the door was not wide enough to
admit of a normal exit, while Mr. Ewen stood in front of it, without a
collision, which Mr. Ewen must have felt. After thus apparently passing
through him, the form of Damodar descended the stairs for some little
way and then seemed to disappear through a closed window.
It was here suggested by the members of the Committee for Inquiry
into Contemporary Apparitions of the Living in India., that a telegram
should be sent to India to obtain, if possible, corroboration for this
narrative. It was not, of course, considered possible to prove that no
communication other than such telegram could have been sent to Mr.
Damodar, before an answer could be received from India; but it was
felt that it would at any rate be interesting to observe what light might
be thrown by Mr. Damodar's reply on the question whether l\Ir.
Digitized by Google
76 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [June, 1884.
Ewen's vision was of a purely subjective character. Colonel Olcott
assented to this suggestion, and offered that the telegram should be sent
inhis name, so as to ensure a reply from Mr. Damodar. Accordingly,
at the close of the meeting (7 p.m.) the following telegram was de-
spatched from the Westminster (Parliament Street) telegraph office, Mr.
F. W. H. Myers being present, on behalf of the Committee, with other
witnesses :-" Olcott to Damodar, Adyar, Madras. Have you visited
London lately 7 Write Myers full details." It was considered desirable
that the reply should be directed to a member of the Committee, and any
reply will be at once reported to the Committee. Colonel Olcott stated
that he believed that Damodar frequently visited distant countries in
the astral body, and that he felt some doubt as to his recollecting the
details. However this may be, the Committee feel that they ought to
lose no opportunity which offers itself of submitting to some sort of
practical test these frequently-repeated accounts of appearances in II the
double."
Mr. Ewen proceeded to state that he believed himself to possess, at
certain times, the power of discovering an aura or luminous atmosphere
surrounding all living persons, and varying in colour, extension, &c.,
according to their mental or physical state. He stated that he could
sometimes discern, by a change in the aura, the variations in the in-
tensity of the thought of anyone whom he was observing.
Mr. Stack stated that he had recently made some experiments of this
kind with Mr. Ewen, which, so far as they went, corroborated this
assertion, but were not sufficiently numerous for safe induction.
Mr. Myers then read the first part of' the fourth Report of the
Literary Committee, which continued the subject of a II Theory of
Apparitions." The cases dealt with in this report were visible appear-
ances, representing to the eyes or mind of the percipient some absent
friend or relation, who, at the time, was actually dying or in some
special crisis or danger. Such cases could be arranged in a graduated
series, beginning with those where the vision was internal, seen (so 'to
speak) in the mind's eye, and ending with those where the phantasm
had the air of a solid figure in three dimensions, distinctly localised in
space, and acting to all appearance in an independent manner. Con-
siderable attention was given to the intermediate cases, where the
phantasm is projected, like a picture, on some convenient surface. All
these visual phantasms were treated as projections of the percipient's
own brain, and to that extent as hallucinations; but the projection was
the result of a true telePathic impulse, due to the exceptional condition
of the distant friend.
The remainder of the Report will be read at the next General Meet..
ing, on Monday, June 30th.
Digitized by Google
June, 1884.] Journal qf Society lor Psychical Research. 77
SPECIMENS OF THE CLASSIFICATION OF CASES FOR
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
II.
In the last number of this Jouma! we considered a group of cases
where the telepathic impact is of the vaguest kind, and effects nothing
beyond a general impression of calamity, not associated with any
definite person. The transition to cases where there is a clear impres-
sion of the agent's personality is gradual in several ways. Thus
I. The percipient may refer the impression to one of several persons.
II. When (as seems sometimes to be the case) this kind of suscepti-
bility is hereditary in 8 family, one member of the family may identify
the agent and another may fail to do so.
III. The same percipient may be on one occasion uncertain or
mistaken as to the agent, and on other occasions may identify the
agent correctly.
As illustrations of the first mode of transition, we may refer to
two cases already printed, viz., Bishop Wilberforce's exclamation " I
am sure that something has happened to one of my sons," and Mr.
A. C.'s "strange feeling that there was something happening at myoid
home in Scotland." In cases like these the evidence for identification
is very slight, as it would be to the absent sons, or to the home in
'Scotland, that anxious thoughts might most naturally turn.
To illustrate the second mode of transition we may cite the follow-
ing case, taken down by one of us from the lips of the Sir A. B. of the
story himself.
Sir A. B.'s father, in the year 1802, when returning from a tiger hunt in
India, had a strong impression, or rather conviction, that his father (Sir
A. B.'8 grandfather), who was then in Ireland, was dead. He told one of
the friends who accompanied him, of his impression. The llext mail from
England brought the Jlews of the death on the very day referred to.
Sir A. B. had heard this story from his father's lips, and had also read
it in his father's journal.
On the occasion of his father's and also of his sister's death, Sir A. B.
himself wss oppressed with a vague, but heavy sens~ of calamity, shortly
before the receipt of the messenger, or telegram, which summoned him to
the death-bed.
So strong was his impression of calamity, that on the second occasion he
even told his servant that he was sure some misfortune was about to happen
to him.
In the first of these three cases the impression seems to have been
coincident with the death. In the second and third it appears to have
coincided with the direction of the thoughts of the dying person to the
percipient, and the despatch of the summons to the death-bed.
Digitized by Google
78 Journal qf Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1884.
-----------------------
In two of the three cases the impression was marked enough to be
mentioned to others. But in each case, in the father's or the son's
experience, the impression seems to have been of much the same kind.
We may next illustmte the third mode of transition from non-recog-
nition to recognition of the agent's personality by citing two cases from
the experience of the same percipient, in one of which she misinterpreted
the origin of the impression, while in the other she referred it unhesi-
tatingly to its true source.
From l\Irs. Herbert Davy, Burdon Place, Newca.stle-on-Tyne.
" The only experience at all coinciding with that which 1 have told you 1
will now relate.
" It was in August, a few years ago-my husband was at the moors. 1
drove to a nursery garden to procure some flowers. 1 waited outside
the gate under the shelter of some trees, sending the groom in for the
flowers.
"It was one of the hottest afternoons 1 ever experienced. My ponies,
usually restive, stood perfectly still. Before I had waited there many
minutes an unaccountable feeling took possession of me as though 1 foreaaw
and recognised the shadow of a coming sorrow. I immediately associated
it with my husband-that some accident had befallen him. With this
miserable apprehension upon me I got through the rest of the day and
evening as best I could, but weighed down by the shadow, though 1 spoke of
it that night to no one.
"Nothing had happened to my husband. But a little child-a relation,
who had lived with us and been almost as our own-had died that day mther
suddenly in Kent, where she was then visiting her parents. 1 had thought
a good deal of little Ada as 1 sat waiting in the phaeton that summer
afternoon-had pictured her reaching out her hands to me-but the great
apprehension 1 felt was for my husband---1wt for the child."
On further inquiry, Mrs. Davy confirms the fact that the strong impres-
sions mentioned in this and in the following narrative stand quite alone in
her e:x.perience.
The following is from a friend who was with Mrs. Davy :-1 was driv-
mg with Mrs. Davy on the day she had the strange presentiment, while
waiting outside the nursery gardens. She spoke of it !lot the time, and was
quite depressed and unlike herself. Mr. Davy being from home, she
feared somethinghad happened to him.-AMy GRACE, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
J",w.ary 5th. .
The second case from Mrs. Herbert Davy is as follows :-
December 20th, 1883.
A very old gentleman, living at Hurworth, a friend of my husband's and.
with whom I was but slightly acquainted, had been ill many months. My
sister-in·law, who resides also at E, often mentioned him in her letters,
saying he was better or worse as the CaBe might be.
Late last autumn my husband and 1 were staying at the Tynedale Hydro-
pathic Establishment. One evening 1 suddenly laid down the book I W88
Digitized by Google
,June, 1884.] Journal of Society fot' P8ycllical Re8earch. 79
reading, with this thought so strong upon me I could scarcely refrain from
putting it into words : "I believe that Mr. O. is at this moment dying."
So strangely was I imbued with this belief-there had been nothing whatever
,said to lead to it-thatI asked my busband to note the time particularly, and
to remember it for a reason I would rather not state just then. "It il
exactly 7o'clock," he said, and that being our dinner hour, we went down-
stairs to dine. The entire evening, however, I was haunted by the same
,strange feeling, and looked for a letter from my sister-in-law next morning.
None came. But the following day there was one for her brother. In it ahe
said: "Poor old Mr. O. died last night at 7 o'clock. It was past post-time,
.80 I could not let you know before."
In answer to inquiry Mr. H. Davy writes :-
December 27tA, 1883.
I have a perfect recollection of the night in question, the 20th October,
'1882, when my wife asked me to tell her the time. I told her the time, as
-she" had a reason for knowing it," ahe said. She afterwards told me that
reason. HBRBERT DAVY.
Now it is to be observed: that in the first of these two cases the
absence of Mr. Davy afforded an obvious reason for the direction towards •
kim of Mrs. Davy's vague anxiety. The sulHlonscious telepathic impact
is no doubt liable to be misinterpreted under the influence of some idea
which dominates and preoccupies the percipient's mind. We shall find
this to be sometimesthe caseeven when the phantasmis visual and strongly
.defined. Much more is it likely to happen when there is nothing but
an impression of disaster, and it is possible that had Mrs. Davy's mind
been absolutely at rest as regards those dearest to her the personality
of the child, who was actually dying, might have made itself felt.
Mrs. Davy's 8econd case, on the other hand, seems to ahow that
identification may be easier when there is little or no ellwtional element
in the impression received. Here the connection between agent and
percipient; is very slight, and the knowledge of his death is hardly more
than a simple piece of news, which is correctly realised by the percipient.
In the next case, again, the same percipient realises, with varying
distinctness on different occasions, the source whence her impression
,comes.
"From Miss Loveday, known to F. W. H. M.
Enclosed is the letter I spoke to you o~, from my sister, Mrs. Pochin.
'.. Baker" 'was an old servant in our family, who was very dear to us alL
AUGUSTA LoVEDAY.
From Mrs. Pochin.
1:IY DEAR AUGUSTA,-I have had three different intimations of death-
,on Uncle William's death, on Henry H.'s death and on Baker's. The
two first were more sensations than anything else. It is a thing hardly to
be described. It is like nothing else. Not alarming; rather like one's idea
Digitized by Google
80 Journal q/ Society/or P8.11cllical Re8earch. [Jane,l884.
cf the severance of nerves; of IOm-athing cut oir, that is, and lost to yourself,
of a want, a something gone from you. On the occasion of Henry's death,
I did not know who was gone. I was away in Germany; but I awoke with
the sensation, and I told my children, "I have had that feeling that I have
had before on the loBS of a relation. I do not know who is gone; but some-
one seems gone j perhaps it is Aunt Edward." Then in a dsy or so came the
news of Henry's death. The last occasion (i.e., of Baker's death) it was
the most distinct of all. It was in 1880, in the autumn. I was in Germany.
I had gone to lie down after the early dinner on Sunday, to rest before the-
long walk to church j and I fell asleep. I had the most calm and delight-
ful awaking-no actual words, but a happy feeling that Baker was passing-
away to Heaven peacefully, and that 1 was intended to know it. If I put
into words what my impreBBion was, it was this-" Aa if some spirit had
gently touche-d me and said, 'Baker is p888ing away, rise up and pray.''' I
at once rose up and wen~ into the next room, and told my boys "I have had
an intimation that Baker is dying, remember it. I shall hear." I then
went back to my bedside to kneel in prayer. The happineBS and peace of
the few minutes was intense. I had longe-d to see him once again before he
die-d, and had feared I should not be in England in time, though I was going
in a few days, as I knew his end was near: but being led to know the day
and hour was to me like a leave-taking and a good-bye from himself, and I
felt it was permitted to 888ure and comfort me. Two or three days later I
heard it 'Wall that 'lJ8ry day he died; and when I got to England and saw his
wife, Oath, I found it was the same time, allowing for my being nearly 40
minutes to the eastward on the globe. The two first intimations, though
not alarming, were not of the comforting, reaBBuring and happy feeling of
the last. My boys were much impressed at the time, at the idea of the
spiritual world being so near.
And here it seems appropriate to inquire how far we should expect
on our theory that the percipient who had experienced one telepathic
impression should experience others as well. Are we to suppose that
the percipient's capacity is the important thing 1 that potential tele-
pathic impressions are perpetually flying about, but that only certain
minds can catch and develop them 1or are we, on the contrary, to assume
that it is only one rare mind here and there which has the power
of projecting an impression sufficiently vigorous to be felt by another 1
In the experimental cases of Thought-transference it seems as
though the percipient were the rarer and more important personage of
the two. But here the emotion developed is in any case very slight.
and it seems likely enough that a great number of persons may be
equally effective as agents if nothing more than concentration of mind
is required of them. But in the case of death or violent crisis this
analogy does not suffice us; we have no a priori means of
comparing the behaviour of different minds at the supreme moment;
we can only collect cases and observe whether it more often happens
that A appears to several persons on different occasions during his life
Digitized by Google
.June, 1884.] Journal qf Society Jor Psychical Research. 81
or in different places at his death, or that P at different times perceives
the phantasms of more than one of his friends. Our impression so far is
that P's idiosyncrasy rather than A's will still appear in most cases to
have been the important one. At any rate this seems to hold good in
the class of vague impressions, for we notice that in a large proportion
of cases the percipient who has felt a vague depression at the death of
one friend has also felt it at the death of one or more others.
Sometimes the same percipient will experience both phantasms
and impressions; sometiples impressions will be frequent, but will never
rise to the level of itefinite sensory hallucination.
We have a few cases where a phantasm and an impression seem to
announce to the same person the same· event, yet not simultaneously;
the phantasm, perhaps, preceding by some h~urs the conviction of
disaster, or, perhaps, following closely upon it. We may hope that
cases of this kind will in time to come be more accurately noted. It
might be well if any person experiencing what seems to him an unmis-
takable impression of this kind would at once retire to solitude and
endeavour to render his mind as blank as possible. Just as a forgotten
name or scene can often be recalled by the mere process of resolute
tranquillisation of brain and senses, so (it may be conjectured) might
the same abeyance of thought or action permit the development of a
vaguely-felt telepathic impression into a phantasm, perceptible by the
eye or ear; and, if sleep were induced, it would be very curious to note
whether the impression reproduced itself in dream in a definite and
veridical way. That this might sometimes be the case seems likely
enough from the analogy of M. Maury's experiences (" LeSommeil et
les Reves" passim), for he found that a sensory impression received in
waking hours would frequently reproduce itself phantasmally, as an
illusio'n hypnagogique, at the moment of oncoming sleep, and would then
playa noticeable part in a dream. And it must be remembered that
the prima facie presumption is that our veridical hallucinations, though
differing from delusive hallucinations in their genesis, will be to some
extent analogous to them in their modes of growth and propagation.
But, leaving these hints for future development, we must proceed to
the cases where the source of telepathic impression is clearly identified,
although no quasirpe;rcept is actually heard, felt, or seen.
It mUl'lt not be supposed that in these cases the impressions are all
alike; they differ in many ways from each other, notably in duration
and in definiteness. And first as to duration. We cite an instance
communicated to us by our friend, Mrs. Bidder, where the impression
is prolonged over two days at least.
Mr. James Elliot (for many years Professor of Science at the Institute,
at Liverpool) told me that when he was living in London (I forget the year),
employed on some electrical experiments,he one day felt drawn to go and see
Digitized by Google
82 Jourllal oj Society for P8ychical Re8earcll. [June, 1~.
the lady he was engaged to, then living at Dunkeld. The ProfeBBor was a
cool-headed Scotchman, and, as he said, he at first put the thing aside
altogether, for it was a time when he could only leave his work at a great
sacrifice, and a coach journey was very fatiguing, and very exhausting to a
slender purse. However, when a second day he was possessed with the feel-
ing that BOme misfortune was happening to the lady, and she urgently
required his presence, he did yield t,o his feelings, and started for a journey
to Dunkeld on the outside of the night coach. He had not heard that any-
thing was wrong, but when he reached her home he found that a cold had
the day before turned to serious illness, and she died very BOOn after his.
arrival. He told me this story apropos of a small aJver claaped Bible he
always used, which she had then given him, and when, two years ago, he
died, very suddenly, it was found he had left this Bible to me. I fear I can
give you no further witneBSeB to this. The sister in whose hands he left the-
Bible for me died this year; but that he believed he was called, as I state, 1
can most confidently affirm.
To a case like this such a term as eelepatM,c impact seems hardly
.applicable. It resembles rather a mere quickening of some pre-existing
rapport, and suggests the question (which meets us so often under
different forms) as regards the persistency of the influence exercised by
one mind on another. It is to mesmerism that we must look for some
more definite investigation of this point. For what length of time can
the mesmeric rapport be maintained continU0U8lyl After how long an
interval do we find that the mesmeriser's power over his subject still
subsists 1 These are some of the points where the perception of the
remoter telepathic analogies should tend to widen the scope of
mesmeric D:tquiry.
As a contrast to this case of gradual intensification of the telepathic
summons we will now cite an instance where the impression, though not
in any way quasi-8enBory, comes upon the percipient as suddenly as a
visible phantasm could do, and gives a shock so violent that there is no-
need to assume any subsequent reinforcement of the original impact in
order to explain the four hours' distress and depression which followed.
From M. A. OLLIVIER, MMecin lI. Huelgoat, Finistere.
Le 10 Octobre, 1881, je fus appe16 pour service medical ala campagne a
trois lieues de chez-moi. C'etait au milieu de la nuit, une nuit tres sombre.
Je m'engageai dana un petit chemin creux, domine par des arbres venant
former une vo1ite au deBBua de la route. La nuit etait si noire que je ne·
voyais pas aconduire mon chevl.ll. Je laisaai l'animalse diriger lI. son instinct.
n etait environ 9 heurea ; Ie sentier dans lequel je me trouvaia en Ie moment
etait parseme de groBBeB pierres rondes et presentait une pente tres rapide.
Le cheval allait au pas tres lentement. Tout acoup, les pieda de devant de·
l'animalll6chissent et il tombe subitement, la bouche portant sur Ie sol. Je
fus projete naturellement par-deBBus sa tete, mon epaule porta lI. terre, et j&
me fracturai une clavicule.
Digitized by Google
June,l884.]· Journal of Society for P81Jchical Research. 83-
En Ie moment meme, ma femme, qui se deshabillait chez elle et se
preparait a se mettre au lit, eut un pressentiment intime qu'il ven&it de
m'&ITiver un accident; un tremblement nerveux 1& S&isit, elle se mit a
pleurer et appela 1& bonne.
"Venez vite, j'ai peur; il est arrive quelque malheur; mon marl est
mort ou blesle." Jusqu'a mon arrivee elle retint 1& domestique pres d'elle,
et ne cesea de pleurer. Elle voul&it envoyer un homme a ma recherche,
mais elle ne savait pas dans quel vill&ge j'etais alle. Je rentrai chez moi
vers 1 heure du matin. J'appel&i la domestique pour m'ec1&irer et desseller
mon cheval. "Je suis blesse," dis.je, "je ne puis bouger l'epaule."
Le pressentiment de rna femme etait confirme.
Voila, monsieur, les faits tels qu'ils se sont passes, et je suis tres
heureux de pouvoir vous les envoyer dans toute leur verite.
J arvuier 20, 1883.
The impression here is, physically, so profound that this case may
rank last among the list of mere impressions, and may prepare the way
for the singular admixtures of vague impression with definite sensation
which will form the subject of our next paper.
THE MAGNETIC GLOW.
Apropos of the investigations published by the Reichenbach Com-
mittee in Part III. of the Proceedings, Mr. Olley writes to Mr. Rand
Capron, F.R.A.S., as follows:-
" A few years since a Mr. Hayward, who came over from Australia to
exhibit what he called a circular magnet to the Royal Society and with whom
I became myself intimately acquainted, mentioned to me, after detailing
numerous magnetic experiments which during many years he had made in
the Colony, that he had on several occasions, when in his dark 1&boratory.
seen weak flames around the poles of a large ordinary magnet. He appeared
to be quite unbiassed in his conclusions and observations, so that I have no
reason to call in question his testimony. I found too that he had not even
heard of Reichenbach's treatise before I mentioned it te him. His evidence.
therefore, is strongly in favour of the experiments made by the S.P.R."
RESEARCH FUND.
Contributions during the last month.
"A Friend" ...
General Campbell
£ s. d.
15 0 0
500
Digitized by Coog
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 188...
ON VISION WITH SEALED AND BANDAGED EYES.
In the last number of the Journal it was mentioned tha.t the
MesmericCommittee had submitted to prolonged and careful examination
an alleged case of "clairvoyance." An illiterate youth called "Dick,"
when mesmerised by a Mr. Ogle, was able to describe objects held in
front of him, or to name correctly any card drawn at random from a
pack after his eyes had been sealed and bandaged, so that at first sight
it would seem impossible he could hav~ obtainod any glimpse of the
o~iect. The mesmerist having been sent away during the experimenti,
confederacy was out of the question, and it remained to ascertain what
were the capabilities of vision under circumstances that seemed to pre-
clude either an ordinary or extraordinary use of the eyes. One member
of the Committee, Mr. Hodgson, B.A., of St. John's College, Cambridge,
made some experiments in conjunction with Mrs. Sidgwick upon his
own powers of vision, under conditions analogous to those to which
" Dick" was submitted, and Mrs. Sidgwick has kindly furnished us with
the accompanying report of these experiments. It will be seen that it
is not necessary to assume any clairvoyant faculty to account for
everything done by "Dick" in the presence of the Committee.
Hillside, Cambridge, April 11th, 1884.
Mr. Hodgson came here yesterday evening in order that we might test his
power of seeing with his eyes bandaged up. I covered each eye with a piece of
gummed paper,cut as nearlyas I couldrememberofthe sameshape as the plaster
put over ., Dick's" eyes on Saturday and Sunday last. This was stuck both
over the eyelid and down to the cheek. Mr. Hodgson finds it essential to
success to have it stuck to the cheek. [N.B.-So does" Dick. "] Over
each eye a penny was placed, and held there with a strip of gummed paper
~ht across from templeto temple, and overthisa handkerchief was bound. Mr.
Hodgson finds the pennies and a large dark handkerchief a great assistance
in seeing, because he finds it important to prevent, as far as possible, all
accecs of light to the eye except through the channel of vision which he uses.
This channel was, when I saw him, a small chink in the neighbourhood of the
corner made by brow and nose. The chink, if not left in the original
bandaging, can generally be produced by working the eyelid under the plaster.
It is best for seeing if not very large. In one experiment we perceived a slit
about a quarter of an inch in length, which Mr. Hodgson found incon·
veniently large, but the seer cannot always regulate the size of his chink.
We made ink marks across the edge of the plaster, as were made with
"Dick," but owing to my having inadvertently stuck the strip that held
the pennies to the plaster over the eyes, the latter was disturbed in removing
the former, so that we could not be comllietely certain of its position.
There is, however, no reason to think that the plaster moves relatively to
the skin in any part where it is stuck to it except just at the chink.
I think that with such observation as it is generally possible to give it
Digitized by Coog
.T1III8, 1884.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. 85
would be very difficult to feel certain that there \Vas no chink on any given
occasion. A chink \Vhich admits light in one position of the eyelid or bro\V
may disappear in anQther, and could only be recognised by the non-adhesion
of the plaster along a small part of its edge, and this \Vould be diffic1llt to
feel sure about.
Mr. Hodgson could distinguish objects and read cards. Form \Vas more
easy to see than colour. He \Vas generally right about the suit in the small
number of trials \Ve made. but the number of pips gave him more trouble,
especially when this number was large ;-1 suppole because it was difficult
to see the whole card at once. He saw dimly, easily mistaking one object for
another somewhat similar in shape, and fitfully, owing to the difficulty of
keeping his eye :fixed in the necessarily strained position required. The
direction of the line of vision was sometimes surprising. No doubt there are
limits beyond which it cannot lie, but 1 should be sorry to state what they
are_ Mr. Hodgson could not himself tell which eye he was seeing with
exceptby covering each eye alternately. A good deal of difference in clearne&
could be made by careful adjustment of light and shade, and background.
The direction of vision and degree of clearness differed with different
bandagings. We bandaged him three times, and one time out of the
three he was rather long about working the eyelids after the plaster was put
on, 80 that the gum dried first, and he could not open his eyes.
Mr. Hodgson finds it essential to success that his eyebrows should be left
completely uncovered, but 1 think this might differ with different individuals
and probably depends on the shape of nose and brow, prominence of eye, and
amount of hair in eyebrow.
I have myself been trying experiments this morning-plastering over my
own eyes. My success is extremely poor compared to Mr. Hodgson's, but
the most available and least conspicuous chink 1 got (it was in the corner of
brow and nose) was with the plaster over my eyebrow.
My conclusion is :-
(1) That no bandaging of the eyes can be made satisfactory (as we also
thought at Sunderland, though with less ground than we have now), and
that consequently it would be extremely difficult to prove that anyone read
with his forehead. It could only be proved, 1 think, if he could do it
under a number of different conditions selected by the investigators.
(2) That as the conditions required by" Dick" are exactly those which
:Mr. Hodgson finds most conducive to seeing through an inconspicuous chink
above plaster over the eyes, and as the degree of vision, the way in which
it comes and goes, &c., seem much the same with Mr. Hodgson as with
" Dick," the natural inference is that "Dick" sees with his eyes, though
we have no reason to think he does it consciously.
ELEANOR Mrr.nRED SIDGWICK.
P.S.-I made nQ attemptto observe accurately in what directions Mr. Hodg-
son saw, and only came to the conclusion that it was not easy to decide offhand
what his range of vision was. He had, of course, unlimited power of moving
his head about, and the position of the head relatively to the body is not very
easy to :fix determinately. Further, the exact poBition of the chink is
uncertain, and the direction of the line from the chink to the pupil of the
Digitized by Google
86 Journal qf Society for P8.lIchicat Re8earch. lJune, 1881.
eye also, and we cannot see the position of the pupil at the time. All
these things make the directions in which he can seeliable to be unexpected.
In my own case the range of vision in an ordinary light is limited by the
bones of my face. I can lee my face bounding tbe field of view in every
direction. The distention of the pupil could not, therefore, in my case,
extend the field of view, unleBS it causes greater projection of the eye. It
would, I suppose, canse the object. near the limit to appear in better focus.
I tbink the angle I can see through in a horizontal direction, without moving
my head, is about 260 degrees, but I have not measured accurately.
The above lseIDI to me an accurate account of my trial and experiences.
I may add, bowever, that the aperture serves equally well for seeing at what-
ever side of the eye it may be, so far as my own attempts have gone. When
the number of pips on the card increased beyond six, it was not so easy for
me to tell the next number. [This W88 markedly the case in the experiments
with "Dick."] Below six, I had no particular difficulty in telling the
number of piPI and succeeded every time.
RICHARD HODGSON.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE ARUNDEL CASE.
To THE EDITOR OF THE" JOURNAL FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH."
Sm,-While acknowledging, as every member of our Society must do, the
careful manner in which the investigations of Major Taylor and Major King
(reported in the Journal for this month) have been carried out, and recognising
to the full the superior value of their observations over any which occur to
those who had not their opportunities, I cannot help feeling that the
conclusions at which these gentlemen arrive are hardly borne out by the facts
themselves.
There is no doubt that the doctor'1 evidence, being that of an educated-
though, perhaps, a prejudiced-witness, is of great value, but unless the
evidence of the mother be discredited, it leems c:ear that at one time she
heard the scratching noise while holding the hands of the girl. If the girl
were able at will to make the noise without using her hands, why did she
not do so when her hands were disabled by the doctor's experiment with the
woollen cuff1
Again, I do not understand that the paternal grandmother was
regarded by the investigators as unworthy of belief, and they remark that,
on the aBSumption that her story was true, the fall of clock and ornament.
could not be accounted for by any natural cause. Yet they go out of their
way, as it seems to me, to suggest that the girl was not kept in sight by the
old women, and that she was thus enabled to playa trick on them.
We have no evidence whatever that either or both the grandmothers
" had turned round to speak to the mother at the bottom of the stairs," as
Digitized by Google
JUQe, 1884.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earclt. 87
Major Taylor suggests, and, indeed, I rather gather from the account that tbey
deny having done BO.
Even, however, had such been the case, the chances that one or other of
them would have detected the girl before she returned to heroriginal position
are considerable.
As to the knocks I do not understand the girl's fright to have been
simulated, and that being so, I confess that I am unabla to comprehend
an impostor playing upon the fears of her relatives and being herself alarmed
at her own trickery.
On the whole, I venture to suggest tbat the case is very similar to
the Wem incident reported by Mr. F. S. Hughes in the March number of
the Journal. .
In such cases there always appears to be an element, more or leBB strong,
of fraud, and to some this may seem to vitiate the whole occurrence. I am
inclined to think, however, that we should not allow it to do so, but should
sift the whole of the evidence with the greatest care, bearing in mind that
some motive must exist for a normal village girl to undertake such an
organised system of deceit; while on the other hand, supposing that such a
girl found that in some mysterious way such phenomena appeared to be pro-
duced in connection with herself, the temptation to increase her own reputa-
tion, and the astonishment of the bystanders, by similar ~ricks, would be
great. In such a case, too, one would expect to find the girl herself partaking
in the general alarm on the recurrence of the involuntary phenomena. This
appears to have happened in bothcases.
I trust that these remarks will not be considered presumptuous, and that
I shall not be thought wantingin deference to the judgment ofthe gentlemen
who have so ably conducted the investigations at Arundel.
It is a branch of our inquiry in which I feel very great interest, and I am
most desirous that it should not be too lightly paBBed over by the Society. I
must plead this as my excuse for troubling you at such length.-I am, Sir,
yours, &c.
A. P. PERCEVAL KEBP.
122, Blackheath Hill, S.E. May, 1884.
[There is also the singular fact that wherever these "manifestations"
occur, the phenomena presen~ a marked resemblance. Knocking and
scratching are not the only things mischievous children can do, (cf. " Helen's
Babies "), and yet in a lonely cabin in the Wtlst of Ireland, in Shrop-
shire, SUBBex, Sheffield, in Vienna, and elsewhere, we find a repetition of
the Epworth and of the Rochester knockings and scratchings, which it il
wholly improbable bad been heard of in all these different centres of disturb-
ance. At the same time a suspicious element enters into most of the easea,
and Mr. Keep's suggestion may afford an explanation of it.-ED.]
Digitized by Google
[R]
[R]
[R]
[R]
88 Journal qf Society for P8ycki.cal Re8earck. [June, 1884.
-----------------
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The follotoing additions halle been made since last month.
BEYOND THE SUNRISE. Observations by two Travellers ...New York,N.D.
BUBTHOGGE (Richard, M.D.) An Essay upon Reason ~d the Nature
of Spirit•..•.....•..............•....••...............•................•London, 1694
OOUSIN (Victor) Elements of Psychology. From the French, by the
Rev. O. S. Henry, D.D. ...........•..••.•........•............New York, 1838
ELLIOTSON (John, M.D., F.R.S.) Surgical Operations in the Mesmeric
State ........•..•..•..•..•.••..............•..•............•.............•Lo'ltdon, 1843
HEAPHY (Thomas) A Wonderful Ghost Story.....................London, 1882*
HIBBERT (Samuel, M.D., F.R.S.E.) Sketches of the Philosophy of
Apparitions. 2nd edit. •.•...........................•.......................
HISTORY OF WITOHES, GHOSTS, AND HIGHLAND SUBS (The)...Berwiek,N.D.
M.A. (Oxon.) Spirit Identity .••••.......•.•...........................London, 1879
MADDEN (R.R., F.R.O.S., M.R.I.A.,) Phantaamata, or Illusions and
Fanaticisma of Protean Forms Productive of Great Evils (2 vol•. )
London, 1857
MATHER (Increase, D.D.) The Wonders of the Invisible World
Londun, 1862
PINKERTON (James N., M.D.) Sleep and its Phenomena ......London, 1839
TRUE AND ExACT RELA.TlON (A) of Witches arraigned and executed
in Essex, who were condemned the 29th July, 1645 (Reprint from
the original edition of 1645.) •..•...•........... ........•.•......London, 1837
TRUE AND PERFEOT AOCOUNT OF AN APPARITION (A) .........London, 1672t
BAILLARGER (M. J.) De l'lnfluellce des Hallucinations .......... ..Paris, 1846
OOLLIN DE PLANCY (J.) Dictionnaire Infernal ..•...........•......Paris, 1844.
BURDACH (Karl F.) Blicke ins Leben, Vois. I., IL, and III....Leipzig, 1842
VoL IV. (posthumous) Leipzig, 1848
PERTY (Maximilian) Blicke in das verborgene Leben des .
Menschengeistes •........••......•.••.................................Leipzig, 1869
RIEGER (Dr. Oonrad) Der Hypnotismus .........•...·.....••.......Jena, 1884
SPLITTGERBER (Franz) Tod, Fortleben und Auferstehung......Halle, 1879
* Presented by Mrs. Worsley. t Presented by Mr. C. C. MasseY.i
Digitized by Google
