{"name":"Narrative Of Miss Margaret Mavoys Case","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1820__renwick___narrative_of_miss_margaret_mavoys_case.pdf","mytitle":"Narrative Of Miss Margaret Mavoys Case","mylang":"de"}
~~ \
THE CONTINUA1'JON
OF
OF li!ISS
MARGARET lli'AVOY'S CASE.
WITH
General Observations 1tjwn the Case itself;
U.l'ON HER
Through the Medium of her Fingers;
'fPillt Additional Proofs of Iter Blindness.
A~D WITH STRICTURES
Upon Mr. Sandars's Pamphlet, entitled, "Hints to Credulity;" upon the
Letters of Mr. Egerton Smhh, the Editor of the Mercury; and
upon the general Conduct of her Opponents towards
this Sutl\lring Female and ber Supporters.
TO WHICH Is NOW .ADDED,
\1ln \1ltrouut of tJ)t ~pptar<mtt~ upon llli~!ltdilln,
Takeh from the Report of RoBERT HARRISON, E~q, A. B. M. R. C. S. L. D.
one of the Demoilstratori of Anatomy, &c. to the School of Surgery in
Dublin.
IDW ~ID®A'!!A~ ~ml~"Wll®~lj Eflo IDo
One of the Physicians to the Liverpool Infirmary;
" Non enim meie Iandi llic veiitor, sed publicre utilitati quoad possuni inservio."
lLonb'ott :
Printed for Baldwin, Cradoek, ~tnd Joy; Underwood and Blacks; & J. Callow ,
0. Cruickshank, & W. Grape!, Liverpool; ~owler, l\fancbe; ter; Constab\Q
and Co. and W. Blackwood, Edinburgh; A. and J. ;\f. Dt•n~an,
Gla~a-ow; and Cummini, Dublin. ""
H~20.
ION COLLEGE
LIBRARY.
IOLD BY n~~~R 9~ ~ftS
•aJ!ati)c:-.;t "'·' ._) .........·:.:...R....:-oaa lUI.
Ki~rnan, Printer, Liverpool.
H V1Cf47
fV13K4~
Notice to t{Jt tlultltc.
The greater part of tlii• hook,•., printed previous to the death of ~!iss M'Avoy. Eight
pages were len for the insertion of the remainder or the case to the encl of June, tbo perloct
of its intended publication; bnt the delay in printing it, occasioned a com.iderable a.ddition,
and the reader will ob>erve this addition to commence in the half-sheet marked ~· p. 97 to
10', and again N•• page 97 to 100.
The reader Is requested to correct the following errata, and to 1opply tbe accents to the
Latin words, where they have been omitted by the printer.
pag•· line.
:xii••••12Preface, for ju.!lttied, rcafl jn~tifl:ecl.
xi•••••laAt linE" do. for stonger, read strom:er
xvlii••••10 ilitto, for attemp~, rc~td attempts
Note do. 1 a!ler if, insert any of
2•••• 1-tt for recieved. rearl received.
28 ror et read qnod.
3••••5 & 6 for (1epent1ence, reH.rt ctepcndAnee
22••••8 for pa11llulum, re:.rl ~aolulnm.
2'2••••~5 for majis, rett.d l\h~is
23•••• 1:1 'lflf'r obtained, insert ;
14 rlele;
17 dele probal!.ly.
:4tz• ••• 25 dele enpl.
3-'••• •29 for raetla., read foe<1l.
4o••••J7 for Sherwin, read Shemcri.'
4••.••25 dele the blood was.
46•••·" for le•n•, read Ieari
6 for falls, reart fall
4g•••• 1~ for orina read orlnre.
51••••17 aner dl•parnit in!ert foil point
52••••31 Rote, for hebdonadem, read hebdo.
madem.
53••••4 for injcsti!, ~ead ingestis.
64••••20 for 30th, read 3ht.
2' dele pul.ationo.
fi5••• •14. for comes, rud come.
66••••to for comes, read come.
67••••27 for let, read lollt-and for vertebra!,
read vertebra.
eg••••1g for tomonr, reil.d tnmoors.
~5 for and, read hilvin~.
82•••• 13 oiler apple, read tree
83••••'21 for nrinft, rea~ nrinam.'
85••••12 for mi!tore, read mixture
Sf)••••8 for a, read any.
93••••3 for r4~. re•'IJI}J,
103••••sbeet N• 7 for buisenit, read biscnit.
20 for minnie, read mlnote.
100.... do. 5 dele it.
16 do. dele frequency
11 dn. dele lint and
ro~••••29 last line for eum read cum
10:1.... flo. 10 for vln, read viu.
97••••N.,. £~ for tuit, read fuit.
98·... do. J1 for Tinch, reacl Tinct.
100•••• do. !3 for by. read to
!(»•••• do. 1 rea<! July 3d
tog•••• Note, line Tfor Edward, react Israel;
110••••3g for ob!ltrnsive, read obtru!5i've.
lt£••••7 for posscl!Sii's, read posse!'a
11.5. ••• S 'Nott-, for Edward, read ETerard.
f
pa~e. line. •
117••••s4o aller!.timulns,
118H ..7 for know, read known.
120••••4 for anrgeon, react apothecary.
12~ ••••5 for eye, read eyeg.
1S1••••28 ror enquiry, read lnqnlry.
131••••3 for enquiry, reaf! inquiry.
138••••2 aller blln<lness, io>ert full point.
t .n •••• l8 for enqniry, read lwquiry.
142•••• 1. for enq1Jire, read inq11ire.
14£••••25, note, for nons. rea1l noufl.
140••••!2 note, ror singl~e, read fiingle.
14.7.; ....last line,for .Sandar's, read Sandars.-
15L••••12, "B.ncl thronghont tile ,,-ork, for
Tr:ti1, read Tr<till.
!":H••••~s for effected, rearl alfected.
152••• •5, note, for connoisances, reatf connois.
sa.ncesa
3 & 4 !oraopcrogatioo.., read 1111percrog~t..
tion.
1 •llcr voice, •dd full point.
153••••18 after t'xamination, insert eomma, &
dele into her case.
154....49 note, rlele semicolon.
154••••!!3 note, for ilia, read hta.
lfi7••• ,Jg, for i•, read are.
lj5••••11 for R. read B.
1jll••••~0 for eompleated, read completed.
180••• •.5, for ~werl, read crowded.
lgs..••g for •ere, read was.
200.... tg for oeperatcly, re•d O<'parately.
201 ••• •6 note, for the, read them.
202••••,5 il.fter April, Insert Dr. Jardirre.
205••••~after npon, re::td talHng.
207••••22 rearl ~obscribet's.
219....27 read or.caslon•lly•
.1!27... , 26 for silk read velvet.
235.•••3 for E. read T.
9.38••••4 for plane, read plain.
241••••1 for at, read on.
215••••22 for wonderfulr, read wondertnl;
APPENDIX.
1.•••33 ancr poekcu, ioaert comma
21•••• 1 for his, read is.
42•••• 18 for vitriou~, read vitreous.
46••••4~ for nether, read neither
4.g••••£3 for othert, read oth.er.
!SZ•••• t2 after stomac.h, io!ert semicolon.
52••• ,3g for mmour, read hnmour
50••• ,5for these, re::td tho"~
57,,, ,5 for great, read ~reater.
•
Umv Cal f g tz. CJ y
r
ABOUT the latter end of the year 1816, the public at-
ten~ion was etcited 'by reports of the extraordinary
powers of Miss M'Avoy, who, reputed to be blind, was
not only capable of reading and sewing, but of distin-
guishing colour~ through the medium of the fingers. The
ease with which indidduals gained access te thill young
female; enabled them to judge of the truth or falsehood
of the reports iri circulation, and they disseminated their
opinions far and wide, so as to attract, not only the at-
tention of the curious, but of men of science. As I had
attended Mil!s lWAYoy during the period when she lost
her sight, three months previous to my knowledge of
her possessing these powers, and, ,having minutely exa-·
mined into the truth of her statement, by making ,those
experiments I deemed satisfactory ofher claim to the pos-
session ofthem, I felt it an incumbent duty to gh·e all the
information on the. subject which lay in mypower. I was
induced to do this more particularly from the repeated
demandswhich were made by the different periodical wri-
ters for information. In the Narrative I stated the circum-
stances whichappeared in her favour, as well as those which
Wf>re against her; and my intentions before and after the
time of printing the Narrative, wet·o repeatedly declared,
a
vi PREFACE.
olpublisbing whate~·er could be advanced a~ainst her
by any other person. ·Her opponents kept to them-
selves the proofs they since ba,·e given to the public,
tfutil the Narrative was published, that by seeing the de-
tail of experiments made to ascertain the truth, they
might be enabled to garble from it, those parts which
would give more weight to their assertions.
The caudo:.,tr and fairness of my statement were uni-
formly allowed in the first in!'tance even by those critics
who afterwards vacillated in their opinions.
l Having no theory to establish on her blindness being
prm·ed, and being arrived at that time of life, when new
opinions or reputed facts are questioned before they are
admitted to be true, I could have no niotive in·assert·
ing Miss l\'l'Avoy to be blind, but the conviction she wail
so; and this condction ha~ not been produced, in my
mind, upon slight grounds, but from the result of expe.J
riments made to ascertain the fact, which have· been
heretofore deemed sufficient to satisfy the Anatomist and
Philosopher. Indeed her blindneStl was not disputed
until the period when it uras discov~red she possessed th~;~
power of distfnguishing colours, &c. But when she be-
gan to discover colours, by the medium of the fingers,
through g·lass, and objects which were passing or s·tatio-
nary in the street, through the same medium, ·every per-
son began to doubt the trnth of the assertion; and I
doubted, until, by the experiments I made, I found I must
believe in the fact, or resist the evidence of my senses.
Human record had given no proof of powers of this de-
scription, and It was ''cry natural for scientific men ":ho
had not seen Miss l\1'A,•oy, to gh·e her up as an impos-
tor. In the History of Nature, huwe,·er, circumstances
equally extraordinary have been found to exist; and
U vCt.f D oy
, I
PREP'AC!:. vu
tho.l'e facts, which a century ago would have been tbough.t
impossible, ha~e been admitted 'in th.e present day.
I I
Sed neqoe tam facflis res,ulla est, quin ea primum
Difficilis ma~s ad crcdendum constet: itemque
Nil adeo magnum, nee tam mirabile quicquam
Principio, quod non minuant mirarier omnes
Paullatim·;-
The uncertain state or').\fis.s M'.A,voy's health, fora very
long period to the present time, which frequently indi-
cated a fatal termination, prevented .me from publish-
ing the continuation of her case, and for the same rea-
~on I did not think it necessary to enter into any. de-
fence against the numerous assailants of her integrity, as
I had only a very few proofs to ad,·ance in addition to
those already stated .in the Narrative, Miss M'Avoy
having lost,jn a great measure, for nearly the same pe~iod
of time, the powers lfh.i<:'h had so much distinguished
her·.
I bad also a stronger reason for deferring the pub-
lication, for, in case of her decease, her friends, in conse-
quence of .Miss M'Avoy's own request, would hav~ per-
initted her body to be inspected, by which the nature of
the disease might have been elucidated, and the fact of
her blindness, or the contrary, been proved to the sa-
tisfaction of all parties. Had such an event ta'ken
place, I shOJlld have gh•cn another proof, that i'n this
whole affair I have acted und~r no concealment, but
with that openness, impartiality, and wish of investigat-
ing the truth, the importance of the case demanded; for it
was my declared intention to have invited, particularly,
those persons to be present at this examination, who,
without sufficient inquiry, had been most virulent in
their assertions of imposture. However gratifying, un-
der such an event taking place, th~ innuiry would have
u M oft
viii PREPACE.
bllen to me, and to the friends of Truth, I rejoice rJ!isa
M'Avoy still lives, and although her health is in a most
precarious state, I yet hope she may ultimately recover,
and that the fact of her blindness may in some other way
be clearly ascertained.
I see no reason why acrimony of language, or a
want of .forbearance towards those who support the
opinion of Miss M'Avoy's blindness, should have
been so much excited by her opponents. They have
shewn a feeling more indicative of personal pique than of
justic~ to Miss M'Avoyl and in the violence of their op-
position, resting upon a very slight evidence, they have
brought themseh·es before the bar of the public, an4
h'ave in a certain degree, influenced that public to agree
with ·them in opinion. But the advocates of Miss
M'Avoy's blindness do not rest their opinion upon slight
grounds; they ha\·e examined and re-examined it, and
they more firmly adhere to that conviction which was
""' impressed upon their minds in a very early stage of the
business. The public is in the end.hmyever a justjudge~
it acts from 'the eviden~e before it, but, as it does not al~
ways obtain that evidence in the most dir,ect way, it must
await the period when th,e production o_f facts will d()
away the prejudice, by which the individm\1, forming a
part of that public, is gen.erally t~o much actuat;d. The
manner in which this opposition has been carried on;
induces me to suppose the grounds upon which Miss
M'Avoy's opponents rested their proofs did not convine~
thems.elves, at lea~t had a very weak foundation, or they'
would not have had recourse to those means, which had
the effect of suppressing inquiry, and of arresting any
evidence in her favour. '
At the period when the public attention hadbeen given
to the report of her powers; when the evidence of her
: . . . :'
Jb
I'RRFAC::E. b:
p8ll8es~Jiug these powers was stronger than that which
could be brought against her; when her friends had
declared their willingness to allow any examination,
which scientific men might wish. What do I find in a
periodical publication unde.: the bead of A Retrospec·
tion of Medical Science, iQ. the London Medical Repo·
sitory, for December, l817, relating to this subject, but
the following paragraph:~' In noticing the physiology
' ofvision our readers may expect that we should make
'some observations on the case of Miss M'A''oy, of Li·
' verpool, which was lately b,ronght before the public by
'the Rev. Mr. Glover, and Dr. Renwick. ' we have
'only to state that, on a visit which Mr. Thomson (one
'of the Editors) made to Liverpool, although he had not
'an opportunity of seeing Miss M'Avoy, yet, from the
'information which he had received from Dr. Traill, Dr.
' Vose, and several other respectable persons in Liver·
' pool, able to form a correct judgment on the ~>ubject,
' there is not the least reason for doubting that the ,,·bole
' is a gross imposition upon public credulity. This ha~ '
• been clearly pointed out also, in a pamphlet on the sub-
' ject, written hy Mr. Sandars of Liverpool, although the
' motives that have induced the young Lady to invent,
• and perform so singular a farce cannot be readily ex·
'plained.'
' This paragraph is not less extraordinary for the injus-
tice of the information which it contains, than for the
cre~ulity of Mr. Thomson, to whom I cannot attach any
degree of credit, as a man of research, for the purposes
of his Repository. It was an easy matter to have made
further inquiry before he published this libel upon Miss
M'Avoy. I doubt much if he had read the Narrative
or he would have 8een what opportunities Dr. Traill had
of judging of her case_
; and as Dr. Vose was scarcely
X PREFACE
mentioned in it, except as a visitor at Wavertree, it might
be supposed be had still fewer means of obtaining infor-
mation on the subject. Mr. Thomson certainly did not
act with the usual prudence of an Editor, in deciding
from ex parte evidence, that imposture existed, and I
have no'doubt he will regret that, upon a subject of thi~
importance, he depended upon the ipse dixit of any
man, when be pad .the opportqnity of judging for
himself.
Some of her opponents have propagated a report a!
f;tr as their influence e~tended, that the illness of Miss
l'{l'Avoy was even feigned. It is unnecessary for me to
refute an assertion of this kind, but it is indeed extraor-
dinary, that men of the least respectability of character,
da~e to pass such an opinion upon the public, when they
must be well aware, there is no foundation for it, and
when the strongest evidence cou~d be produced to con-
tradict it.
When public opm10n 9ould not be entirely preju-
diced by the united efforts of a strong party, ad vaoc-
ing arguments against her possessing these powers, or
in refuting the proofs in her favour, they \Vere induc-
ed to change their mode ofattack, and, to effect the pur-
pose of influencing this opinion, have endea\:oured to
turn into ridicule, not only the proof~, but the persons
who witnessed them. Ridicule is a dangerous ~veapon
in the hands of designing persons, and the fear of being
the object of it, will often deter men of good sense from
supporting their opinions with proper firmness. How-
e,·er dastardly such conduct may appear to thost>
who will dnre to support what they belie\·e to be true,
against the united efforts of private pique, party preju-
dice, and personal interest; yet, great allowance is to be
made for those who are formed in a weaker mold, and
Umv C If D q1 b
Pl\EFACE. .xi
whose situation in life pre\·ents them from hazarding the
very means of existence, by advocating the truth against
the influence of power. This conduct of Miss M'Avoy's
opponents, has however had this influence, and many
individuals in Liverpool, who combine the advantages of
situation, property, and of ability, have even allowed
themselves to be silenced in this way, though convinced
of Miss M'Avoy's blindness, and of her having possesied
very extraordinary powers.
" For still the world prevail'd, and 'its dread lauglt
"Which scarce tqe firm philosopher can scon,t."
As scandal increases by propagation, so have some of
Miss M'Avoy's opponents gone still farther, and charg-
ed her immediate friends, ber late confesssor, Mr. Tho-
mas, and me, with conniving at the imposition, but I
shall pass over so infamous a charge · with the pity it de-
senTes. It could only have origiuated in minds which,
being really depraved, ha\'e more pleasure in looking at
the worst, than the best side of human nature, and who,
by endeavouring to injure the characters of their neigh-
bours, gratify those malignant passions which degrade
themselves, but cannot hurt the other parties. The truly
good mind will give no weight to aspersions of this na·
ture, but the bad will appreciate them as originating iu
the counter-p~rt of thems~lves,
" Qui alterum incusat prcbri eum ipsum sc intueri oportet."
The plan I pursued in the Karrative has been o~jected
to by individuals who wished for the immediate g·ratification
of their curiosity, becau~e it unites too closely, the medi-
Cili with the experimental part of the case; but I think
this objection is made without sufficient reason,.as the dis-
ease ~.tiss M'Avoy labours under, is evidently connected
with a peculiar ~tate o· the nervous system, 'n'hich mnst
ha,-egiven rise{o thi.., f {'nlty ofdistingui~~ing colonrs,&f'.
D1a z d y 1cro tt
,xii PREllACE.
As the symptoms o( oppression in her breathing; of the
convulsive affection and pain about the region of the
heart; and the tumour in her side increased, the powers
which had before distinguised her became almost extinct;
so that since the 15th of November, 1817, she bas been
incapable of doing auy thing, except sewing, malting
paper or silk ornaments, and now and then distinguish-
- ing a metal, naming a colour, or reading a word. Whe-
ther upon the removal of these symptoms, this power
will return, is n question I cannot determine with any
degree of certainly.
I feel myself ju.stfied, from the consideration of these
circumstances, in continuing the detail of the Case in a
similar manner to that in the Na•·ratiYe, that the public
may judge for itself. I have also stated those examina-
tions more fully, which were mentioned at the end of
the Narrath·e, and the result of other experiments made
afterward.;;. I have been blamed also for making zm un-
:!Uthorized array of i1ames, but the reason of my naming
c.litfcreut individuals, who were present at the \'arions
examinatious which took place; was simply as a reference
to those who had not seen her, for a confirmation of the
truth of my statements.
When I revert to the pains which have been taken to
throw obloquy upon this suffering female, I cannot dis-
cover why she has become the object ofso much virulence.
It could not have been derived from her ready compli•
ance with the wishes of the public, to examine into the
truth of her case; nor from the mere doubts which have
been excited by her opponents that she can see; uor yet
from the uncommon nature of her powers, but from some
other moth·c they may be afraid to own, lest it might incur
a su~picion that their opposition was not dbiuterc:;tcd.
Un b
PAEFACE,
It is certain that the examination of her opponents,
into the truth or falsehood of her statement, has gene-
rally been very slight. One or two visits, at times very
ofteo when the power became deficient, was the npplt•
re.nt c~use which induced them to take a decided part
ogai~st her; and although they heard from other indivi-
duals~ equally capable of exerci3ing theirjudgment with
therrisei\·es; that they had seen her distinguish colours,
read, &c. ~-ben covered with a mask, and frequently out
of the line of vision, or behind her; and who in a few
words declared, at one time she had failed in ~be trial,
and. at andther, bad succeeded ; yet her opponents
took as their guide, the instances of her failure, not the
proofs of her success. Having determined to d~clare her
110 impostor upon grounds, they must be aware were not
tenable, they went no more near her, but endea\'oured,
by repeating these assertions of imposture, i,o deter other
persons who were jnc!ined to visit her, from convincing
themselves of the truth or falsehood of their reports.
They must h1we been afraid of .the inquiry being pursued,
or they would not, by the most unwnrraatable insinua-
tiOJ?S, ha\·e endeavoured to arrest it, and to blacken the
character of an innocent female,
They ha,-e even taken advantage of the circumstance-,
that I did not answer their illiberal effusions against her,
to influence all within their sphere oi attraction ; and
they have induced some by persuasion, and others by"
fear of the consequences of believing in :>o extraordinary
a case, that they must be the only p«:r~ons who .could
give a true a.ccount, or make a decided ~xperiment !!!
I
It is oatnral enough to doubt in such a case as this, but
before ~entlemen did express their opinion so positively,
they ~>hould, at lea8t, have been assured of its correctness.
b
tlt b
..
. xiv PREFACE.
Cred.ulity is the charge they have,made against me and
the supporters of Miss M'Avoy's statement; but bow
have they pro,·ed my credulity, or her want of veracity'?
Not surely by the very trifling opportunities they had of
inquiry! Not from the experiments of Mr. Egerton
Smith! Nor from the hints of Mr. Sandars! And still less
from the evidence of the num~rous and respectable in-
_
dividnals who have seen .her give decided proofs of her
pos~ession of the powers related in the Narrative.
The opponents of Miss M'Avoy in their eagerness to
condemn her, have probabiy forgotten some material
points in the History' of Human Nature, or they would
have paused before they issued their dogmata upon this
curious case. They would have considered the occa•i-
onal vigour and evanescence of this power, as depending
upon other influence than that of deception. They
would not ba,•e branded Mis!il l'rl'Avoy as an impostor, if
they recollected that the energy of any sensation is pro-
' portioned to the degree of attention the mind may gh•e
to the external object which excites it. They would
have found also, that this energy is weakened by a re-
petition of these sensations, and might, if continued (oan
extreme degree, be entirely destroyed. Thus it was in
Miss M'Avoy's case, for, if she had been fatigued in the
exercise ·ofthis facultyto too great a degree, she lost tbe
po,ver, but again reco,·ered it, \Vhen she desisted for a time
.from distinguishing colours, reading, &c. Any agitation
or uneasiness 'produced a similar effect to the fatigue of
exerting her powers, and in a more rapid .way, for these
causes act~d more immediately upon the sensorinm, and
by weakening its energy, 'deprived the remote parts of
the body of the peculiar feeling which excited our atten-
tiQn. It ha~ also been obsen•ed, that two sensations will
not act with the same force, at the same moment, because
tbe stonger will generally overcome the weaker. Thus
Um Ca D1 1 .zed
l'ltEFAC:S. xv
when Miss M'Avoy's attention was excited by any cause
which was powerful enough to overcome the sensation
of her suiTerings, she would often distinguish colours,
read, &c.; but at other times when this excitement did
not exist, she succumbed under it, and the power was
diminished, or lost.
Mr. Egerton Smith came very early into the field, and,
because he conld not account for the powers he had wit·
nessed, in a light where he could barely discern the
leaves of a book, and with a bandage covering her eyes,
assert~d they must owe their origin to the influence of
vision! How far may scepticism be carried, if reason can-
not fix bounds to its range? -
It has been surmised that the opinions of Mr. Joseph
,.rSnndars were derived from his medical friends who
made him the vehicle for conveying their sentiments
of, orprejudices against Miss 1\I'Avoy. Bnt whether this
!~urmise be correct or not, I cannot acquit him of pre-
sumption in taking upon himself to criticise the facts re-
lated in the Narrative; but "Les passions Ies plus vio-
!entes laisl>ent quelquefois du relache, mais la vanite
nous agite touiours." There is also a striking evidence
. ~ r
from the sameness of the charges against Miss M'Avoy
in the different Jetter~, that they were obtained for the
mere purpose of making out a good case. It is well
known th~t Mr. Sandars declared his intention of puz-
zling- Miss .M'Avoy on the very morning of the dRy 6f
his visit, so that it may be fairly presumed he had pre-
judged the question.~;; .
• The p!Wiicalion of Mr. Sandars followed so immediately that ofthe Nar-
rative, that very little time was allowed for the perusal of the latter : the bOld
an:l positive assertions othim anr\ of hi; friends, induced the public to !Jeli~ve
he must be right, because that public could not conceive any mim would
han the hardihood, in the face of a multitudeofexperime-
nts, which had ~n
b
xvi PREJAC! •
The opportunitieswhich other persons had, who opposed
Miss M'Avoy's pretensions to the posse'ssion of peculi~r'
powet>=, as far as I am acquainted with them, ~ave not
been mnch greater-than· that from· which Mr. Sandars
drew his eonclusions.
.I have giyen an account of the two which Dr. 'frnill
had of examining into her case;' once at'Wavertree, and
once in St. Paul's Square. Dr. Vose also visited her at
Wavertree, and 'onceat her own bouse, when ShE\ was in ,.
convulsions. When I fir,:;,t·read the dame:s of Dr. Trailt
and Dr. Vose 'as the ·autHority for the opinion of 1\Ir!
Thompson, one of the ·Editors of the London :Medical
Repository, (alluded to above,) I mu~t own I \\:as ·sur-'
pri:;ed,· because I was conv-inced that nei,ther of the gen-
tlemen would. have been satisfied·with similar evidence
tn any other ~ase, as a proof of vision·.
'
' ' ..
It is well known I have taken th~ utmost pains to gh·e
every informati<in and e\"ery 'opp~rtunity ofexamination
into her case, which' individuals might wish: and it is
~ • -, I
tepeated also by different individuals, to foist upon it an opinion so hastily
formed, and so incautiously given; founded upon an almost momentary exa-
mlnation, ::.nd expres~ed at the time in a mannerindicative of a deficiency o£
common feeling, and of that .spirit of cool investigation, which should in-
fluence the man of 8cience n.ot to have decided without stronger grounds upon
a point, which to say the least of it, might be doubtful, and in which the cha-
.racter of a young female was seriousLy implicated. ·. ' ·'
The cbar~e· of impoSition "'as made·against i\fiss l\l'Avoy, and the fact•
in the Narrative were either not read, or were possed by as fictions brought
forward to deceive the public. The pcrus"l of these facts, and ofothers which
11·ill be noticed hereafter, will shew how imprudent it is to draw a too hasty
conclusi\)n whether in favour of, or against an occurrence of an extraordinary
naturl;. , Indeed, an imp,ytial person might doubt from the evidence upon
which they have acted, whether.Jhe char~c of imposition against the pubtic
might not, with rnore. proJnicty, be laid against someof her opponenb<, than.
~ainst l\!iss 1\I'Avoy.
fR!:FA~E.
' .'
xvJi
l, l
~tlaiJy well known that the greater part o~ those,'who
visited her, are perfectly 'convin'ced, not only ' of her~
blindness, but of.her having'possessed the peculiar pow-
'ers attributed to her.· In tpe Narrative T have said;" I
am merely the 'historian of her case, not 'the'advocate of
- '
imposture; and if any evidence ,be advanced, that she can
see, which is better'than what I have' produced Of her
blindness; I shall not hesitate to retract an opinion which
has not been founded upon slight 'grounds, nor without
the due consideration the subjectde'manded." '
I will even yet redeem this pledge ifany proofbe given
that she has possessed the ppwer of vision at any period
ff"om the '7th of June, 1816; ·to the present time; for I
have none of tbol'e feelings which would prevent me
from acknowledging an errror, if I had 'committed it, for
the acknowledgment of error is no degradation to.ariy
mao. But, until that time arrive, I must hold the opinion
I have formed from a multitude ofexperiments and facts,
for ·" Mea mihi conscientia pluris est, quam omnium
serm'o/' • '
lt was my intention many months ago) to publish the
Continuation of theNarrative of this Case, but the reasons
I have assigned, ha,-e induced me to defer it. I should
~till ha,-e deferred it, had it not been for that information
\Thich often reaches the individual the m~st interested,
the last of all.
I fuund the very persons who should have been guided
by the evidence of their senses, and who were strenuous
advocates in Miss M'Avoy'sfa\·our,diminisb, as it were,
one by one, because they found it hazardous in the ex-
treme to venture an opinion against ridicule, satire, and
sarcasm.
D g1t d by 050
xviii PREFACE.
I
By aceidental information I became acquainted with
the mode pursued by Miss M'Avoy's antagonists to make
her integrity suspected, and by charging me with credn··
lity to injure rile pr~fession·aliy, because a credulous maR
mustalways be doubte.d as a mnn of sound judgment; but
I might retort upon any.person who advocates this doc- ,
rine, that iucred!tlity is a weakness in him who refuses
.to believe that which he sees ; and becomes, \f he persist,
in •this conduct, a crime of no small magnitude ; more
particularly, when he attemps to stem the current
of truth by e9gulphing it in the dangerous ,·ortex of
falsehood.*
From an observation of a gentleman mentioned in
the Continuation of her case. I found that a system
had been adopted to make the public suppose the
whole affair an.imposition. ·From that moment I deter-
mined not to awmt the event of her deat~," which I had
befor·e intended, a~d which there had been every reason
to expect, at different periods for more than two years
past, but to publish the Continuation of her Case, to
state the facts as they really were, and to leave the public
to1judge of them. · ·
Liverpool, April 20tlt, 1820.
• Some of my friends have said with a smile, "Ah! Docklr, if our richer
merchants, or neighbouringgentlemen had related this case, your professional
brethren would each have examined into its Rature ; you would have been
Mved from the charge of credulity; and the numbers who would then have
believed in, and reported upon it, would have established the truth of the
statement with the public."
Umv Ca f it1 ed b
Um C Itt D tt ed
Univ C l1f D1g1t zed 0
THE
CONTINUATION OF THE NARRATIVE
OF
MISS l\IARGARET M'A VOY's CASE.
IN the Narrative, the account of this case is brought
down to the lst of October, and I shall proceed with the
continuation of it to the present time.
October 8th, 1817.-The effects of the mercury were •
very perceptible in the moutiJ and gums, and its use was
discontinued. Complains much of the pain and bea1ing
11ensation in the back of the head. Pulse 120.
Abdomen minus tensum evadit, sed, manu pressurn, dolote nfficitur.
Alvus solvitur, at dejectiones parvee tenesmo concomitantur.
Omitt. Lin. et l'iL Hydrarg.
Cap. 01. Ricin. 51 statim.•
October 9th.-Tbe pain in the head is still more acute.
Oleum ricini non sorlt~it.
Note. I receh•ed a note from Dr. Brandreth request-
ing me to obtain permission for the Bil'hop of Che~ter,
the Rev. Mr. Slade, Vicar of Bolton, and .M1ss Law, to
visit Miss 1\'l'Avoy. I sent Dr. B_
randreth's note with a
u v
2
few lines to Mr. Hughes, to enforce his request for the
necessary permission, which '"as refused upon the plea
of indisposition. Having received a I}Oie also from Mr.
Wm. Earle, upon the same su~ject, I went up to St.
Paul's Square, to visit Miss M'Avoy, and, to endeavour,
if her state of health permitted it, to gain her consent to
receive the above party, and the Dean of Chester, Dr.
Hodgson. As Miss .M'Avoy \Vas ,·ery poorly, I coin-
cided in the propriety of her not receh·ing any visitors.
Notes were sent to Dr Brandreth, and to Mr. Earle,
assigning· Miss l\'l'Avoy's illnes>', as the reason for refus-
ing the party admission. Dr. Brandreth however called
upon me the following morning, to say he had not
recieved my note until he returned home in the after-
noon, but that, in the mean time, he had accompanied
the Bishop and his party to St. Paul's Square, and found
Miss M'A"oy so Yery unwell that he declared his iuten_-
tion of not troubling her to make any trial of her
powers. Her usu~l good nature, howe\·er, prevailed
0\·
·er her distressing feelings, and she told Dr. Brandreth
she would try if she co•1ld distinguish colours, &c. Her
hands were so very cold that Dr. Brandreth rubbed them
with a towel for some time. The goggles were then tied
on, and she went throu~11 the different trials with consi-
derable correctness for a little time, but soon afterward~
lost the power.
October lOth.
Heri imbibit oleum ricini, et valde profuit.
She was induced from the persuasion of some of
her friends to go to the Oratorio with Mr. Thomas. As
there was some difficulty in obtaining an eligible seat,
Dr. Brandreth, being one of the ~ommittee, was applied
to, and he recommended her to sit under the orchestra,
Umv Calt Dtaitu d by M1c
3
where she woulq be less incommoded than any where
else. He w11s so polite as to attend her to another door
for this purpose. l\Iiss 1\I'A,·oy was supported on the
one side by Dr. B., and on the other by Mr. Thomas,
who, forgetting the circumstance ot her entire depend.
ence llpon them, were eng11ged in conversation. In
crossing the church yard, Miss M'Avoy's feet came in
contact \'1 ith a very low grave-stone, and, she would ha,·e
fallen, had she not been supported. When in the·church,
a book of the words of the Oratorio, or selection of
~acred music was given to her, but she could not read
the words with.her fingers; nor tlid she appear, from Dr.
Brandreth's account, to be particularly delighted with
the music, although she afterwards expressed herself
pleased with it. The strength of the chorus being too
powerful, she was \•ery soon obliged to leave the church
and return home. In the afternoon, Mr. Blundell, of
Ince, met m~ in St. Paul's Square, by appointment, and
Miss M'A,•oy went through the different experiments
very correctly. The goggles were first used, and then
the pieces of goldbeater's skin upon silk and veh·et.
Mr. Blundell e.xpressed himself s;1tisfied she was blind.
folded.
October 11 th.-Miss 2\I•..:\voy is considerably better.
Lord and Lady Li!ford, 1\Ir. and Mrs. Ireland Black-·
bnrue, .Mr. Rawsthorne, j\lr. Sankey, of Holliwell, 1\ir.
Wm. Perry,jun. and several other persons were present.
The goldbeater's skin and the goggles were separately
made use of to blindfold her, and the party expressecl
themseh·es satii'fied the co\·erings were effectual for the
purpose. She named th~ colour of silks, liquids, seals,
&c. the time of the day in different watches; sh~ told
one coloured liquor· behind her. With her hand upon
U IV ( If gtt ea Cl
•
4
the window, she said there was a gentleman standing
upon a part of the stone-work belonging to the church;
she said, correctly, he had his hands before him, and
afterwards that he held two bottles in his hands;. On
this day a circumstance occurred which I think it neces-
sary to state, as it gave greater currency to a report
which had been circulated before, that Miss j.\l'"';~voy
received money from the persons who visited her. Mr.
Wm. Perry, jun. now Dr. Perry, and I were only left
in the room, when the party went away, and we were
surprised at the return of the Rev. Vincent Glover, one
of the pnrty, who gaily said, I have bro'!ght money for
you, at the same time placing some silver in her lap.
Miss M'Avoy instantly refused it, and requested 1\lr.
Glover to return it to the parties, as she never took
money from any body. I was silent, determined to see
how Miss l\1'Avoy would act. Mr. Glover insisted on
her keeping the money, and as it could not be then
returned, she retained it. Mr. w·m. Perry and I then
went away. I mentioned the circumstance to Dr. Brand.
reth, and afterwards to the Rev. E. Glover, her confes-
sor, who both reprobated the placing Miss M'Avoy in
so unpleasant a situation.
Lord Lilford it seems was the.person who asked Mr.
V. Glover if Miss M'A\'oy was fond of fruit, which he
answered in the affirmative, and Lord Lilford gave a
few pieces of silver for the purpose .of purchasing it.
The iuentical money was wrapped up in paper, and
placed upon tbe mantle-piece. Upon .Mr. Hughes being
informed a few days afterwards of the circumstance, he
requested Mr. E. Glover to enclose it in a parcel direct.
ed to Lord Lilford, and accompanied with a polite note,
stating the reason for returniag if The family were
afraid of informing Mr. Hughes of it before, as it would
Umv Ca If 0/fl ue b
6
have told him that parties had been admitted after he
had positively declared his determination to refuse ad-
mission to every person who came to visit his step-daugh-
ter for the mere sake of curiosity.
October 13th.-Continues much the same.
I had some difficulty in obtaining liberty for a party
to visit her this afternoon, and as it was generally under-
stood_this would be the last large party the family would
ever admit again, the room was literally inundated, so
that the chairs, tables, and piano-forte were taken into ·
requisition as standing places, and several ladies in front
of Miss M'A\'OY were upon their knees during thi~ exa-
mination. Amongst the party were the Rev. Jonathan
Brooks, Mr. Thomas Cropper, Mr. John Cropper, Mr.
Thomas Corrie, Mr. Shuttleworth, Mr. Ingram, and ·
several other gentlemen and ladies, in all making thirty-
five persons, in a room about 11 ~ feet by 12!. As Miss
M'Avoy's eyes, particularly the left, were sore, I was in-
duced only tc:> apply one layer of goldbeater's skin upon
black velvet, with a piece of black silk placed upon the
centre, to prevent the ~ucilaginous matter of the gold-
be~ter's skin from irritating the eyes. Had I been aware
any ad\Tantage would have been taken of a circumstance
of this nature, I should certainly have applied both the
covt>rings as usual. She for the most part went through
the different experiments correctly, butas some observa-
tions were made that the covering was loosened from
the upper part of the orbit of the eye, I did not think
it necessary to lay any ~tress upon the eyelids being
closed, and the goldbeater's skin adhering so closely to
the lower part of the eyes as to draw the skin with
it when taken off. But in mentioning the circum-
stance in the last page of th·e Narrative, I declared
Un c.; db Mt ot
tlie whole.of the experiments this day to be nugatory as
to the proof required of her powers. The goggles were
nfterwards tied on, but Miss M'Avoy, from the great
, heat of the room, had become so exhausted; I was not
surprised at her not being able to name a single colour.
One of the young ladies present wished to try the cover-
ings, taken otT from Miss l\I'A,·oy's eyes, and, after
wetting the goldbeater's skin, I applied them to her eyes.
From having been used before, they did not adhere so
closely as to prevent the young lady opening the eyelids
by a moderate exertion of the muscles, and she was
able to tell the colour of a glo\·e, to name the time of the
day, and to read, I think it wa!l; the direction of a letter.
The young lady appeared satisfied in her own mind,
she had performed all Miss l\'I'Avoy had done, and ex-
pressed herself afterwards, I have understood, very con-
fidently in company, that 1\Iiss M'Avoy could see. I,
on the same day, however applied two fresh pieces of
goldheater's skin sewed upon silk or muslin to the yonng
lady's eyes, which, if sufficient time had been allowed
for them to ha\·e dried upon the cloS'ed eyelids, would
have sho'lvn the dilference .of po"ver in the two ladies.
As the young lady felt incoll\·enience from the apptica-
'tion, I immediately took ttem otT The goggles were
then tied O\'er the face of the same young lady, but not
l>eing able to bear the oppressive heat they occasioned,
they were removed.'* These were the only coverings
made use of.
October 19th.-Complains of head-ache. Pulse 72.
·Ah·i naturales ~unt dejcctioncs.
~ ~ee :\Ir. Sandars's comments upon .the ,·isit of this day, page :J.t and :1;;
mhis Hints. .
•
Umv C ,f o, byM ro
7
Uncovered she told the time of the day within two
minutes.
October 21st-Miss ~l'Ayoy bas been using the mer·
curial ointment for some days. Pulse 108.
Alvi dcjectioncs minimre, cum tcne~mo, et frequentes.
:ij. 01. Ricini. 3 I. ,cap. statim.
"
The Rev. J. Brooks, Major Brooks, Mr. Grey, and
Dr. Jardine, were present. The goggles were used, but
she could not name a colour, nor did she do so when
uncovered. She '''as a good deal agitated, and the pulse
rose to 132. As soon as the agitation ceased, it fell to
108, but she could give no proof of her powers.
Octobed~3d.-She felt herself very ill, and her bands:
were cold and clammy. Pulse 108.
Respondit bene oleum ricini.
~ l\'Ir. Grey met me by appointnwnt in St. Paul's Square.
The goggles were used. She named a few colours very
incorrectly. Upon pushing one of the fingers towards
the eye, she ne,·er blinked; but, in this instance, Mr.
Grey expressed himself as if he thought she had made
a resolute effort to hold the ~e more steadily when this
experiment was made. She told the time of the day in
two watches, which were put with their backs towards
her face, in a reclining position. I think at this time
she was unco~·ered, but it seemed to me hardly probable
she could have ~een the hands in the position the watches
were placed, e,·en if sbe had the power of vision. She
did not read well, but named the word " temptation'' ;
•
but this was not satisfactory, as the book had been
pJaced before her for some time. I turned over the leaf,
~nd CO\'ered it with my hand, until I could p~ace her.
8
hand in the situation mine had occupied ; with her fin-
gersunder her own hand she read, "I go~." I requested
her to name the letters, which she did, as written above.
Mr. Grey, who stood behind her, thought he also saw
these words. It is possible Mr. Grey might see them,
but from the position in which Miss M'Avoy sat, with
her face almost in a perpendicular line over the hand,
she must have seen through the hand to have discovered
the words. She could ~ot name the colour of a piece
of leather, red on the one side and buff on the other.'
Upon the whole of this trial Mr. Grey expressed his
opinion that Miss M'Avoy mu!!t see. The heat of her
bands by Farenheit's Thermometer was 92 degrees.
October 24th.-The eyes were very much inflanted
from the heat <1nd irritation produced by the different
coverings which had latterly been applied. 'She was
requested to bathe them frequently with luke-warm
milk and water. Pulse 96.
The Rev. James Hornby requested me to meet him in
St. Paul's Square. He was accompanied by Lady Mary
Stanley, his niece, the Honourable Miss Charlotte Stan-
ley, Miss Hornby, Miss Hesketh, and l\lrs. Brandreth.
With the goggles covering the face, she named the
colour of seyeral silks, the time of the day in two
watches, the colour of a green, and of a whitish seal.
She felt the reflected image of D"r. Freckleton, who
had just come into the room with Dr Brandreth, when
feeling through plain glass, and named him. She de-
scribed, in a similar manner, the face and person of Lady
Mary Stanley, and of Miss Hesketh, and the colour of
the hair of each, but she did not describe Miss Hornby,
who afterwards looked into the glass. She traced the
~gure of an old man upon Dr. Brandreth's snuff box,
9
much· more correctly tb~n when it was given to her
once before. She read, through a magnifying-glass, a
word or two only in .a book. It was obser\Ted that both
the box and the book, as held in her hands at the time,
were totally out of the line of vision if evtm she had the
n10st.perfect command of sight, and could have seen,
as it has been asserted, down the sides of_the nose:
October 25th.-Continues much the same. Pulse 108.
I was reqnested to meet his Excellency the Duke of
'San Carlos, this morning in 'St. Pnul's Squar~. and .l
•
found him accompanied by hvo gentlemen of his sui'te,
.and the Rev. Edward Glc;~ver. Before I arrivea, his
Grace had tried several experiment:> which Miss M'Avoy
succeeded in to the entire sath•faction of his Grace, and
the gentlemen present. The eyes were covered widt. t.be
goggle!=.
October 26th.-The eyes are very uneasy, and ~e
complains of pain in the bead. Her mouth and ·gums
were again affected with. the mercury, which she hai
used of her own accord for se..-eral days.
Alvus obatipatur1 dolore vilcerum concomit&ta.
Omitt. Frictio hydrarg.
llep. ::\list. Cathartica.
r.
October 27th.-The yessels of the tunica conjunctiva
are suffused with red .blood. She does not complai-f} .O.f
much pain in them, except when the eyes are cov~red
~r pressed upon. Pulse 120. Alvus astr·icta.
Rq~. l'tlist. Cathartica.
Several persons visited her, but she -did not g.h'e .any
,material proof of her powers.
p
10
October 30th.~CQ,mplains of more violent·pain in the
head., and throbbing across, and in the sockets of the
eyes. Fer _&Qme time past she has ·been _observed to
111iagger wh~n she rose from her chair, or walked acroSil
the room, but to-day the staggering o<:curred much more
frequently than before. The eyes are rather worse, and
the ey~lius indurated with cons_ide~able itching. Pul~t'!
96. Alvu~ minus dura.
, llep. Mist. Cathartica.
R Vng. Cetacei.
- - Hydrarg. Nitrat. aa. 5 ii. M. ut n.
ynlf enJUs pau~illum, pencilli hirsuti camelini auxilio, inter c:ili~m radices.
• quaque ·nocteapplicetur.
R Zinc! Sulpbat. gr. vi.
Aq. Fontanre, .3viii.
M. ut ft. CoJlyrium quinquiesde die utendum.
No,.ember lst.-The red suffusion of the eyes,_
aud the
induration of the ~yelids are reJie,·ed. The abdomen is
much softer. The pain of the head, the oppre~sion of
the chest, and the uneasy sensation about the region of
ihe heart are mqch increaped. She walks more un~tea­
dily across the room, and, when she rises from her chair,
would frequently fall if not supported. She has fal!en
when there was no support near, and o-nce 1 saved her
from falling into the.(ire.
She <'Ould not name n colour t~r read a \vord, but when
covered with the,goggles, she told the time of tbe day
correctly as to the minute hand, but said it was twenty-
five minutes past 12 o'clock instead of eleven.
No''ember ~nd.-Was notso well to-day. Pulse nuy-
ing from 68 to 108, moderate in fulness, hut slightly
iuteflnitting.
J'au!o tardatnr urina.
llibat libere Jaticcm imperialcm.
11
She was· employed ir,. 1naking·little ornaments of~
coloured paper. Upon being asked if she could distin-
.guish the one colour from the other, sbe Said she could,
but it was not from the colour, htJt from the different
sensation eachpaper, from its texture,impreised upon hel'
·fingers.
November 4th.-The. pain in the f8re and back part
of the head, awl the beating sematiou continue with
increased violeace. 'J'he .oppressi!>n of .the chest, t~e
tightness about tile heart, and the difficulty of breathing
~re much worse. P~lse u10derately full, but variablein
frequency from 96 to 120. The etl'ects of the mercury
.are still perceptible· in the mouth and gu_m~, but there ha.s
been no ptyalism.
,I,.ingua pellita; alvus soluta; et urina 11berius reddita,. E nare de~o, pu-
•ium cuticula~ ~cinarum, e11:orians, dejicitur ma~ri!;S ~.crjs.
f?at. V. ~ statim.
The quantity of blood drawn di.d ~ot exceed five
ounces, ere sbe feJt faint, but there seemed'to be a good
deal of firmness in the coagulum, with onJy. m.odcrate
rortion of serum.
Si sit occasio Yespere Repr. V. ~~~
· November 5th.-It was not thought nece&...:ary to
repeat the bleeding. The pain in the head is \'ery·
violent, and she starts up invotun1arily frf)m her c}iai.r
upon ~ny sudden noi~e or alarm. ..
Has had no power of distinguishing cotcnus ·for some ·
.days. Can neither sew nor thrc.:ad a .needle. 'l'he .day ...
before yesterday she attempted to thread IIi needle but .
did not succeed, till she bad mncle ,many -trial,;. ,. bt ·'
1l-ttempting dterwards to hem a piece of ~inen, ·~h"'
12
pricked her- fi'ne:ers oftener. than ~he p:m!!ed H throt~gh
the lineu, and wii.S obliged to gh·e it up.. Puls~ 88.
Lingua IIOR tam I!Cabra ~ ·ted alvus iterum obstipatur.
Repr: Milt. Cathartica.
November 6th -Appears better to-day, although !!he
does not think herself so. Pulse 84: to 9&. ·
Ah,
'Us tamen auppres!I8-
Repr. Mi,st. Cathartica
! found the Rev. Edward Glo,·er, Mr. Bullock, ~~
London: and Mr. Roskell, in St. Paul's Square. · What
experiments they bad made before I arrived, I am not
a~are of,. but with the goggles on, and with her band
covering that part of the hook, she read four words,
" the voice we love,'' but she could neither tell the time
of. the day, nor name a :;iugle colour of silk or of an.y
!'eal. A g<?ld pin with a g_reen stone was put into her
hands. She said the pin was gotd, but she could not
name the colour of the stone. l\lr. Bullock and l\lr.
Roskell tried t.he goggles, on~ after-the other, and \Vere
perfectly sati::;fied of their efticacy in bHndfolding them-
se,lyes, and had no doubt of l\liss 1\<l'Avoy having been
blindfolded. :\Ir. S. I. Browne, of Bath, who came in
about this time with Mr. Thomas, in con.sequence of an
appointment made with me the day before, abo trittd
them upon his own eyes, and expressed him:;elf in an
equally confident manner. Mr. Bullock wished to take
.the goggles with him to London, aud l\lrs. HughPs an,t
her daughter good-nature3Jy compli('d with !•is wish.
l\Jr. Browne obtained no proof of her powers this morn-
ing, as after his arrh·al i'he could not do anything. He
called upon me about ten o'clock in the e\~ening· to
expr.es:.o: his thanks for my attention, and to say he had
been at l\lrs. Hughes's houto:(' the greater part of the
-~~·~ning, and bad bc.en highly gratified with an e:¥!dbition
13
of th~ powers of Mi!'s M'Ayoy. He declared himself
fully con_vinced of their reality. It is his intention to lay
them befor.e the Bath Literary and Philosophical Society•
..
·. An account of thes!'l e?'periments was published in the
~ath and Cheltenham Gazette, soon after the abo,·e
period.
November 8th.-She complained yesterday of having
b~en much fatigued with the exertion of making
gog~es for ~Ir. ~rowne, w~o wished to h~ve -a
pair. It seems she did not complete them until after fi\·e
.hours alternate' labour and relaxation. Complains of
thf' pain and throbbing in the head, ?ppression of the
.chest, difficult breathing-, and tigbtne:ls about the region
of the heart. The eyelids are more painful, and there
i::; a slight dh;charge from the meibomian glands.
Ah·us constricta.
Repr. Mist. Cathartica.
1-'iat V. S. "t Detr. Sanguinis 3 vi. ad 3 viii-
F.ight oun£'es of.blood were taken away from the arm,
.md she felt considerable relief in the chest, and the
difficulty of breathing became less violent. There
appeared to be more contraction and dilatalion in the
pupil, but the sudden presentation of the fingers to-
either eye did not make hN blink.
November 9th.- The blood which had considerable
tenacity yesterday, is more loose in its texture, and a
considerable part of the red globules might have been
poured out in a fluid state. The proportion of serum
was more considerable than usual. Complains of sick-
n~i's at the stomach, and rP,jf'cts her food.
J3. Aq. Fontan"' 3 xii.
. Kali aerat, 5.iv.
)[. Sllplat cochl. ii. cum: i. sue. I.imonum 4ta. q. q. bora.
,. c
14
November IOth........The pain and throbbing of the
bead, with the deep-seated pt1inin the socket. of the eyes,
stiU continue. The giddiness is increased, and attended
with twitching of the legs and arms, and great irritability
of the whole muscular ilystem. Pulse from 84 to 108.
November IIth.-The saline mixture, and every thing
she took, were rejected. The pain in the head is more
violent, particularly in the back part. Pulse 84 to 96.
She was advised to take a roasted apple now and then.
Abradato c:apillitio, appr. Empl. Lytle ampllal. eapltl posteriori.
November I2th.-The blister was not applied. The
pain is no better.
Alvus aatricta.
Repr. PU. Cathartic. vi. h. li.
Repr• .Mitt. Cathartica. u. a.
November l5th.-All the symptoms are much increas-
ed in violence, except the sickness, which was relie,·ed,
she thinks, by the roasted apples. Alvus lene solvitnr.
Pulse varying from 108 to 120. '
Repr. PU. et Mist. Cathartiea, u. a.
Appr. Emp. Lytta: ,mpL capiti abradato.
November 16th.-The blister \l'as not applied. She
was seized with com·ulsions about 12 o'clock last night
The right side is paralytic, and there is almost a con~tant
twitching, with contractions of th~ limbs and toes, with
a quick alternate rising and falling motion of the shoul~
ders and elbows. Occasionally when the fits are most
violent, her left hand and arm is fixed against her breast
or head. If force be used to detach them, the whole
.body is brought (orward. Dr. Hannay and I tried to
separate them with a very considerable power, bu~
without effect. If any attempt)>e made to hold the feet
or the hands, the resistance seems to be increased, and
rm, C I D,g t d
16
the com•ulsive motions become evidently more violent.
The peculiar sensibility of the right foot, upon any
sudden pressure, has again occurred. The eyes during
the paroxy:im are generally turned upwards in the head,
sometimes, when the convulsions are notso violent, they
roll about from side to side. The heat betweea her lips
by Farenheit's Thermometer was 100, ~nd ~tween the
toes 9! degrees. Pulse varying from 8.2 to 120
Appr. Bmp. L7tt1e capt\t abradate.
November 17th.-There appears a good deal more of
hysteric affection combined with the convulsions than
formerly, she sobs occasionally, and tears flow. The
twitchings \vere so violent, that I could not count the
pulse. .The blister rose very well.
Alro' lihue sorvitur.
November 18th.-Is much the !mme. She appeared
11ensible for about four minutes, and, upon examining.
the eyes during this period, they contracted and dilated
much more stroNgly than I had observed them to do
before. During the convulsion the pupils could rarely
be seea, but the eye-ball moved ttt and fro very quickly.
She takes no other food, but a very small quantity of
coffee mixed with milk and sugar.
November 19th.-Her mother informed me that Miss
M'Avoy was so littlesensible yesterday, she did not recol-
lect 1 had visited her. Upon pinching very se,·erely, the
skin of the right arm, she expressed no sensation of
pain. Alvus astricta.
H.ooie menseslldfueruDt per borai aliquot, et vespere diRparllerlmt.
Repr. mi,~ Cathartlt>.
16
November 20th.-During my visit sbe Wlls not sensi-
ble. From theconvulsive twitchings being mor~ frequent:
I could not count the pulse. '
Novem"ber 21st.-The convulsions are not quite so vio-
lent as before. At first, the pulse varie~,from 84 to 108;
in fifteen seconds, at another time, it rose fro'm 96 to 132
pulsations in the mim1te: Upon coming out of the con-
vulsions, she took'a little colree,. mixed with sugar and
new milk. The thermometer stood at 99 between the
lips,·and 1\t 88 between the toes.
. . .. '
Dr. Jeffreys, Mr. Perry, !lurgeon rlentist, and Mr. CoO<-
per accompanied ine·to v1sit Miss l\l'A"'Q'y. · After SQnle
time, an experiment m~tde by'D'r. Duncan, of 'Edinburgh.
upon a young woman labouring under hysteria was
mentioned. He introduced a pointed needle between the
1Qe and the nail, which immediately roused the patient.
After this -.ci-rcumstance was repeated, it. was observed.,
that Miss M'Avoy lay in a more tran1Jnil state, an~ the
convulsions ceased for a short tiine. This state of tran-
quillity had occurred before nt 1nterYalf.il: it was doubted
by the party, if this qtlie8cent state had not been produc·
ed by hearing the account·of the above experimenu, and
more particularly, as ~he afterwards said, npoa the toes
being held firmly by Mr. Perry or l\Ir. Thomas, who had
ju~t arrh·ed, we were going to do something with her, or
words to that effect. About this time the Rev. E. Glo\·er
came in. It was proposed to insert a needle into the
quick of the great toe of the right foot. Mr. Perry held
the toes vdth one hand, and, with the other, be in8erted
a needle to the depfh of the eighth of an inch or more:
~lie did not appear to be sensible of any pain. It was
thought advisable to repeat this experiment, and be
a~aiu took hold of the rig.·ht toe, but it seemed, as .it
Un v Cal f Dlgtt by
17
were to shrink from his grasp, and, the more tightly he
held it, the resistance was the greater, until at last after
numerous efforts, he again introduced the point of the
needle under the nail of the great toe, but, as he said,
not near so deep as the first. At the moment of intro-
ducing it, she almost sprang up in the bed, and became
more strongly convulsed and agitated. Her face was
more flushed than usual, and drops of perspiration stood
upon the upper lip. The idea, I have little doubt, which
occurred to some of the gentlemen present, was, that
the sudden starting and agitation were solely owing to
the puncture ofthe needle, but, if this were the case, I
see no reason why these effects should not have been
produced equally by the first puncture. Mr. Perry was
positive the first puncture was the deepest, and h~ declar-
ed this to be his opinion after the second puncture bad
)>een made. I have no doubt from the difficulty Mr.
Perry had in holding the toes steadily, that he pres$ed
his hand upon the sole of the foot, at the moment of in-
troducing the needle a second time, and that the sudden
starting and agitation were owing to this cause only,
and not to the puncture of the needle. :Moderate pres-
sure with the hand on the sole of the foot, or, ifpre:;sed
suddenly upon the bed, or on the floor, had frequently
a similar effect, but in a degree proportioned to the pres-
sure.• Mr. Cooper and I pinched severely her right
arm, but she did not appear sensible of it. The rosary
which had been presented to her by Mr. Gandolfi, who
visited her some months ago, she generally wore about
her neck, but I observed to-day that it was fast locked
in her right hand, and round her wrist. At half past
seven o'~lock, P. M. f visited Miss M'Avoy with Mr.
Thomas, and found her in stropg convulsions_. We
• Vide Narrative.
c
18
.e:c:amined the toe, which had been punctured, with con-
siderable difficulty, during the few moments, when the
.convulsions ceased. It. had not bled externally, but
there appeared a redness under the nail, extending
over about half its length. I asked her if she felt me
pinch her, or any particular pain -M the time we visited
her. She said she had not felt any pain. l\lrs. Hughes
was not then aware that any puncture bad been made,
' which was a proof l\Iiss M'Avoy had not known it, or
'she would, ere this, haYe informed her mother of it.
Upon pressing the sole of the foot at two different times,
it retracted very suddenly, and was affected with nearly
as much violence as when the second puncture was made
with the needle. She fell immediately into convulsions,
each time the pressure was made.
November 22nd.-The convulsions are not so violent.
Pulse 96. As she comes out of the couvi1lsions the
pulse is much more frequent. Ha,;; taken very little
• food, and could not take the cathartic pills, nor the
infus. sennre, from a difficulty in swallowing. Com-
plains of tightness and oppression in the chest, and of
pain about the region of the heart. Alvus parum
soluta. . Cutis mollis.
Mrs. Hugh~s found out by the questions Mr. Thoma!!
'and I asked yesterday, and by conversation with Mr.
Clover, the nature of the experiment we had made upon
her daughter, anct gave us a 'very severe reprimand for
having acted in so cruel a manner. The case is howe,·er
of so extraordinary a nature, that, upon the proposal
being made, I felt myself justified in allowing the trial
of any experiment, which 'vonld satisfy the minds of the
gentlemen prel;ent, withont being materially detrimentRI
to ~lis~ .1\1'Avoy. I believe abo the cruelty was more
1~
in appearance than reality, u I have every reason to
think she suffered no pajn ; at any rate ~o bad effects
resulted from it.
November 25th.-I found her very much improved,
~!though occasionally conv~llsed." About ll o·clock this
morning a discharge took place, similar to that which
uccurred in June, 1816, a part of which had been ana-
lysed by Dr. Bostock, The quantity obtained did not
exceed half ~n ounce,· One portion of it was sent to
Sjr Josep4 Banks, and another to pr, Monro, of Edin-
burgh: ~sort of tick tt:!-ck np~~ was heard as the fluid
passed down from above into the stomach, and a sense of
suffocation occurred. Complains of considerable throb,.
bing in ~he back part qf the head, and there appears aq.
enl~rge~nent at *he upper part pf ihe qcciput: Alvu!?
ljbere movetnr, · · ·
November 26th.-Is much better, ant\ has had very
few convulsions this morning. Dr. Hannay accom-
panied me, and during our stay she was not convulsed.
Complains of ,·iolent pain in the sockets of the eyes, but
the general pain of the head is somewhat better. She
feels occasionally, as she expr~sses it, a whirling sensa-
tion in the head. Pulse 84. The fluid passes down
more quietly, and does not bring on the sense of suffo~
cation so frequently:
November ~7th.-A little more fluid was obtained
yesterday, but the discharge appears now to hav~ entirely
ceased. Complains of pain in the head. The eyelids
are sore, and there ~s a slight spfl\tsion ~n the tunic~
conjunctiva. Pulse 108.
November 30th.-Complains of more. pain m the
h~ad and in the sockets of the eyes. Pulse 120~
Repr. Fricti~. Ungt. hydrarg.
20
December lit.-She is still wone to-day. Wa.s engag.
ed in netting apurse, but was frequently obliged to put
1tdown, being troubled with considerable twitchings
and tremhling·s of the hands and arms, which affect
also the lower extremities. Pulse 120, and variable in
strength.
December 6tb.-Sbe was bett~r for two or three days,
but, to-day, is more complaining. A gentleman front
London, of the name of \Villiall'ls, visited her, and I
nnderstand he expressed himself more favourably
towards l\Iiss~f'Avoy after, than he had done before his
visit.
December Sth.-Compl~ins very much of pain in the
bead, and particularly in the sockets of the eyes, and
the least motion or noise increases it. The eyelids are
much swelled. and matter is occasionally effused from
them. The ves~els of the t~nica conjunctiva are _
filled
with red blood. Pulse 120. A blister was ordered to
the back of the head, but its application was deferred
from the head not being perfectly healed.
December lOth,~Is rather better, was sewing patch-
work, but she could not distinguish colours, nor the
figures of the different patches. Her mother was oblig·
ed to give her the various pieces in the position they
~·ere to be sewed together. The sensation from pres-
f'ure at the bottom of the foot still continues, and when
the experiment is tried, it increases the pain, and shoots
up, particularly to the crown~ of the head, Pulse 84. •
December ll tb,~She named two colours to-day, unco-
vered; her fingers dwelt upon the fingers of the watch,
but she could not tell the time of the day. Pulse 108.
Alvus lene dejicit~r.
n
21
December 15th.-The convulsions continue in the
night. Pulse from 96 to 108.
December 19th.-Is much the same. Complains of
pain and tightness about the region of the heart, with
alternate chills and heats, coming on about six o'clock,
P. M. The mouth is not yet affected with the mercury.
The thermometer stood at 52 degrees in the 6'pen air;
in the bed-room where there was no fire, at 62. The
.heat of her hands was 86, and in the mouth 106. Pulse
from 108 to 120. Alvus liquatur.
December 29th.-Continues much the same, but the
convulsions come on·earlier in the·evening, and termi-
nate sooner in the night. She sleeps little, and from
the oppressive sensation abo~t the region of the heart, ,
she cannot lie down when the convulsions have ceased.
'l'he issue discharges freely. Pulse 96; takes very little
f-ood. _
Employs herself in sewing, but cannot tell a
colour. Alvus suppressa.
December 3Ist.-The convulsions cea1ed since the
evening of the 29th inst. The convulsive motion of
the diaphragm, the difficulty in· breathing, and the op-
pression about the heart are returned with considerably
more violence. The pulse varied from 45 to 98.
January lst, 1818.- Continues much the same as yes-
terday. Pul~e variable, not easily to be counted, but
not exceeding 96. The hands and fingers are very cold,
to the touch. The thermometer in the room stood at
58 ; when held in her hands it rose to 86 ; in the mouth
it was 106 ; and in the upper part of the eyelid 102. The
mercury has slightly affected the mouth. Coffee and
milk mixed with cream and sugar, is still .her principal
food. Whenever she takes a mouthful or two of solid
food, even of bread, it disagrees with her, and lies for
several hours as a weight upon her stomach. Ahrus
paulo astricta.
January 3rd.-Complains still more of oppression
about t~ region of the heart, with difficulty of breath-
ing. Pulse from 96 to 108; variable and feeble. Lin.,.
gua freda. Alvus paullulum soluta.
Detr. Sanguinis e brachio S viii.
The blood drawn had a slightly huffy coat. The pulse
became more steady; the difficulty in breathing, and the
spasmodic affectjon of the diaphragm were evidently
relievt:?d.
R OL Ricini. 3 i. Capt. statim.
January 4th.-Continues rather better: Pulse from
96 to 108. She had not taken the castor oil.
January 6th.-Continues muc~ the same, but the diffi-
eulty of breathing is increased.
R~pr. V. S. et Detr. Sang. e brachio, 5viii:
l\Ir. Thomas b~ing epgaged, l\Ir. Dale bled Mi-"S
~\l'A,·oy, · which relieved her from the difficulty of
breathing, but she became very faint: .
• January 7th.-The convulsive motion of tl1e dia-
phragm is better ; there was little or no buff upon the
blood, but it was cupped. Pulse 120. Alvus majis
astriota. Lingua tamen freda.
R Vin. Antimon. 3ss. Capt. G. ::t. ter de die.
Repr. Jnfus. sennre. u. A-
Umv Cal tCittt
23
January 9th.-The drops agree very 'Well with th"
stomach. She took a distaste to the coftee and milk.
lilouillon was given to her whic4 she threw up. The
convulsive motion continues, with oppression about the
heart, and frequent catching or gasping in the breath·
ing. The legs and feet swell towards the evening, and
she complains of a sense of fulness in the hand:o, face,
and body. · The face appears more leucophlegm'atic,
but otherwise she is very little altered in appearance,..
though·somewhat thinner in the body.
'•
January I I.-Continues much th~ same.
Repr. V. S.
About six ounces of blood were obtained, whilst run·
ning down the arm ; the blood had a -ferruginous ap-
pearance.-Pulse from 86 to 120.
January 12.-The red particles of the blood drawn
yesterday are probably more fluid, and there is a larger
proportion of sernm than before. The serum is ofa turbid ·
milky appearance. The pulse variable, frmn S·.l: to
108. Complains still of pain in' the sockets of the eyes,
and at the back of the bead. '
January ]~t-Is so much better to-day, that the dpp-
nrea and convuhive motion were hardly perceptible, and
the lancinating pain about the region ofthe heart is very
much relieved. Pulse 96, more regular and moderately
soft.. Her appetite is very indiifNent. Is not con.
scions of obtaining any sleep. Employs her~elf in.
sewing, and making little ornaments with coloured
paper. Alvus libera.
f oft
24
January 14.-The convuliive motion, ·dyspncca, and
pain about the region of the heart have returned in some
degree. Pulse 72.-Alvns soluta.
January 15.-The convulsive motion and dyspnoea
were more violent. Pulse 84.
The ReT. Mr. Chippendale, of Winwick, accompa-
nied me to-day', with his nephew, Mr. Dixon. Miss
M'Avoy said she had told two colours yesterday, but
the power was very weak. She told the colour of the
metal of Mr. Chippendale's watch, but she did not
name the colour of the seals, nor the time of the day~
Repr. V. S.
January 16.-Mr. Thomas took about six ounces of
blood from Miss l\I'Avoy this morning, and it almost
immediately relieved the dyspnrea and convulsive mo-
tion, ~hich were more violent thaa yesterday. The
blood was slightly huffy. Pulse 84 to !:16.
Janmiry 17.-Continues much the same.
The Rev. Doctor Knott and Lord Molyneux expres-
sed a wish to see Miss M'Avoy, and I accompanied
them to St. Paul's Square. She could_not distinguish
any colour.
January 20.-Continues much the same. Th~ lanci-
nating pain is considerable. Pulse 96 to 108.-Alvus
modice cietur.
llepr. V. S.
About eight ounces of blood were taken away, The
Umv Ca IT
25
convulsive motion left her at the time, but returned
ag~in in the evening•
.January 22.-The suspension of breathing is returned.
She had two attacks in less than half an hour during- my
visit. Durin'g the sm~pension, the pulse varied fr;nn 90 to
120 pulsations in the minute. It continued for nearly half
a minute. · Her hearing is much more acute. The least .
noise gh·es her a sensation uf sl)mething rushing through
the head, and if it be lond, ~he compares it to the noise
produced by the firing of cannon.
Jsnuary 23.-The breathing was suspended four tim~s
in the space of five minutes, for about ten seconds each
time. She feels in the night time, when laying her bead
down, a sensation, as if she were sinkin~ through the
sofa, but she bad no power .of speaki~g or ofexpressing
her feelings, \vhen her mother entered tl>e room, al-
though she wished her head might be lifted up from the
pillow; this sensation comes on also when she lies upon
either side or upon her back. Mrs. Hughes supposed
she slept wh~n at first she saw her in that situation. She
often rests her head upon either hand, with the elbow
upon the back of the sofa.
Janoary 25,-Tbe suspension of breathing is morci
frequent than before. Pulse 108. "Alvus soluta.
January 26.-From this date to the 29th the pulse
,·aried from 72 to 112. The suspen!ilon of breathing
<;ame on y~ry frequently.
January SO.-She threw up a consiaerable quantify of
bilious matter, which gave her relief. The duration o(
D
r. d
26
the attacks of suspension of breathing became shorter,
and the intervals longer. Pulse 96. Alms astricta.
Repr. Pi!. Hydr. submur. c. Jalap. u. a.
January :n.-The pills \Yere not taken. Complains
of the pain about the region of the heart being more
severe, and it is attended with considerable twitching of
the limbs. The pain in the back part of the head, and
in the sockets of the eyes, bas increased in violence.
Pulse 96.
February 2.-The suspen:sion of breathing is lessened,
but the pain about the region of the heart contiAues.
Pulse 96 to 108. Diarrhrea spontanea :supen·eniente non
sorbuit Pil Hydr. submur.
February 4.-Complains of numbness in the bands,
alternating from one to the other.
February 8.-The conl-ul:sive motion of the diaphragm
returns in a slight degree. Complains of pain in the
head and sockets of the eyes.
February 12.-The suspension of breathing is better,
but the convul~ive motion of the diaphragm and pain
about the region of the heart are increased. Pulse 120.
February 16.-Tbe suspension of breathing is still
more relieved. The knocking at the door, although the
knocker is covered, affected her very much to-day, and
she did not reco,·er herself during my visit. The pulse
was so irregular, as not to be counted with any degree
of accuracy. ·
27
February 20.-ls rather better, but complains of a
violent pain in the knee coming on occasionally, which
she says, is only relieved by rubbing the hip with the
hand for some time. She attributes this palo to having
hurt her back, when in convulsions, by falling out ofbed.
For some time has complained of pain in the left side,
along the course of the short ribs. Pulse 120. Alvus
non dejicitur:
February 25.-·The pain about the region of the heart
is not so frequent. Pulse 108, feeble and intermittin~.
Doctor Hannay soon after came in, and upon feeling
the pulse, he obser~ed it was fuH and regular; upon
feeling it just then it was 'as he stated it to be, but in a
few seconds it became again feeble, irregular, and in-
termitting. Upon examining the left side, it appeared
a good deal fuller than natural. Pressure with the fin-
ger'gave her much pain. The pupils were more dilated
than I had ieen them for some time, and upon the ap-
plication of a candle near the pupils, they contracted
considerably, and became dilated again when it was
taken away. Complained of the heat of th~ candle.
The eyes watered, and they appeared rather sore, but
upon tlte quick appJication afterwards of a needle, and
of the finger as near to the eye as they could be applied
with safety, she did not blink in the slightest degree.
February 27-.-Continues much the sa~e. Pulse 120.
Alvus lene elicitur.
Mr. William Dixon, junr. having a wish to see l\liss
M'Avoy, accompanied me: He noticed that whilst he
was speaking to her the spasmodic affection was not so
frequent. This I bave observed to be the case, when
..
28
her attention has been engaged by any one £peakin1;'
upon a ~uqject which interef:ted her; but when this has
happened, the following paroxysm has been generally
much increased in violence. She attempted to feel some
colours without success. Mr. Dixon tried on the gog-
gles, with which he said be coqld see very well. when
he had widened the part!' over the nose with his finger!,
and he could see a littie before he enlarged them. I
found them stretched so wide, that n. finger might be
inserted with great ease between the nose and the gog-
glei' where it should have been closed. Thes~ goggle.s
had been made since the power of distinguishing colours,
~c. became deficient, · They were then tried upon .Mbs
:M'Avoy, but. after remaining on a short time only, she
was seized ''~"ith a suspension of breatlting, which had
not occurred for some days before.
March 2.-Complains of more pain in the left side. If
there be loud speaking, she bears it very acutely, but
confu~<edly, and says it returns again and again, as if an
echo n·ere repeated, until it gradually dies away. Ifone
speak slowly in a wbi.!lpering manner, she.bears more
distinctly than when spoken loi1dly to. Pul.!lc full :mel
'irregular, about 96 in frequency. Ah·us modici', urina.
parce elictqr.
R Aq. Font; J Tii
Spr. acther nitric•
syr :niigiber. 3m
Yin: antimon: 3 ii
Capt. Co~h.. Hquarta quaque horll s-i ur~eat dysuria.
:\larch 4.-She grows worse. The ~u.!lpeusion of
breathing returns upon any sudden noise or alarm,
sometimes from merely dressing the issue il'l th~ side.
c f
29
The first dose of the medicine gave her pain and unea·
siness in the stomach, with a sense of weight at her
breast, which continued for several hours. Complains
\·ery much of cramp in the left hand and arm during the
night, and sometimes in the day. The almost constant
pain anq uneasin(lss she suffers appear very much to
depress her spirits. The pulse is so \"ery irregular that
it c:mnot be counted. The pupils are less dilated. Has
no power of distinguishing colours.
~larch S.-The tightness of the chest, and oppression
of breathing are increased. Pulse 96, and irregular.
Ahus obstructa.
· Fiat V. s. statim.
About five ounces of blood were taken from the arm,
which was of a very deep red colour, and after standing,
had a slight huffy coat upon it. The tightness of the
chest, nnd opprei'sion in the breathing were relie\·ed, but
immediately after the arm was tied up, she was seized
with a sudden spasm; ber head was bent down upon
the breast, and her hands were so fast locked upon the
stomach, that I could not detach them fr<!m it u~til it
ceased. The face was flushed, anti the muscles of the
face and neck were violently contracted. She became
generally very faint ·when the issue was dressed, and it
1\"as ordered tP be dried up.
llepr. Infus. Scnn::e u. a.
Applicctur Empl. Lytt::e amf'1J$s. literno•
.
:Marcp !J.-'rhe blister was applied to the breast, but
has not risen. She was desired to let it remain on until
the morning. The side was examined in the presence of
Doctor Brandretll, l\Ir. Dale, and Mr. Thomas, an·d
ao
they were satisfied of the enlargement existing. Com-
plains ofcold shiverings coming on occasionally, but of
these she had before spoken, when there was no tnmified
appearance. Doctor Brandreth advi!;;ed the 'application
to the tmnified parts, of a lintseed eataplasm, with
opium. A spasm came on during our visit. There was
no pulsation iu the wrist during the time it continued,
but it was felt in a slight degree as soon as !She began to
recovet· from it.
March 10.-The spasms are more frequent. The blis-
ter rose pretty well. Since Tuesday last she has scarcely
taken any food w.hatever. A very trifling quantity of
coffee, with milk and sugar, is her only food. She took
a small piece of barley sugar, and the least bit oftoffee,
a composition of sugar, treacle, 'and butter, boiled to a
proper consistence, which produced ,·iolent heat in the
stomach.
The twitching was so much increased, that the pulse
could ~ot be counted. Th~ cataplasm was omitted as
she felt it uncomfortable. Per quip,que dies urinre
•emilibra solummodo reddita fuit.
March) 1.---;-Is rather better. She took a ''ery small
quantity of tamarinds. Her face has become more ema-
ciated within the last teQ·days, than I h:n·e seen it before
during her long illness. The eyes are more sunk in the
head, but, upon speaking to her, they somethnes emit an
extraordinary brilliance. The spasms. are not so fre·
quent. Alvus astricta. Urinre semilibra per horas viginti
quatuor reddita fuit. ·
n v It
31
:March 15.-Tbe symptoms are better. Urina modicar-
alvus obstipato.
Rcpr. Infus~ senn~~e.
Capt. Pi!. H7dr. submur; c. Jalap: sex u. a.
si lit accasio ad alvum solvendam.
The night before last ·she was alarmed by a roaring
noise in the chimney, and a smell of smoke and fire.
After knocking upon the wall with her stick, her step-
father was awakened, and came down. It appeared
that a Yery good fire had been left when they Went to
bed, and the flame by some means h11d communicMed
with the soot in the chimney, which was set on fire.
Yesterday afternoon ·she felt something in her left ear,
and upon putting her finger into it, it was moistened
with a fluid, which, upon enquiry, she said was of age-
Jatinous nature. ' Her mother ~;ays it was clear, like·
water, and might amount in quantity to about a -tea-
spoonful.
Marcb 17.-Is very considerably better. The swel-
Jing in the left side increases. There is a fulness ex-
tending from ttre cartilago ensiformis over a part of the
epigastric region, following the division of the ribs on·
the left side. It is so excessively painful upon pressure,
that I can scarcely determine its exact situation, or its
nature. Has taken two tea-cup$ full of coffee, milk,
and sugar, with a ,·ery little bread and butter. . Has had
no spasm in the night. Dejectioncs ah·i duas habuit
astrictas.
Repr. lnfus: CCnDe u. •··
Minch 19.-The con\"ub:ive · affection of thn dia·
phragm is much reliev~d, but tho spasms recur more.
v
'
32
frequently, particularly in the nft~rnoon, ~nd iu the
night. The pain of the head still continues, but not
with so much acuteness as before. "Pul:se 108. Lingua
pura. Alvus libere soluta.
l\Iarch 21.-Complains of the pain in the l1ead, aud
in the sockets of the eyes, being more violent; al~o of
numbness in the left side. Has taken a little more food,
but almost every kind of food, except com~e mixed with
milk and sugar, lies hea\·y at the stomach, and gives her
an uneasy sensation in the breast. The pulse from 9ti
to 108. Alvus modice ~oh·itur.
l\Iarch 25.-Conthmes much the same, bnt there is at
times a stoppage of b1·eathing, which makes her as if
were gasp for breath, and it goes off with a sort of half
suppressed cough. Has recovered the usc of the righr
side. Pulse 108. Alvus cohibita.
Itepr. In!us. ~enna u. a.
March 29.-Is not quite so well to-day, The connll-
sh·e motion of the diaphragm ,is aUended ~ith more
iwitching of the arms than usual. ~ could not ~ount the-
puf:se. 'l'hc least pressure upon the.left side produc(•a..
nri effect almost.bordering npon syncope, and, if strong-
, '
er, com·ulsion. She complains of pain in the right·sid(l,
Alrus soldtttr.
Appl. Empl. Ung. Hyd. lateri
d.:xtro, super lintcum carptum delitum.
:March 31.- :Uir. Wingfield, one of the surgeons of the
Infirmary at Oxford, accompanied me to Yisit Miss
l\l'Avoy. He examined the eyes, but did not think
there was any contraction or dilatation of the pupils,
whe~ :iuddenly exposed to the light.· ·Puh;e 108,
C It
33
She finished a purse, and some little bagatelles ofsilk,
three or four days back. Has not been employed in
this ~-ay since.
She could not distinguish the colour of the different
silk:!, but adopted a plan by which she might remember
which was the particular colour wanted. She bent
pieces of card into different shapes, and her mother gave
them to her one after the other, as the silk was wound
upon each, until she recollected the colour of the silk
each card contained. Whilst she was netting the purse·,
she became perfectly familiar with each colour by feeling
the particular shape of the card, but to-day she only told
the colour of the silk upon one card out of three or
four. She fingered the cards in a similar manner to that
~·hich I observed before, when she succeeded in telling
colours.
April lst.-The affection of the diaphragm returned
with more violence, and she was seized last night with
convulsions, in consequence of the alarm occasioned by
the illness of her little brother, a boy of nine years of
age.
He had been confined for some time with psoas abscess
which had discharged itself below the groin at different
times. The little boy, wishing to be brought down stairs,
was indulged in his wish, and was placed upon one end
of the sofa, where Miss M'Avoy sat. Yesterday when
Mr. Wingfield and I visited her, he !'eemed cheerful and
· easy, but it seems he was seizej, about ten o'clock at
night, with convulsions, which continued utatil one
o'clock in the morning, when a sense of s•Jtfocation
' came on and fluid gushed up, and was discharged
through the mouth and nostrils. Mr. Thomas iaw him
34
in this situation ; he informs me the matter tli~charged
was of a purulent grnmous nature, and he thinks, in
quantity, it must hm;e exceeded three pint~<. On the
following day I saw this poor )ittle boy, he appeared
insensible to e:xternal o~jects; his right side was para-
lytic, but his pulse was moderate in frequency and In
fulness. He afterwards appeared ideotic, but he is now
very considerably reco\-ered, sensible, able to walk with
assistance, but still unable to speak.*
April 4th.-These convuh;ions h::we continued very
frequent e\·er since, but are not of so violent 1\ nature
as those which occurred in November last. Their dura-
tion ,-aries from five to fifteen minutes; but during the
interval she is free from them, the convulsive motion
of the diaphragm rehuns with the conntb;i\•e hvitchings
·1u; before. The pulse cannot be counted with any cer-
tainty, but as far as I can judge from a few pulsations,
I think itwould not exceed 108 in the minute. Vester· .
day evening, iri endeavouring to get to the night-chair,
placed at the side of the sofa, she fell upon the floor ·
and hurt herself. Alvus modice levator.
April IOth.-Continues much the same. The left
band and arm are swelled, and she complains of pain
f'l'om the shoulder downwards. Sorbuit liberius Infus:.
Senn::e, quod nauseam et vomitum produxit. Aln1"
libere solvitnr.'
April 14th.-Her :~ppetite begins to fail again, the
pulse cannot be counted in consequence of the twitch·
ings. Lingua magis ft:eda. Alvus obstipata.
April 18tb.-Complains of pain in the br<'ast, cro:<s-
ing from under one clavicle to the other. Tukes little
or no food. Alvns constrict:~.
llepr. Pi!. CatharticL
• IIc is ~ince dead.
'U vC
36
April 22d.-Alvus tamen obstipatnr.
llepr. P!L IIyd. c. j:Uap. sex. h. •· Si sit oocaslo
llepr. infus. senna: c:ras mane.
April 23d.-Yesterday morning about five o'clock she
lost her speech, but is occasionally sensible, and
expresses herself by signs, when spoken to. The pills
and lnfus. Sennre had not been given in sufficient quan-
tity to answer any good purpose, from the difficulty of
swallowing, and the frequency of the convulsions. The
catching in the breathing was more troublesome, and
she could not make a full inspiration. She appeared to
be gasping for breath. The pain under the left cavicle
is ,·ery severe.. The slightest pressure upon the tumour
in the side produced convulsions. Is more exhausted
than before. 1\lr. Thomas attempted to bleed her in
the moruing, but the convulsive twitchings were sci
se\·ere he had much difficulty in opening a vein. H~
got a little blood, which had a slightly huffy coat. Fiat
V. S. et detr.. sang. 3 vi.
About five ounces of blood were obtained, which was
of a !Jright vermilion colour, w1th a fair proportion of
serum. 'When it \vas flowing ont of the orifice, Mr.
Thomas observed it to be almostof a black colour. Nine
. o'clock, p. m. She was relieved by the bleeding, but
the ga\\lpiug for breath still continues. The pulsation is
!!O slight as scarcely to bH felt in the wrist, tbe carotid
or the temporal arterie:o:. Complains of a sense of great
heat internally, and of pain ateach.side of the head, and
under the clavicles, which she described, upon being
asked if she felt any particular pain, by placing her
hands on each side of her bead, and upon the upper
part of the breast. Appl. Emp. Lyttre amp. sterno
sureriori.
0/
36
April 24th.-The blister has not risen. Her counte-
nance looks worse ; the lips are pallid; there is a blue
appearance around the mouth and eyes, and the latter ·
t<eem more sunk in the head. Mr. Hughes observed she
felt betwier to lift up during thii illness than before.
The face and body have rather a leucopblegmatic appea-
rance, and the extremities pit on pr~ssure in the evening.
For the last ten days has taken ,-ery little food. The
thermometer stood in the room at 70 degrees, the. heat
of the right hand was 100, of the left 105, between the
feet 105, under the tongue 105, near the left clavicle
108, and in the left canthus of the left eye 98 degrees.
The convulsions continue about five minutes, and the
intervals of sensibility are nearly of the same duration.
She was this evening very much troubled with hiccough,
and Mrs. Hughes says her features were more disturbed
last night during the convulsions than usual, and large
pits were left in different parts of the face, like the marks
made by confluent small pox, which after a little time
disappeared. Ah·us vald~ constricta.
Rcpr. Mist. Cathar(.
April 25tb.-The pulse is very variable, and cannot
be counted. The swelliug of the ~:'ide extends nearly to
the opposite ribs, but is not so ele\·ated in any particular
part AS it WIU. Appears to suffer great uneasiness; she
cannotswallow any bread or solid food; a tea8poonful of
liquid can only be taken at a time, and that will hardly
pa~s down. She cannot thrust the tongue out of the
mouth without bringing on the convuhdve action of the
diaphragm. The heat of the thermometer in the mouth,
neck, and hands, was 92 degrees. .The mercurhll plaster
""·as omitted, as the gums are slightly affected.
Dr. Drakt' and Dr. Langston, from America, atte_ndedt
Umv C D1
87
me in my visit to-day. From the reports circulated in
the New York papers, and extracts from Messrs. Sandars
and others, Dr. Drake supposed the whole affair res-
pecting Miss 1\'l'Avoy, an imposition. Dr. Drake and
Dr. Langston, although they had no opportunity ofprov-
ing her powers, I have reason to think, went away with
an impression very different from that expre:5sed to me
before they saw her.
April 26tb.-ls less sensible to-day. The pulse in the
\vrist ito rarely to be felt; the convulsions are more fre-
quent than before ; and the intervals, when the aff~ctioo
of the Diaphragm comes on, are shorter. -Sordescent
\·aide lingua, os, et deotes.
April 27th.-Ccmtinues much the same, but weaker;
although, now and then, she answers a f!Uestion by sign,
is generally ur.able to do so.
April28th.-Is not \1\'0rse, and has swallowed about
half a teacupful of black currant tea, and a little
sugar and water since last night. The Pulse ,·aried from
120 to 1:52: I counted it at two d:fferent times in the wlist,
and in the left carotid artery; for five seconds only in
the forrr:er, the Pul:5e beat Rt the rate of 120 pul~ations in
the minute, in the latter at 182. Per aliquot dies non ha-
buit ald dejectionem.
R Hydr. sublnur. gr. x. Cap. 6tatim e conscrvo quolibet,
April ~9tb.-She had two conl'ul.sions during my visit,
each of about fifteen minutes duration. The interval
between them was four minutes. I could not count the
1mlse. There was a peculiarly quick motion of the
upper eyelids from above downwards, and the eyes roll-
ed to and fro. Th.e thermometer in the hand was 102;
35
near the clavicle 104, and Q~i\t'een the feet 98 degrees.
She is occasionally seized with spasms affecting the upper
part of the left breast. I sat by her for half an hour,
until .Mr. Hughes spoke to me. She did not seem to be
aware I was in the room ; indeed she scarcely attempted
to open her eyes. Was insensible when I entered the
room. Non respondit hydr. submur.
1\Iay 2d.-The convulsions continue. Her appetite is
improved ; complains of the pain between the left cla-
viele, and the sternum being very violent ; is much
thinner, but her countenan_
ce is more healthy. Al\"us
solvitur, et urina co]oris fusci redditur libere.
May 5tb.-Complains of a shooting pain, from the up-
per part ofthe breast, extending along each jaw, through
the temples, to the crown of the head. She is frequently
seized with sp~ms. When these come on, the lefthand is
pressed strongly upon the left clavicle, and the right
band upon the right side of the head. The twitchings
are rather more Yiolent: has taken little food to-day.
Alnts soluta; urina benigile elicitur.
May lOth.-The convulsions come on about every half
hour ; the pain continues violent near the clavicle, and
in the left side; upon the whole, however, she appears
more cheerful. Has lately learnt in a very short time to
converse with the fingers, by which means she can ex-
plain herself better than by signs to those who under-
stand this mode of expression. Pulse 180. Lingua pura,
et os, et giogin~.
l\lay 18th.-! was called out of town on the IIth, and
did not see Mil!s l\l'Avoy until this morning. It appears
the convulsions left her on the 13th: the puin under the
Umv Caltf D. lltz
39
clavicle and sternum.is considerably relieyed, but she
still feels a sense of weight. The convul.sin~ motions af
the Diaphragm and catching in the breathing, as well as
the twitching of the muscles, are much better. Com·
plains of pain in the lower part of the abdomen : the
legs and feet llWcll much at night, and the right hand is
larger than the left. The tumour in the left side in-
creases and is acutely sensible. She feels an almost con·
stant throbbing in it, and a pain extending along the
muscles of the neck, and through the head, in different
directions. Since Monday la:;:t, she has been removed to
Hn arm-chair in the day-time, bnt can neither walk nor
~tand. On Thursday last, she reco,•ered her speech,
hut complains· of. roue~ pain in speaking; particularly if
she speak loutler than a whisper. There was a slight,
but irregular contraction in the pulse. Mrs. Hughe!i
obsen·ed her to be ,-ery low spirited, but she was able to
sew. Twice, however, she was obliged to rip up a frock,
having sewed the wrongside outwards. She cannot namo
a colour. Pulse ,·arying Juriug my visit, from 92 to 120.
Alnts liqn~tur. Urina modice redditur coloris naturalis.
June 3rd.-Since the last report, the symptons have
continued much the same. The pulse varied from 108
to 120. To-day she complains of the convulsive motion
of the Diaphragm being 'more troublesome, ancl this ef·
feet is generally brought on when the side is examined.
The swelling increases according to her feelings ;
this increase has not been very perceptible to me for
some time, but I have rather thought it stationary. It
• extends more towanls the back and loins. The feet and
legs are more swelled in the evening, but in the morn·
ing this swelling is considerable.
J nne 12th.- The anasarcou~ s":ellin~ of thP. feet and
40
legs, and of the hands and arms is much increased. The
former are tense, have a shining inflamed appearance.
and there is a general sense of fulness over the whole
body, aud of oppression in breathing. The pain in the'
head, and in the sockets of the eyes is greater, and the
eyelids are tumified and inflamed: when she attempts to
put out her tongue, she cannot protrude it more than a
line or two beyond the teeth, as the com·ul;.;ive affection
comes on instantly, and prevents the further protru~ion.
Pulse 120. Fiat v. s. et Detr. 88ng. e brachio 3 vi. ad 3
viii.
June 13,-She was relie,·ed by the bleeding: the blood
\l·as cupped, but not huffy. The hands and arms are less
swelled, and the tenseness and shining redness of the legs
are diminished considerably. The sense of fulness,
and of oppression in the breathing, is better. I was ac-
companied ,in my vhiit by Dr. Sherwin of Hath.
June 22d.-Has continued much the same for some
days past, but complains now of more pain in the head,
of throbbing and pain in the side, and of oppression in
the chest. . If the swelled legs or feet are pressed upon,
in the slightest degree, she suffers excessh•e pain. Pulse
120, and irregular. Ahus et urina liberre.
Repr. V. S. et- detr. Sang. 3vi. ad J viii.
Six ounces of blood were taken away, which afforded
considerable relief. It had a ,·ery huffy coat.
June 26th.-Complains very much of oppression in
the chest, and the convulsive motion returns '~ery often,
but more slightly than formerly. It exhausts her very
much, and she has apparently no wish to employ her•
self as usual. Pul.se 120. Mr. Thomas being absent
I took about se,·en onnces of blood from the arm
which immediately g1ure relief.
June 27th.-! found her much better than for some
time past. The oppression of the chest and convulsh·e
motio.n are·remm•ed, and the legs and feet are much.
reduced in size. The blood was extremely huffy and
cupped. Pulse from 104 to 120. Nocte ultim4 menses
superveniebant, et nunc in quantitate idonea adsunt.
Ah•us astricta.
Repr. Infus. Senna:, u. a.
J nne 28th.-The oppr~ssion in the breathing has
returned slightly. Pulse 120. She has not taken the
infusion of senna; oil-case strips had been rolled round
the legs some days ago, and with apparently good effect
in reducing the sweJling. Heri vespere disparuernllt
menses.
J.une 30th.-! found her worse to-day. Mr. Thomas
was again engaged, and I took aboutfive ounces ofblood
from the arm, with almost immediate relief. The blood
had a huffy ..appearance. Pulse 120, and irre~nlar.
Alvus constricta.
ltepr. Infus; Scnn~. u. a.
July 2d.-The convulsh·e atl'ection again returned,
and she complains of much pain in the head. She suc-
ceeded in putting out the tongue a line or two further
than before, but the convulsive motion came on, and
forced her to desist from protruding it. Pulse 120 to
144. AIvus Iibert! solvitur.
July 3d.-I took about four ounces of blood f~om
'the left arn,), and she was again relieved from the unplea-
•
F
42
ea·nt symptoms of oppression in hreathin~, and of the
convulsive twitchings. The swelling ·of the legi
decreases every day.
·July 4th.-Continues better. The blood was slightly
huffy;but not cupped. Pulse 108 to 120. She thrust
-out the tongue just over the lip, but the convulsh·e
motion came on, or I think she would ha,·e been able to
have protruded it further. ·
July 7th.-Complains ·of more violent head-ache.
The com·ulsive affection and the oppression in breath-
1ng have·returned. Duri~g 1he last night she had seme
sfeep, but attended with d~eams of so horrid a nature.
. I
that she did not feel refreshed, but on the contrary wea-
kened arid distressed by it. The legs and feet are
tnore anasarcous: Mr. Thomas ·s~w her 'yesterday, and
he says the pulse was as 10\v as 70, irregular, and inter-
mitting. He bled her to-day, and obtained about six
·ounce~ of 'blo-od. ·she nearly fainted before her arm
was' tied up. 1 The com-ulsive motion ceased: .Pulse
t ' ~ . •
from 108 to 120, feeble and irregular before, but, after
'the bleeding, •more regnlar, soft, and at the same time
fuller, and in frequency 120. Ah·us suppressa.
.Repr. Infus. Sennre, u. a.
July 8th.-Tbe ~lood taken yesterday was not butl'y,
but slightly cupped in the second cnp. She is better·;
the c;onvulsive affection ~nd the oppression in ·the breath-
ing did not occur, but when she attempted to protrude
the tongue. The right eyf} is slightly suffused with
blood, and the eyelids are inflamed and tumified. I threw
.the solar 8pectra strongly and repeatedly upon the ·ball
;Of each eye without making her blink. Complains of
b
43
heat and irrita1ion of the eyelids. Pulse 1!0. Ah:n~
et urina naturales.
r
July 9th.-Hora secunda . matutina .superveniebant
''omitus et diarrhrea, bora octava post cessaptes.
Srepe singultiens debilitatur yalde. Mate~ies ejecta, de
pomis terrre, constitit, et fragis, de quibus, acrl appetitu,
edit. Fluidum coloris reruginosi dein vomitu reddidit.
There is no diminution in the tumour, and ibe pain
is not relieved. Complains of frequent shiverings dur-
ing the day. The pulse is very irregular, varying from
1:10 to 160 pulsations in the minute. Employs herself,
when (lble, in ~ewing and making pape'r crosses, but
cannot distinguish a single colour. Mrs. Hughes, at JUY
request, appl_ied the solution of Belladonna to the eye~
lids, as sbe had.seen it done by Mr. Brandreth, at nine
o'dock, but at half-past one o'clock it had no effect in di-
lating the pupiL I applied it again over the upper eye-
lids and eyebrows, but it produced no effect during my -
stay. I obsenred a very frequent motion of the eyelids
and eyebro\vs, and the ball of the eye moved to and fro
~;everal times very quickly, which she attributed to the
noise occasioned by two carts passing by,
J nly lOth.-Is very unwell, and complains of increased
weakness, inclination to faint, and pain in the head,
with numbness over the temples and lower orbit of the
eye. The bow~ls are relaxed. On enquiring from 1\ln.
Hughc!', respecting the effect of the Belladonna,. she
thought the pupils did appear rather more enlarged than
in the morniug when I was there, but to-day there is no
greater appearance of dilatation than usual, J?Or does
the pupil contract upon exposure to sudden light in the
44
least degree. I recom111ended Mrs. Hughes to gh·e l\fiss
M'Avoya few drops ohpirit. Lavand. comp. 'Withspirit,
Ammon. comp:' in a little water, occasionally to relieve
the iainti~hness. Pulse ,·arying from 144 to 168, feeble
nud irregular.
July Iltb.-Is wor.o:e, and complains of the pain and
pulsation in the left side. The pulse is not so irregular
or feeble as yesterday, but 140 in the minute. The diffi-
culty of respiration is increased with occasional attacks
of the t'onvulsive motion of the Diaphragm. Speaking
seemed to bring on th() convulsive motion more fre-
quently. Fresh strips of oil-case were applied to the
legs. Alvus liquatur.
July 12th.-The symptoms are worse. The pulsa
from 132 to 140, and more feeble than yester~ay. Mr.
Thomas took about 1h·e ounces of blood from the right
arm. The difficult respiration was immediately relie\··
·ed; and the convulsive motion cPased. The pnl,;e after
bleeding fell to 108. Her appetite is ,-ery indifferent.
The legs and feet are less swelled.
July l3th.-The blood in thP. first cup had a very
thick and firm buff upon it. It was cupped, and the
brim of the cup of blood was of the bl'ightest vermilion
colour; the rest of the crassamentum was of good con-
l!istence, and the blood was of a dark . red colour, bor-
dering upon black. In the second cup the bully coat
was somewhat less thick, but firm, and the blood \Vas
ef a pale variegated pink and dead white colour. _ The
ierum was of a muddy whlti:sh colour. During the
afternoon of yesterday she continued much better, but
to-day the difficult respiration returned with a slight
convulsive affection. I examined her side ; it appeared
u c
I!!Omewhat more enlarged than when I saw it last. Th9>
fatigue produced, by undressing herself, so as to allow
an examination of the tumom·, always, hurries her very
much, and the very !'light touch I gave the tumour, in
its most raised part, produced faintishne.ss, which induc-
ed me to defer another bleeding nntil the afternoon.
The pulse was very irregular, \'arying frem i.22 to 144
in the minute. Complains of cold shiverings attacking
her at different times in the day.
July l4th.-~Ir. Nairn, in the absence of l\'lr. Thomas,
bled Miss M'A,·oy yesterday evening. The blood was
huffy in the first cup, slightly so in the second, and
cupped with a vermilion colour in the brim of the
cupped.blood, as in the last bleeding. About ~alf~way
down the sides, and all round this cup of blood to the
same depth, the colour varied from a bright purple
colour to a pale pink, when it assumed the deep red
colour bordering upon black, with a firm consistence,
and with serum of the appearance of muddy whey.
1\Ir. NJtirn mentioned, before I had seen the blood, there
was a pigment of a greun colour at the bottom of the
cup: I perceived i~ also, but; upon separating the serum
from the crassamentum, this colour disappeare~, proba·
bly by its union with the serum, as it was poured off into
another cup ; or could the appearance or sudden disap-
pearance of this greenish colour be accounted for by
any ueceptio visus.? or did it really exist as a component
part of the mass? It certainly had not appeared before
in any of the cups into which blood had been drawn.
' The bleeding again relieved the unpleasa~t symptoms of
difficult respiration and convulsive affection. The swel-
ling of, the legs had \·ery much subsided. Pulse 122.
Mr. Nairn counted them before at 146. She could not
protrude the tongue without bringing on the convulsive
u c
46
motion, which arrest~d its further protrusion. She has
lately co·mplained of a noise like the beating of a drum,
when she leans her head upon the rightside. It appears
to be at the distance of four or five inches. If she leans
her head on the left, a faintish sensation comes over her.
If her head falls down in the arm-chair, she cannot raise
herself withoUt assistance. ·Alvus suppressa.
July l6th.-Js very poorly this morning. The diffi-
culty of breathing came on yesterday, and is >ery trou-
blesome. Pulse 144; variable and low. l\lr. Thomas
not being in the way, I requested Mr. Dale, who was
present, to take away some blood; about_five ounces
were abstracted from the right arm, \Vhen she became
faint, but was immediately relieved from the urgency ~f
the- other symptoms. The pulse became fuller, more'
distinct, and 120 in the minute.
July 17th.-The blo~d was Yery huffy~ and cupped in
botn cups. There was no vermilion colour upon tbe
brim of the cupped blood, as noticed before, but the
green pigment was visible at the bottom of the teacup.
Upon pouring out the serum, this colour disappeared.
She appears low· to-day. The legs ~re less swelled, but
there is generally a leucophlegmatic appearance about
the face and body; she takes little or ~o food. Pulse
120. Alvus iterum liquatur.
July 19th.-Appears much better. The com•ulsive
twitching only occurred once during my visit, in conse-
quence of an attempt to shew me her tongue. Pulse
from 108 to 120. The right leg discharged a consider-
able quantity of serous fluid, and they were both dimi-
nished in size. Heri menses iterum snperveniebant, et
hodie in quantitate idonea adsuut. Alvus soluta; urin,a
modice reddita.
nt f
July 20th.-The oppression in the breathing, and the
convulsive twitchings returned in a slight degree.
Pulse from 108 to 120. Ultima nocte disparnerunt
menses.
·Repr. V. s.
July 2lst.-Seven ounees of blood were taken away.
The blood was huffy and cupped in the first but not in
the second cup, and the loss of it evidently relieved her.
The green pigment was 'not observed in either of the
cups.
July 22d.-The former symptoms have again returned,
and she complains of.general irritation and uneasines~.
The Pulse varies from 108 to 120. Her appetite is \'ery
bad, taking no solid, nod scarcely any fluid food. Straw-
berries have been her principal diet for some time, and
she now occasionally takes 'a few ripe gooseberries. ·I
proposed that Mr. Thomas should bleed her in the after-
twon, but as she expressed a wish to have it done imme-
diately, I passed a fillet round the arm in the usual man-
ner, and tied it, when i'he gave astart, as if it pained her.
Upon asking her. if th~ start was occasioned by the tight-
ness of the Ug·ature, she !'aid it was not. I proposed,
howe,•er to loosen it, towhich she oqjected with a laugh.
Her head then fell suddenly forwflrd on my breast, and
she was evidently insensible. After laying her head
gently upon the chair, I loosened the fillet, and a violent
hysteric attack succeeded, followed by convulsion, from
which she recovere1l, but she lost the power of speech.
The oppr~ssion and catching in the breathing, and the
convulsive motion recurred with more violence; aud as
she expres~ed, by sign, a wish to b'e pled, I again tied 11p
the right arm, but was foiled in my attempt of bleeding
her, by the numerous cicatrices which were not perfectly
u lit ft
48
healed. After a second effort, I succeeded in obtaining
about two aunces of blQod, by a very confined stream.
The blood, after standing some time, did not exhibit any
huffy coat, but a larger proportion of serum than usual.
The right side became paralytic. I visited Miss M'Avoy
in the e\•ening; she was sensible, but violently agitated,
by repeated efforts to vomit, but nothing was expelled
from the mouth but saliva of a frothy nature. Now and
then a very offensive smell issued from the mouth. She
grew every moment worse. The inspiration~J formerly
were seldom, if ever completed, when the oppression
or catching in the breathing came on. Now they are
deeply made, loud and sonorous as the expirations; to be
compared only to that breathing which sometimes indi-
cates the approach of death. The suspension of breath-
ing occasionally intervened, succeeded by strong ef-
forts to recO\'er her breath, which brought into violent
action, the muscles of the throat, chest, diaphragm, and
abdomen. The pulse could only be counted for a \"ery
short period before it flagged, and it varied in frequency,
. from 12 to 18 pulsations in fi,·e seconds of time; indeed
ihe appeared so much exhausted that any one would ha\·e
supposed her in the agony of death. She was 80me
time, however, sensible, and I thought it a proper op-
portunity to ask her if she had the least glimmering of
sight; she shook her head as a mark of dissent. My
own ~opinion of her blindness has been confirmed by
repeated experiments, and I asked the question more for
the satisfaction of the sceptical upon this point, than of
. my own, as it might be supposed at such a period, she
would not deceive. The only hope I had of her reco-
very, arose from the probability of the tumour having
hurst and discharged itself hy one of the·usnal outlet:;.
Ahn' modice solnta.
t Ca
49
July 23d.-Labours under very oppressiveo breathing.
The inclination to vomit is gone oft"; appears almost
constantly convulsed and insensible. Pulse from 120
to 144, very irregular, but fuller than one would expect
under the circumstances of the case. The skin has a
clammy moisture upon it.' Alvus astricta.
July 24th.-:-Mr. Thomas was called up last night. All
the symptoms were increased in violence, so that be bad
httle hope ofher surdving the night. Sheappears weaker,
but the breathing is not so oppressive and laborious as
yesterday. Continues very much convulsed. The pulse
can be felt, but not counted. Urina naturalis semilibram
redidit hodie.
I ,·isitcd her again in the evening. There was little al-
teration in the symptoms. She swallowed a tea-spoon.. '
ful of fluid, with great difficulty. The swelling of the
leg;;; and feet has entirely ~ubsided~ _1\trs. Hughf's says
she is occasionally sensible, but I did not perceive it dur-
ing my visit. Iterum urinre eandem quantitatem dedit
hac vespere. Lingua scabra, subfla,·a, et nrida, cum ore
adusto.
Dr. Baird of Glasgow, and his brother were present
to-day.
July 25th.-Is rather better, but still the breathing is
laborious and oppressive. She does not appear sensible,
nor can she swallow any fluid. It ran out of the mouth
when given to her. The pulse is very irregular. It ra·
therexceeded 120,but I could 1_1otcount it with certainty.
Dr. Baird of Glasgow, his two brothers, Mr. Dale, and
~r- Thomas were present. The side was examined: the
G
6()
tumour had evidently subsided, but still the slightest preS"·
sure caused violept agitation. Urinre redidit semilibram.
Mrs. Hughes was much offended at my making this
\'ery slight pressure, on account of the pain it gave her
daughter: she (:lven shed tears, but was roused by some
observations tending to find fault with her conduct, in
- speaking of convulsion before her daughter; and of the
general effect of such observations in irritable di~posi·
tions. We had some difficulty in appeasing her, as the
language appeared to convey a reflection that she was
not doing all she could, to combat the disease of her
daughter, or was conniving at imposi1ion. Upon this
point it is hardly to be wondeff~d at, if she should feel
very sore, as the ruisertions which ha,·e been made by
numbers, however false she may know them to be, can-
not be otherwise than unpleasant to her feelings, n10rc
I
particularly as from the observations of Dr Baird, it was
eyident that he suspected imposition.
Six o'clock p. m.-1 found Miss 1\'I'Avoy much better,
about four o'clock she was seized with nausea, and after-
wards with vomiting. The matter thrown up consisted
of a watery fluid, tinged with a pink colour, most proba-
bly from two or three gooseberrier she had taken before
the nausea began, and some bits of apple. It wa:s in the
whole rather more than a pint. She was quite sensible,
but appeared considerably emaciated in her general ap-
pearance. .,_.be eyes were hollow, with a dark rim sur-
ronndi~g the lower orbit. Had the vacant stare of blind-
ness, well marked. \Yas able to take.a little coffee, with
bread and butter: complained of flatulence. Repr.
InCus. Sennre.
July 26th.-The laborious respiration is again return·
Um G flf
51
ed, but in amore moderate degree. Pulse 120 to i44.
In the evening she was' much worse, which I attributed
to her having eaten lamb and green peas, to her dinner.
I desired Mr. Thoma~ 'to give her a desert spoonful of
vio. Ipecac. every ten minutes, until it operated. Alvus
libere solvitur sed nihil purulenti in frecibus apparebat.~
July 27th.-Theemetic operated well, and she threw
up what she had eaten in the day, and some gr!Jel ta~n
after the emetic had been given. There was not the least
appearance of any pu_rulent matter in that which.was
thrnwn up. The laborious breathing coqtinues in a
slight degree. Pulse 120.
July 28th.-ls considerably better iq eyery respect.
Portremn nocte,_uriure uncias tres, puris continentis
aliquantnm, colori~ fl~ris lactis, retiidit. Observata fuit
$anguinis guttula urinam iunatans, brevi, qure, tempore,
disparuit,
She is seized occasionally' ~ith shh·eriJ;Jg, The
swelling and pain extend now more tow~trds the spine,
near the depending points of the shoulder blades, with
frequent throbbing, but she has considerable pain un4er
the short ribs, extending up to the feft cl~vich~·: ;nd
!Shoulder. Pulse 120. · Alvus solut~.
July 2!Hh.-The legii are slightly . !!well~.d. She has
~eco\·ered the use of the right arm, but not of th~ side.
'l'he swelling is evident to the,eye on the left side of the
breast, but is not ncar so painful upon pressure, a~ on
the left side of the upper part of the abdomen. Alvus
dejicitnr, sed dura. Libere redidif urinam pus
~Ucujus momenti continentem.
. Repr. Inru~ s~nnre, \1• a,
f
62
July 30th.-Continues much the same, but is occasion·
nlly seized with Yiolent spasms in the left side, extend~
ing from the false ribs to the breast, as high as the left
clavicle. She has recovered her speech, but cannot
protrude her tongue, without bringing on the spasmodic
affection. Pulse 108. Redidit urinarn iterum liberius
sine pure.*
• Baird, mcdicus ingcniosus Gla!<guae pus deflucre cum urina dubltavit,
co quod parcn 'erat quantitas, et urin..., freccs simulabat superficies. Quum
hanc urinam vidit i!le per dies trcs reddita fuit, et lactis floris colorem, e
frecibus urinre cum pure commistls, perdidit.
Urina eadem, cum sedimento, ad nosocomium nostrum monstrata, opini-
onem huic Boctori• Baird, quidam consort~ mci periti, baud di,;similem~
dcderunt. Exp.orimenta tamen post facta seutentiam meam ratam habue-
runt. Die postero, pra!sentibus mcmet, ~edico-chirurgis prreclaris Nair~
et Thomas, et Grindrod ju,·eni ingenioso, nosoeomii nostri alutnno, phiala
agitata, dispersa fuit per urinam materic~ suprad;cta., et quieta in fundu111
decidit. Vrina etrusa, per aquam agitnta et lavata per tertias vices, subjectum
fuit re•iduum depositum experimcntis sequentibus.
Exp. l. Acidi nitrici pnuxillum in portionem materire atrundcbatur,
etrervescentiam fortem producens ; dcin perlucidus fit liquor, p~llidi coloris,,
fere subfusci, et sublla\·i. Addita aqua, eodem tempore, prreelpitatio nulla,
sed sequcnte die, subalbida: cvenit. ,
Exp. 2. Acidum sulphuricum altcram super partcm infudi, ctrervescentiam
excitans lll!vissimam, colorcm subfuscum et purp11rcum ostendens : aqua.
liquorem alfusa statim prrecipitationem non indicabat; paulo post, mistura.
frigescente, prrecipitatio fit.
Exp. 3. Residuo hujusce p:mlulo, cum aqnre additione, argcnti nitrati pnux-
illum addcbatur; fragminuin prrecipitatio subalbidorum statim scquebatur;
proximo die prrecipitatio pu,rpurascit; liquor percolatus per bibulam cbartant
nauseosus gustabat valde.
Ext. 4. Portio nltcra cum solutione pot:tS~re carlxm:\tis saturata mista fuit;
addita aqua, fragn1inum pr~·cipitntio subalbk!a decidebat: poste~o die obscu-
rior evasit. •
Exp. 5. Cum aqua lll)lmonire purre materia commista evenit nulla prrecipi-
tatio; sed exinde vaporcs ~olatlles magisquam paulo olficerun.t pungentiores. '
Exp. fi. In partem residui alternm sp,iritus vini rectilicatus atrusus se spis-
nvit; sed post bebdonadeJ;!t mws Jluidum et putidum evadebat.
Exp. 7. Oleo olivll! optimoportio commista ultima, non soluta, sed per ole-:.
um in guttulls disper~ fuit~ Ex hisce e:xperimentis pus esse cum urina
dcpo;,tum plane apparcbit, ct ea, qure, dj,·ersis vicibus, post fa~ta ~~u~_t_,.
opinionem candem confi~abant. . •
' .
n C
53
Juty 3lst.-Contianes much the same. Pulse 108
fo 120. Alvus soluta.
August·3d.-Cum viscerum do}ore, nunc urget diarr-
hooa, f<_>rsao, e fructibus oimis injestis, orieos, de quibus,
constat pra!eipuum alimentum suum.
Capt. Tinct. Rhei. 3 ss. statim, et dein, si sitoccasio
Tinct. opii. gtts. xv. ex aqure pauxillo, quarta quaque boraad diarrhceam
sistendam.
A1,1gust 19th.-The convulsive catchiogand oppression
jn the breathing are considerably diminished. The swell-
ing of the left side continues with the most acute sensi-
bility upon the slighte~t pressure. Vexat regram rliarr-
hooa vel obstipatio, plus minus\·e, sexdecem diebusabhinc.
Laudano absorpto obstipatio evenit, et laxantibus op~li
fuit. Si urgebat diarrh~,ea e contrario laudano usa fuit.
Mr Geo.rge Bell, Surgeon, of Edinburgh, attended me
in my visit to-day ; he examined the eyes, and observed
the contraction of t~e pupil to be very considerable, but
the dilatation did not take place so freely. I passed my
hand suddenly acrus.~ the. eyes when she winked, which
was accidental; the finger, pointed suddenly 1ow·ards the
~yes, in di.fferent ways, did no.t ~a~e her blit;tk. Upon
examining the side, she shrank before the finger was ap-
plied, but I had expressed my intention of pressing
gently upou the tumour before its application. The
pressure was extremely slight; the pulse rose at the rate
of from 1~0 to ~44 pul.satioi;ls in the minute. Mr. G.
'Bell ga.,·e me his opinion that size must see.
August 22nd.-Catharticus her! acceptus nil profuit,
sed nausea superv-eniebat usque fere ad vomendum.
Cl;l~t. Vip. I~ec. Coch. mnju~ quaque semihora donee Yorn}tum. excitet.
August 28d.-She is better. Pul!!e 112. I requested
Mr. Thomas to apply the solution of Hyoscyamus over
the eyelids and eyebrows at bed-time. Respomlit bene
enaeticus. Nausea tameu per horas tres niansit, denuo
lactis tepidi snblavata haustu.
August 25th.-Complains of considerable pain iQ the
fore part of the head. Mr. ·Thomas informed me the
Hyoscyamus dilated the pupils only very slightly·, but
he observed the contraction upon exposure to a lighted
candle to be greater than he had ever seen it. Upon
exposing the pupils this morning ~o a lighted candle, the
contractio~ was·hardly perceptible. Pulse 116, Alvus
liquatur.
August 27th.-The Belladonna was applied last night,
and this morning, to the eyelids and eyebrows. The
right pupil was dilated to abo\Te one·third of the whole
Iris. The pupil of. the right eye, when we first examin-
ed it was of an oval form, from above downwards ; after
some time it resumed the more circular form. 'fhe dila,
tation was greater in the right than in the left eye.
Upon exposure to a lighted candle, the pupils contract-
ed, but not to so great a degree as after the application
of the Hyoscyamus. Dolor cum obstipatione visccrum
adest.
R Magnes. sulph. 3 iii.
Repr.dosis b~eece, si sit OCCI!IIioo
secunda quaque bora, donee sit alvus bene soluta,
'september 5th.-The convulsh·e twitching is very
troublesome, and she appears very ill. Dr. Hannay and
his br9ther·in-law Mr. Cockburn, Surgeon, of Edin-
burgh, accompanied me in my ·,-jsit. The side \\·as
examined, and the ctllargem.ent was Y!!ry e\Tide~t. The
Umv Gallf
55
eyes were also examined. Pulse 120. As Mr.Thomas \Yai
engaged, ·.Mr. Cockburn kindly offered his sen·ices to_
bleed her, and about seven ounces of blood were taken
away. It had a more watery appearance ' than usual.
The convulsive twitching was almost immediately reliev-
ed, and the pulse reduced from 108 to 96. Alvus inter-
dum liquatur, dein constringitur.
September 9tb.-Complains of increased pain in the
fore and back part of the head ; of trembling and weak-
ness. The convulsive twitching and oppression in the
breathing are increased in violence. Pulse l08 to 120.
Capt. Tinct. Digital. gus. v ter de die ex aque pauxillo.
September lOth.-The tinc~ure of Foxglove occasion-
ed sickness. The dose was reduced to three drops.
Appears ,·ery unwell, nod her spirits are very low. Alvus
Iibera.
September 13th. The twitchings were relieved by
Mr. Thomas having taken yesterday evening about six
ouri'ces of blood; the blood was not huffy, bnt cupped;
The serum was of a milky whey colour, and in consider-
able proportion to the coagulum.
September 15th.-The twitchings are more frequent.
The foxglove was omitted as it still produced sickness,
and she did not seem to derive any benefit from it. Pulse
very irregular and frequent. _ It beat at one time at the
rate of 168 pulsations in the minute.
September 16th. Six ounces of blood were tar~en
from the ann; it was cupped, but not huffy; it relieved
her very much. Pul~e 120.
September 21st. - In attempting to reach something
56
with her hand, she crossed it o\·erthe'breast, and broug-ht
on the convulsi've spasm, and a sense ·of suffocation,
which were relie,•ed, upon restoring the hand to its pro-
per situation. Complains of pain in the right hypochon-
drium. Mr. Thomas was desired.to bleed Miss M'.·hoy
in the afternoon, but he did not succeed.
September ~3d.-Mr. Thomas obtained eight ounces of
blood of a bright red colour. The blood in the first cup
was slightly huffy and cupped; and in the second it was
only cupped. The coagulum was firm In consistence,
and the serum clearer than usual. The green pigment
was visible ~n the first, but not in the second cup. Nausea
valde urget. Alvus liquatur: urinam reddidit coloris
naturalis, et in quantitate idonea.
September 25th.-Complains of great. pain in the
right side, and the swelling of the left side evidently in-
creases. The more violent symptoms were relieved by
the bleeding. Is troubled with cough. Pulse 120. Alvus
soluta.
September 27th.-Complains of difficulty of breathing,
and of the convulsive twitching, with great pain in both
,;ides. Ah,us dejicitur; urina parca et cnm dolore red-
ditur.
l<'iat. V. S. et detr. Sanguinis e brachio 3 vi. ad j v~i.
September 28.-Eight ounces of blood ~ere taken
away. It was ,·ery much cupped and huffy in the first
cup ; the ,·crmilion coloured border was very beautiful.
The serum bad 11 milky apllearance. The difficulty of
breathing was rclie,·ed, as well as the cough.
Septemher 2!Hh - The convulsive twitching& were
U11tv Calf qt zed b
57
more violent, and Mr. Thomas again took six ounces of
blood, cupped, huffy, and with the '·ermilion coloured
circle, but not so bright as before. The bleeding re-
lieved her, but she appeared very low spirited, and
complained more of the pain and throbbing in the tu-
mour. Pulse 120.
Oct. !st.-Seems very ill. Her counten:mce is chang-
ed materially for the worse. . She has taken little or no
~ood for several days. The convulsive twitchings are
again violent. Pulse 120, and rather feeble. ..c\.lvus
astricta.
Repr. V. s.
October 2d.-Six onnces of blood were obtained, cup-
ped and huffy, having the vermilion coloured circle; the
serum was pellucid, and the green colour at the bottom
of the cup was very perceptible. Complained last night
of violent pain in the back. She was sometimes convuls-
ed in the night, and became insensible this morning: the
respiration is laborious. Pulse 144, variable .in strength
and fulness. . Alvus obstipata. Urina pus continens,
in matul(2 fundum fluitans, reddita fuit modice. Liugua
freda, et os; sordibus oneratre gingivr.e.
October 3d.-Appears for the most part insensible
with convulsive twitchings. Can take only a tea-spoonful
of fluid at a time. Her mother thinks her sensible, as
she makes a sign occasionally, fo·r the mouth to be wet-
ted. P11lse 152, variable in strength. Reddidit urinam
boni coloris sine pure. Non habuit alvi dejectionem.
October 4th.-Is quite sensible, but cannot speak. In
the night was ~eized with aviolent spasm, which conti-
nued for some time, and afterwards she felt a sensation as
' II
ro c
59
if something had burst internally.
more regular and distinct. Urina
Alvus constipatur.
Pulse 1~2 to 144:,
redditur sine ptfre.
ltepr. Infus. Senn«, u. a:
October 5th.-Had not taken the Infus. Sennre. Com-
plains of considerable uneasiness in the chest, and is very
low. Pulse 120, Alvus tamen astricta.
Repr. Pil. Hydr. sub. cum Jalapl. u. a·
October 6th.-She recovered the use of the arm and
side, which have been paralytic for a considerable time.
Nausea usque ad vomitum, superveniebat. Alimentum
per aliquot dies in ventriculum acceptum, male concoctum,
ejicitur; alvus nihilominus solvitur.
October 7th.-She recovered her speech this morning,
and appears much better, but complains of great sore-
ness in the side, and of fulness in that part of the tumour
adjacent to the back. Pulse 108. Reddidit urinre semi-
libram pus tenentis AlYus astricta.
Repr. PU. Hydr. sub. mur. cum Jalap. u a.
Oct. 8th.7 Protruded the tongue a little further than
she has done lately, without producing any material
pain or .spasm. Takes the alkaline medicine with le-
mon juice, ·which now agrees very well. Alvus magii
elicitur Urina redditur cum pure.
Oct. 9th.-Complains of a sense of heat infernally,
and all ovea· her. Cannot bear the heat of the fire.
Has pain and a sense of fnlness in the right sitle, but I
felt no particular induration. Pulse 108.
Oct. 10.-The face and head are swelled. Pulse 10~.
U IV C ftf 01 ott
69
Miss M'Avoy, a day or two ago, described the metal
u~ n a snuff box, correctly, for a lady; and to-day she
said my watch chain was gold as well as my watch.
When the watch was examined before, it was at.tached to
a steel chain. I gave her the top of a lancet case, which
was silver, she said it was black; and the gold chain,
":hen given to her again, was black also. Just at the
moment the silver case was put into her hand, a slight
spasm came on. She was uncovered.
Oct. lith.-The face is more swelled, particutarly
about the jaws. Upon examining the mouth, the gums
were spongy, and a mercurial fcctor was perceptible.
The bolusses must hav~ produced this effect, as she
had lately used mercury in no other way. Pulse 120.
Oct. 12th.-Complains ve'ry much of. pain in the head,
and of being oppressed with heat, both externally and
internally. Pulse 132. Alvus obstipata. Urinam red-
didit sine pure.
Oct. I3th.-Is much the same. Pulse 120. Alvus
sblvitur.
Oct. 14th.-The pain of the head is very ·violent, and
the oppression in the breathing increases; complains of
.throbbing in the tumour, and occasional shivering. The
least noise affects her. Her memory is very deficient;
:;he did not recollect what was said by the persons pre-
sent yesterday. Pulse 112, variable in strength and ful-
ness,
Fiat V. S. et detr. sang. ebrachio 3vi. ad 3viW
Oct. 15th.-l\1.r. Thomas hesitated to bleed her, as th~
pulse was 160, and occaiionally intermitting, but ai. I
U IV C If 0 zed
60
particul'arly expressed a wish ·she might be bled, on ncr-
count of the oppression in her breathing and convu h·6
motion, which at the time were very troublesome,_
he
·took eight ounces of blood, which relieved these very
m1pleasant symptoms, but left her very faint for nearly
an hour. The blood was both cupped and huffy. The
green pigment was observed in the first cup ; the,serum
clear and abundant. Pulse from 108 to 120.
Oct. 20th.-Complains of slight oppression in her
breathing, and of considerable w·eakness, but she ap-
.pears better with re~pect to the more unpleasant symp-
.toms than I had seen her' for a considerable time. ' The
tumo.ur in the left side is enlarged, and is excessively pain-
ful upon the least pressure. Mr. Nairn, who came·in as
we were examining it, not recollecting how much she
suffered, if it were touc-hed, pressed his finger upon the
tumour, and she did not recover its effects during our
stay, and for several hours after. The pulse was fuller
and more wiry than usual. Mr. Thomas was requested
to bleed her in the afternoon. PulsP. 120. Ah·us soluta.
Urioa parca.
My young medical friend, Mr. Thoma~ Currie, one of
the sons of the late lamented Dr. James Currie, attended
me in my visit to-day. His attention to the duties of the
Hospital,(of which he is atpresenta pupil) and his enqui·
ries after useful and scientific information will, I hope,
make him an ornament to the profession for which he is
intended. ' ·
Oct..22nd.-Five ounces of blood were. tl\ken away;
it was huffy, and had the green colour at the bottom of
the cup. Is upon the whole better. Mr. Filkin of North-
wich, a meritorious pupil of the Infirmary, accompanied
me. Pulse 112. Alvus non soluta; urina liberheddita.
Un v "'a/1 gltu
61
Oct. !5th.-Complains of oppression in breathing and
ljlCCasional faintishness. The tumour increaliles. If she
lean forward in the least, she is liable to fall upon the
floor if not attended to. The pain of the head is very
'·iolent. Pulse from 100 .to · 120. About five ounces
of blood were taken away, when she became faint; but
she was relieved by the bleeding. Alvus soluta; urina
Iibera.
Fiat V. s. statim.
Oct. 26th.-The blood was slightly cupped and huffy.
The vermilion circle and green pigment were observed,
but the serum was ofa muddy whey-like appearance.
Oct. 28th.-Miss 1\l'Avoy was removed in a sedan
chair into the country. Her legs and feet were a good
deal swollen. She was agitated at the idea of removal.
The pulse 120, and tolerably full. The eyes were pecu-
liarly bright. She was supported to the chair by her
step father; appeared ,·ery faint, and her mother in-
forms me she continued so, and wnlil apparently un-
conscious of her situation during the period of her be-
ing carried.
Oct. 2Dth.-The effects of being carried in this manner
were very perceptible, in an increase of the unpleasant
symptoms. As she expressed a strong wish to be bled, and
as I thought it the only means ofaffording her relief, I de-
sired Mr. Thomas, or Mr. Tudor, his assistant, to bleed
her. Pulse 120, and full. Urina parca; alvus soluta.
October ~Oth.-The blood drawn was about five oun-
ce;. It was slightly cupped, with .the vermilion circle
upon the edge, but not huffy. The serum was in a triple
or quadruple quantity, to the coagulum. It gave her
U1 vC
62
almost immediate relief. Body open. Pulse 100. Urina
liberius redditur.
November 4th.-The least noise alarms her. At times
she does not answer, when questions are asked; and she
then looks quite wild as if she were afraid of something
injuring her. Since her arrival in the country, she is
more uneasy at night, and frequently in a state of stupor.
Pulse 134-, and irregular. -
Repr. v. S. et Detr. Sang. quant. idonea.
Nov. 5th.-The blood drawn was about five ounces,
but it had only a very slightly huffy coat, having not
flown freely from the orifice; it did not rPlieve her.
I requested Mr. Thomas to take six or seven ounces
more, which relieved the oppression in breathing, &c.
but she felt very w~ak, and could not sew or thread a -
needle. Pulse 160; after the bleeding it fell to 120.
No·vember 6th.-She is much better, but complains of
weakness ; the blood was huffy and slightly cupped.
Pulse 120. Alvus soluta.
November 9th.-Found her very unwell. Complains
of an unpleasant sensation in her head, as if wheels
were turning round ; of much uneasiness in the side and
breast. Pulse 120. Alvus constricta.
R Pulv. Jalap.
Aloes. soc. ar. 3 i. _ ,
Syr. Simp. q. s. ut fiat massa in Pi!. :d. d.i\'idenda. Capt. il. h. •·
Fiat. V. S. et Detr. Sang. J ,.;.
November 12th.-The blood which was taken on the
9th, was' buffy~ Mr. Thomas bled her again yesterday,
to the amount of four ounces, and that blood was very
much cupped and huffy. There ~a generalleucophleg...
iv Caltf- D1g1 I b
63
m11tic appearance about her, and she does not seem so
well as I expected to find her. The catching in breath-
ing is very troublesome. Pulse 144. Alvus obstipata.
Repr. Pil. et Y. ~
November I3th.-Found her better, Mr. Tudor hav-
ing taken about six ounces of blood, which was cupped
and huffy_ ·
November l5th.-Mr. Thomas bled her in conse-
quence of a return of the catching in the breathing.
November 17th.-She was again bled, and the blood
had a cupped and buify 'appearance. --Pulse 120.
November 19th.-She was bled this morning, and the
blood was cupped and slightly huffy, about six ounces
were taken away. Pulse ~20.
November 22d.-Mr. Tudor bled her yesterday, and
took about eight ounces of blood which was cupped, but
not huffy. She complained of a violent pain upon the
upper part of thP- sternum, but the bleeding relieved it.
The tumour evidently increases in size. Pulse 120.
November 23d.-Complains again of the catching in
the breathing. Pulse 120. Alvus soluta. Repr. V. S.
November 24th.-Six ounces were obtained. The
blood was cupped and huffy. She was a little relieved1
but appears weak.
NO\·ember 25th.-The- unpleasant breathing IJai.
returned.
Rerr. v..s.
Un f
64
November 26th.-About five ounces of blood were
taken away, which was slightly cupped but not huffy.
It came away drop by drop, and does not appear to have/
relieved her so much as usual. She complain~ of being
swelled all O\~er her ; but the legs are not so much swell-
ed as before. Pulse 120. Alvus astricta et urina parcn.
Repr. Y. S.
Noyember 27th.-l\Ir. Tudor took away fully eight
ounces of blood, which was cupped bnt not buffy She
obtained consider~ble relief from it. The serum has been
of a dark whey colour in m:!ny of the last bleedings, hut
tho crassamentum has been firm. Pulse 120. Alvus
constipata.
Repr. Pi!. Hydr. submur. cum jalap.
November 29ib.-Mr. Tudor bled 1\liss M'Avoyagain
yestP-rday, and tookaway abouteight ounces of blood. She
was seized wilh fainting, and afterwards with com·ulsive
twitchings, and to-day she was insensible. Pulse 120 to
J~O; has taken little food for some days back.
November 30th.-She was seized in the same manner
m'arly as in the last attack, but not in so violent a way.
Pulse not easily to be counted, but tolerably fnll, and if
one could judge from a few pulsations, not exceeding
130 pulsations in the minute. .Mrs. Hughes observed the
suspension of breathing to take place in the night for
about a minute at a time. Takes no food, but sugar
and water, and Mrs. Hughes thinks she is at times
sensible. The eyes roll to and fro, and sometimes
one eye is turned inwards and the other outwards.
The laborious breathing is much less than in the last
attack. AIvus astricta. Urinre semilibra per viginti
quator ultimas horas reddita fuit.
Dec. 3d.-Yesterday she became sensible, but could
not speak. Complains of the oppres!ion and catching
in breathing. Pulie 144. Urina Iibera. Alvus minis
astricta.
Dec. 5th.-Pulse variable, _
aNd frequent. I counted
it at the rate of 156 pulsations in a minute for 15 seconds. ·
She is, however, f!lUCh better; has recovered her speech.
Decembris tertio die, perstante nocte, urinam cum pure
reddidit, & heri iterum. Alvus soluta. Redditur urina
hodie i>ine pure.
Dec. 8th.-She feels an increase of the tumour in the
left side. Suffers considerable uneasiness also from the
right side. The oppression and catching in the breath·
ing comes on frequently. Complains of pain in the head
and in the sockets of the eyes ; takes a little more food,
but has now ·a dislike to coffee. Pulse 120. Aivm1
astricta.
Repr. PiL Cathartic. u. a.
December lOth.-The catching and oppre!sion. in ihe
breathing have returned. Alvus solvitur. Urina natu-
ralis redditur.
December llth.-About six ounces of blood were
taken away this morning. She fainted, but when I
visited her she was much better, and was engaged in ·
sewing. Pulse 120. The blood was cupped and butry. ~
December 13th.-Complained of the catC'hing and
oppression in the J:>reathing, and of the occasional con·
Ylll$i\·e motion of the diaphragm. Her legs and "feet
s\vell very much, and are p~inful to the touch. Pulile
120. Urina magis parca. Repr. V. S.
I
u c
66
December 16th.-·Mr. Tudor got very little blood oa
the 13th, but yesterday he obtained about seven ounces,
which was cupped and slightly huffy. The coagulum
firm, but the serum, in considerable quantity, was of a
milky w?ey colour. Complains of pain .in both arms,
but particularly in ihe right, which is swelled, pellucid
... '. in appearance, and slightly inflamed, but does not pit
.upon pressure. Pulse 120.
· December 18ih.-The oppression in breathing, and
convulsive motion comes on more frequen1ly, and sh~
complains of acute pain about the region of the heart.
Pulse 120.
December 19th.-Mr. Tudor, yesterday, took about
five ounces of blood, which contained a small proportion
of crassamentum to the bulk of the serum. She was how•
ever much rel·
ieved by it, and the swelling and pain in
the right arm subsided very considerably. Pulse 120.
'
December 25th.- Complains occasionally of l1er
former symptoms. Pulse 11~. Alvus obstipata. Urina
parca. Repr. Pil. Cath. -
January 2nd, 1819.-The former symptoms returned
with more violence; and Mr. Tudor took about six
•ounces of blood with yery considerable relief. On the
30th ult. she was bled, and the blood was cupped but
not huffy. The tumour increases in size, and she hni
complained for some time of a swelling externally about
the loins, which I have not yet had an opportunity of
·seeing. Pulse 120. Tal•es little food. Alvus as·
tringitur. Urina redditur liberius.
January 9th.-l examined the swelling above men.·
Untv C ''' y M1 o
67 .
tioned, a few days ago, with Mr. Thoma~t. It was per-
ceptible, but not large ; the fluctuation was evident about
the middle part of the sacrum, but. she could bear mode-
rate pressure upon it. Mr. Brandreth accompanied me
to-day, examined it particularly, and plainly felt the
fluctuation. It extended to both hips. M'r. B. examined
the tumour in the left side, which was fuller than I had
observed it lately, but still extremely acute, and sensible
to thetouch. Is troubled with the catching in the breath :
ing, ·and oppression about the region of the heart. l
recommended her to be bled again if these symptoms did
l\Ot abate in violence,
January I7th.-Mr. Tudor bled her yesterday with
considerable relief. The blood was very slightly huffy,
but not cupped, and the serum ,was in large proportion
to the crassamentum, but it had not fl3wed very freely
from'the arm; she takes little or no food. Appears to
be very low. Pulse IOQ to 108.
January .22d.-'l'he catching and oppression in the
breathing are very troublesome ; has no appetite for
food, taking scarcely any thing but sugar and water. Mr.
Brandreth, Mr. Thomas aril;l I examined the tumour in
the left side, which point~d more, abouttwo inches above
the navel, and an inch and a half to the left of it. Could
not bear any pressure upon it: the fluctuation was
evident between the hips; an enlargement was felt upon
the sacrum, below theleft lumbar vertebrre. She suffered
pain from the pressure. Her cap w~s taken off, and in
this situation the character of blindness was very remar]!:-
able. Pulse from 108 to 120. Alvns' obstipata. Urina
parca.
Repr. lnfus. Sennre, u. a.
January 29th.-Pulse varying from 104 to 120, irregu-
69
lar but moderately free. Finding her very unwell, and
Mr Thomas's arrival very uncertain, I took about six
ounces of blood from the arm, which almost immediately
relieved her. The pulse after the blee<iing fell to 96 ;
ro.se again t~_> lli!O, and was more regular and ste_
ady in
its puhations. The blood whilst flowing was apparently
very thin, and appeared as blood diluted with water; af-
ter ~tanding for some time it was cupped but not huffy.
The green pigment wasobserved at the bottom ofthe cup.
Snpervenit, post infusum sennre acceptum, diarrh~a:
January 3lst.-Mr. Thomas being unwell, Mr. Nairn
visited Miss M'Avoy yesterday, an_
d finding an exacer·
bation of the oppression in the breathing, bled her to
the amount ·of nearly ten ounces. The blood was cup-
ped with the vermilion border. The serum in this blood,
and that of the 29th, had a dirty yellow tinge. Pulse
120. Has taken no other food but sugar and water. Is
at times unconscious of what is going forward.
February }st.-Complains of great debility. The
oppression in the chest, and uifficulty of breathing, are
considerably relieved. H~s no inclination for food.
Diarrh~a tamen manet. Pulse 120.
Capt. Tinct. opii. gtts. v. quarta quaque bora si urgeat diarrhrea.
February 3d.-Complains more of the oppression and
catching in the breathing. Her mother has observed her
to dose during the night, for the last fortnight, but l\Jiss
M'Avoy does not feel herself much refreshed by this kind
of sleep, and doubts if she has been asleep. Pulse 120.
Diarrhrea nqn sistitur.
Repr. Tinct. opii. u. a.
February 5tb.-Continues much the same. Pulse 120.
Umv Calif D cHtued y t~<
69
The legs and feet are veryanasarcous. Diarrhream sistitit
lau<!anum.
February 8th.-Mr. Udney, a Surgeon lately settled
intown, expressed a wish to see Miss lVl'Avoy; he accom·
pauied Mr. Nairn, and met me at two o'cl6ck. Mr.
Udney examined Miss l\l'A,·oy's eyes, and tried thoiJe.
experiments, as tests of her blindness, which he thought
necessary. Hadng mentioned an experiment I had
made before by levelling a pistol suddenly at her head,
without producing the least shock, without the slightest
tremulous motion of the muscles ofthe fac~, and without
her knowledge, apparently, that such an experiment had
been made ; having the pistol in my pocket, these
gentlemen were induced to repeat it, and the result was
similar to that of mine. Mr: Nairn scarified slightly the
lt>g, which was the most swelled. The oppression . and
catching of the breathing became more viol~nt from the
fatigue of loosening her clothes, that we might. examine
the tumour in the side and back; that in the side pointed
much more fully than I had seen it; and that upon the
os sacrum was sensibly felt. The pt;~lse ·when Mr. Nair1,1
came in was 108; upon my arrival it was 120, and imme~:
diately after the examination it was 168.
February lOth.-The oppression and catching in th~
breathing ar~ better. Mr. Tudor bled her yesterday, and
found the symptoms were much increased in .violence.
He took about five ounces of blood, which was cupped
and slightly huffy, with the bright vermilion tinge on the.
edge of the cupped blood. Pulse 120 and feeble. She
takes scarcely any food, but sugar and water Once
or twice lately~ she wished for a little bacon, in which.
request she was indulged, and she has now and then..
taken milk boiled with a little flour, which generally
brought onthe diarrhrea a,ain. .
U v at f D1 ab
70
February 12th.-Is considerably relieved by the ~cari­
fications which discharge very freely. Ha~ taken a little
food for two or three days. l?ulse from 104 to 120.
Alvus solvitur et urina libere redditur.
February 14th.-Complains of weakness and want of
appetite. The legs discharge copiously. Pulse 108.
Alvus elicitor, et urina, cum dolore, pares.
February 16th.-Complains of more oppression about
the chest. Pulse·120. Ah·us valde liquatur.
Re~,>r· V. S.
February 19th.-l\Ir. Tudor took about th·e ounces of
blood on the 16th, which relieved her considerably. It
was cupped and slightly huffy; and the green appearance
was observable at the bottom of the cup. About ten
o'clock this morning, she was seized with shiverings, and
complained as if cold water were trickling down her
back. She seemed shrunk in her general appearanC'e.
The legs discharge very little. Pulse feeble, irregular and
not to be counted. Urina modice redditur, sed cum do-
lore. lterum scarificentnr crura et pedes.
February 20th.-The shiverings continue; she is Yery
weak, and not always sensible. The pulse fuller than
yesterday, but irregular in frequency and strength. It
was counted at different times by me, Mr. Nairn, and
Dr. Hannay, from 144 to 168. The legs were again
scarified. Alvus astricta.
February 22nd.-ls rather better. Pulse 120. The
~arifications did not occasion much discharge, and the
---operation was repeated.
February 24-th,.:_Complains of more pain, particularly
Umv Ca f D fi u }'
71
ftboul the cbesf, e'xtendiog to the stoml!ch. T11e opprcs..
sion and catching in the breathing have returned with
cou~iderable violence. The legs and feet discharged
vcr~ little, and a couple of deeper scarifications were
made by Mr. Bennet, Surgeon. who accompanied me.
I recommended her to t1end for Mr Tudor to bleed her
If the discharge from the legs tlid ~ot relie\·e the oppre&-
sion,&c. Pulse 120.
March 2nd.-Mr. Tudor bled he-r on the 25th, and
obtained about fixe ounces of blood, which was slightly
cupped. The bleeding relie\·ed h~r at the moment, but
before he left her, the oppression returned. A very con-
siderable discharge took place from the legs. She felt
herself better, but yesterday the &hiverings returned,
and frequently came on to-day. Complains of conside-
rable pain in the chest, and of oppres11ion in her breath-
ir:~g. The pulse during my visit, varied from 160 to 180
pulsations in the minute; ·it was irregular in strength,
but was fuller than I could have expected. Complain»
of great thirst. Per aliquot dies alvi dejectionem non
.habuit. Urina redditur modice sed tamen cum dolore.
:Repr. Infus. Senna,u. a. et Mist alkalin. cum succo limonum.
:r-1arch 6th -The discharge from the legs has been
extremely copious, and her breathing is better, but the
convulsive twitchings come on occasionally, and she ill
ne\·er free from head·ache. Pulse 108, appetite rather
better.
March 12th.-Continued better for a few days, but.
to-day there was a return of the shiverings. The tumour
appeared more generally enlarged, extending almost.
from the navel to the ribs on the left iide, and forward
b
"'i!
io the spine of the ileum. Pulse 144, irregular in fnl-
uess and strength. The legs discharged very little.
Repr. scarificationes cruris unius, vel amborum; si sit
occa.sio.
March l4th.-Complains ofviolent pain aud throbbi:1g
in the fore and·back part of the head, and of pain in ihe
sockets of the eyes. The scarifications of the leg:; were
not made; the swelling had increased ; the difficulty and
oppres~ion in the breathing are now worie. Pulse 120.
The scarifications were again advised. Alvus soluta, et
urina reddita modict!.
March l5th.-I visited Miss .M'Avoy, with Dr. M6yler
of Dublin, and found her labouring under considerable
pain and uneasiness. The upper lip was bedewed witb
perspiration, an indication of seri(JUS suffering. She was
partially com·ulsed, and her eyes rolled to and fro. In
the night these symptoms are said to be more violent.-
During our stay, she was occasionally sensible. In the
muscles of the neck there was a considerable contractile
motion.
The Pulse varied from 144 to 204, was at times full, at
other times receding and intermitting. . The calculation
was made by lh·e seconds. The number of pulsations
varied as each person felt it.
The legs were scarified to-day. The tumour was evi-
dent, but did not appear quite so:protrusiveas it did a few
days ago. Nimls liquatur alvus.
1\le.rch lSth.-The convulsions continue at intervals
When ahle to express herself, she complains of dolent
pain and throbbing in tbe back of the bead; is afllicted
Un v ca 1f D1g t1 d
73
with twitchings, and there is occasionally a fitr'?ng actiop
in the mastoid muscles. Pulse 144.
1\lar~h 20th -Visited her with Capt. Farrar. She was ·
convulsed when we entered the room, and continued s.o
for several minutes. Pulse not easily counted. Slight
convulsh•e twitchings, and catching in the breathing,
occur frequently. Abradatur capillitium, et applicetur.
~apiti empt Lyttre- amplum.
March 24th.-The convulsions ceased after profuse
perspiration, but she still compll\ins of pain and beating
in the fore and back part of the head: Pulse 120. Hai.
recovered the use of tlie right arm ; the leg of that side
is still paralysed, but the sn·elling has nearly'disappeared;
the left leg is more'swelled than before. Alvus et urina,
naturales,
March 26th.-Continues much the same, but complains
more of the pain occasioned by the swelling of the left
leg, and it now extends up the thigh. Pulse 120. The
left leg was scarified in a few places,
March'3lst.-The left'leg discharged freely, but tl1e
swelling is ,-ery little decreased. Pulse 120. Ah·us
soluta.
April IIth.-She continued better for several days, and
had not been troubled, except in a very slight degree,
npon any sudden noise or alarm, with the convulsive
twitchings or catching in the breathing. Th'e left leg
~ontinued to discharg·e very freely, uotiJ within ~day or'
two, when the scarifications were· closed up. The con-
. ,
vulsive twitching· and catching in the breathing came OQ.
.. : .
a few times during my visit to-day. l made a few scari-
. .
u r
fications in tbe same leg, as it appeared that this dis-
charge relieved her, although the size of the left leg and
thigh did not diminish much. The right leg is a good
deal more swelled, but is yet paralytic. Pulse 1~0. The
tumour in. the side is much the same. Alvus magis
soluta, et urina libere retldita.
' April 19th.-The scarifications did not prodnce any
very great discharge, and at present ti1ey areall closed up,
f>Xcept one, whicl}, being made rather deep, discharges
a little matter. The convulsive twitching and catch-
ing in the breathing come on very seldom. The
tumour -under the shoulder blade has disappeared.
The legs and thighs are less anasarcous. Recover-
ed the use of the right leg on the 16th inst. The
tumour' is still excessively painful to the touch. Is
engaged in making chimney ornaments. The food she
has taken latterly has been bread and milk, which now
agrees with her. To sugar and water she has taken a
distaste, as well as to coffee. Pulse 120. AI\'US solvitur
et urina redditur libere.
April25th.-Continues much the same. The tumour
'increases, and points more than it did : the most elevated
part is about three inches' and a half from the na,·el in a
«J.:iagonalline, extending t<twards the apex of the heart.
Pulse 120.
May 15th.-There was a little alteration in her com-
plaints, continuingupon the "'hole better, until a day or
two ago, when the convulsive twitching and oppression
in tbe breathing, with shooting pains through the chest,
returned. She seat for Mr. Tudor who bled her this
morning to the amonnt of nine ounces, when she fainted.
T.he blood was hardly butfy, but slightly cup1'ed, tb~
UmvCal
76
coagulum was firm, and of a deep red colour. Pulse
108 to 120. Per aliquot dies urgebat diarrhrea, bodie
cessabat.
May l7tb.-The bleeding relieved her, but not so.
much as on former occasions. . I was induced to bleed
her again, and obtained about six ounces, when she
became faint, but she was relieved, Pulse varying from
96 to 120, before the bleeding, a'nd after the bleeding
it was 112, more steady and full than before. Alvus
nunc dura.
May 27th.-Mr. Tudor bled her again yesterday, to.
the amount of about seven ounces ; the blood W!\S cup·
ped slightly, but not huffy. The convulsive twitching
was more violent as well. as the oppression of the :t>reath-
ing-. Her brother died in the course oflast night. Pulse.
from 120 to 136, and variable. Mr. Peacock,.'lfthe army,
accompanied me. She was afflicted still with the oppres-.
sion of,and catching in,breathing; her legs were ratherless,
swelled. Mr. P. ,served in Egypt, and was conversant
in diseases of the eyes, and the effects res-ulting from,
them, He observed she had the characteristic marks of
blindness. Alvus obstipatur.
June 5th.-Mr. Thomas bled her on the 30th ult, and.
Mr. 'l'udor on the 2nd of June, to the a~ount·of ·~EH'en
ounces each time, without material relief. The blood
was slightly cupped, but not huffy. Pulse 120.
June 7tb.-Continues much the same. Mr. PeacQck
' • . J
again accompanied me, Pulse from lOS to 120. The,
respiration was at the rate of 1~0 in the minute, or "
ten ir;
five seconds, as it could not be exactly calculat~d.
during a whole minute, when the catching took plnce in
the breathing.
Un v
7.6
June 12th.-She continued much the same for several
I •
days. Complained of occa8ional shh·crings. The catch-
ing- in the breathing, and the convulsive motion of the
diaphragm were more troublesome, and she seemed to
suffer.a good deal of pain. The pain ill the head and in
the sockets of the eyes continue. Pulse 120. It became
as frequent as 144 during my visit. Mr. Davidson, Sur-
geon, who was'formerly a pupil of Mr. G. Bell,' of Edin-
burg-h, accompanied me. · He examined the eyes, a~d
agreed with me in the opinion of her blindn~ss. Mrs.
Hughes being very ill, I went up stairs to visit her, and
.Mr. Davidson informed me he made wry faces at her but
she took no notice whatever, nor did her countenance
express any knowledge of ~h~t he had been doing.
..
June 13th,-I found her still worse to-day. I took
seven ounces of blood in a very quick stream, from the
right arm, when she became 'insensible for a few minutes,
but the pulse continued to· beat. She complained of
being faint, but she felt herself better with respect to the
other symptoms. The pulse was 120, and irreg·ular
before, but, after the bleeding, it fell to 100, and became
soft and regular. The blood was not' huffy, and only
slightly cupped. .
June 14tb.-The bl€eding relieved her, but not so
much. Pulse 120. She again takes coffee and a little
cream, b,nt in a very small quantity. Alvus <,Jbstipata
fuit per aliquot dies.
June 15th.-She appearsveryunwell,and from the feel-
i~~ of fluctuation in tpe tumour, she thinks it will
break. From her general appearance I should be afraid
of a return of convulsion. Her pulse variei from 108
to 120. The attempt to protrude the tongue produced
Umv C f D1 t1 d b
77
a more-violent effect than usual, and the pain was !0
great that it caused her to shed tears.
:My friend and school-fellow, Mr. Thomas Creevey,
was walking near Mr. Hughes's house, at the moment I
was entering it. .. I asked him if he wished to see Miss
1\tl'Avoy. Ah! ~aid he, were you not taken in in that
business, I answered in th'e negative, and I said you shall
form'your own judgment upon the case. :Mr. Creevey
saw her, and I shall leave him to give his own opinion
t~ any of his friends whg have not seen her. He had
no idea from the accounts he had heard she was in so
distressing a state of h~alth.
June l8tb.-Mr. Lampett, a medical gentleman, retired
from the profession, accompanied me to-day. She con-
tinued much the same as before. Takes only a very lit-
tle.coffee and milk. ·Pulse 120. Alvus obstipata. ·
Repr. Pi!. Cath.
June 22nd.-Complains ofpain ~nd fulness in the right
side. Pulse ·108. Alvus dejicitur.
Cap. Pil. _
Hydr. dua;; quaque noctc.
June 27.-Is much worse; complains of acute pain in
the left side, and also in the right hypochondrium, ex-
tending to the rig~t breast, which is increased upon rais-
ing her right hand to the head. Thesuspension of breath-
f- ing now and .then, comes on in the day, but ':rery often·
in the night. Pulse from 120 to 140; variable in strength.
Alvus dejecta.
June 30th.-The suspension of breathing came on three
times'during the latter part ofmy visit A feather applied
to the mouth was not acted upon by the breath, and a
m
78
looking-glMs applied to the mouth,r~ceived no stain. &
it went off the convulsive motion seemed more severe.
Dr. Derrick, of Philadelphia, accompanied me. Mr.
Lampett arrived afterwards. They both appeared satis-
fied of her blindness, a~d the form~r gentleman declared
there was the most marked character of it in her appear-
ance. Pulse 96 to 120. Alvus soluta.
July !st.-The suspension ofbreathing comes on every
' '
three or four minutes. The duration from 15 to 35 se•
conds. Mr. Me Donald, surgeon of Lh•erpool, accompa-
panied me.
July3rd.-Is much the same, but complains ofthe pain
through her side and breast, being more violent. Has
eaten a few new potatoes an~ strawberries. Pulse 120.
July 9th.-Mr. G. Bell, of Edinburgh, accompanied
me. The suspension ofbreathing occurs very frequently.
A solution of Extract of Strammonium w~s applied three
times to the eye-lids nod round the eye, but H did not
produce any effect. There was a tremulous motion in
the eye-lids, occasionally, eYen during the suspension of
breathing, but when the eye-lid was raised and allowed
to fall again, it fell as if it were dead. The eyeball ap-
peared fixed at other times. The left side was examined
and appeared to point much more in one place than 1 had
observed it to do before. During the suspension of
breathing, Mr. Bell proposed to feel the side, but her
mother would not consent to it; and all my persuasions
could not prevail upo}l her to permit it to be done.-
Sbe even shed tears upon the occasion, and charged me
with having done lt before, when it produced convul-
&ions, but I told her tt would most probably not give her,
Umv C It Dtq t d Q
pain, if done during the suspension ofbreathing. I even
pressed her more strongly upon the refusal, and told
her it migh.t create suspicion in Mr. Bell of imposition,
if she did not all~w .it to be done; but her answer 'was,
the world bad spoken as ill of her daughter as it was .
possible, and she did oot regard its opinion on thii point.
She was r.atisqed of her blindness. If she died, her
da,ughter, as well p.s ,tlerself, wished ht:r body to be exa- •
amined, and then the opinion of tho~*> who examined her .
might prove if she were \>lind or not, and what was the
nature of the disease in tbe side.. She declared her
daughter should not be abused as when.the needle was _
inserted into the :toe. I was obliged to be silent. Mr• .
:Bell would of course, make his own comments upon thii ·
refusal. It did not appear to me that his opinion at this
time was so decidedly against her as upon his· fo,rme.r
visit. Pulse fr~m 108 to 1~0.
August lst.-There was little or no alteration in the
~ymptoms until thi11 morning. The convulsi"re catching
of the_d.iaphragm, the oppr~ssion in the chest, and fre•
quent suspension in the breathing, with constant and se-
severe head-ache, continue in much the same manner ai
upon the la~t report. The pulse was seldom less than
108, and . did scarcely ever exce.ed 120 pulsstions in a
minute., unleSi! from any sudden noise or alarm, or from
the examination of the side, which, from the fatigue and •
agitation it occasioned in undressing, generally increas- .
ed its velocity. She took llery li~tle food, and wu
opliged to be watched closely, lest it might choke her if •
s~e attempted to swallow it a moment previous to the
suspension coming on. She tried ~gain a cup of coffee ·
and .cream, twice a day, which now agreed with her, and
was he.r chief support, but it Wf!.S obljged to be gh·en 1
~Hb great caution.. When she took._tnore .ilolid food J$
-.
U Ill 0- 1/ z d by o ott
80
was generally thrown off the stomach, in a few days, in
an undigested state. This morning, at half-past ten
o'clock, a m: sb'e was seized with con.vulsious. I found
her about two o'clock in this state. They continued
for two or three minutes, and were alternated with the
suspension ofbreathing. The right leg and hand were
strongly contract~d during the convulsion, but relaxed
upon the ·suspension occurring. Has lost the power ~f
speech. ..
August 2nd.-Mr. Bowling, Surgeon, of Bolton, ani
Mr. .Bedford, of Lh·erpool, accompanied me. She wa~
sensible this morning, for a little whiie, but could not
.
articulate:
. ;
Angust Srd.:-Heri, cun1 dolore muno, librre du.-e urime
limpidrc, eodem·tempore, redditR.' fuerunt. Per aliquot
dies antea alvus astricta, et urina non reddita fuit.
Soon after she was seized with a severe convulsion
and spasm, throwing her bands about with violence, and
it required all her mother's strength to bold them so as to
prevent them from doing injury to herself. She after-
wards became niore sensible, and was evidently relieved.
She \vas able to put her left hand to her neck, which,
for a long time before she h~d not done, from the pnin
and fnlncss under the cla·dcle. ,
August 4th,__:.Prima luce urinam reddidit pure com- '
mixtam. She has ·also recovered her speech, and the
contraction of the leg3 and arm:< as well as the twitch- '
ings, are removed. Her face is rather more emaciated. ·
She cannot protrude the tongue without bringing on the ·
~o~ntlsive affection, Pulse 120.
August 7th.-She.can bear moderate pressur~ on the
leftside, and she saysshe is better now than at any period
for a very long time. Pulse 108. Die augusti quiuto et
$exto urina pure commixta reddita fuit libere.
August I3th.-Mr. Bedford .accompanied me. She
seems much better. Pulse 96. Can protrude the tongue
a little beyo'nd the teeth, but the effort produced a slight •
spalilm. The eyes were examined, and Mr. B. agreed
with me, they had amorbid appearance, and the charac-
ter of blindness. Upon l\liss M'A"·oy being t~sked if
she could bear any thing to be applied to the eye-balls,
she said 8he could bear her finger to pass over them ;
and once when the eyelashes were turned under the
.eye-lid, they did not give her any particular pain, but
what was produced from the soreness. of tl1e eye-lids.
M,r. Bedford proposed to apply. a blunt-pointed probe
ob the cornea, which was done in both eyes, and he
pressed it upon each, but she expressed no pain, but
what arose ft•om the soreness of the eyelids. AIvus soluta.
August l7th.-S~e continues better. Dr. Jardine ac-
companied me. The experiment with the probe w~s
again made. · A slight sensation appeared when the.
probe was placed on the pupil, butshe complained of no
pain in the ball of the eye, bnt of much pain in the eye-
lids when they were touched. Dr. Jardine drew it back-
wards and forwards across each eye, nod in the first
trial he depre~sed the cornea before he was aware
he had tonched it. ' No tears were discharged, nor
did there appear any sign of the' slightest inflamma-
tion in the eyeball. The side and the breast were opened.
'I'he pointed part' of the tumour had disappeared, ana
she could bear moderate pressure npon it, which has not
l1een the case for many months. The swelling which 'i\·as
~·
..
82
ob~efvahle about the upper part of the breast, and under
the clavicle, was so much diminished, as to enable her to
cross the left arm over the breast, as I ha,•e before said.
.Augnst 18th.-Mr. Davidson accompanied me to-day,
and not having a probe we made use of the top part of
the scales of a lancet; the left eyelid was more inflamed
• than tile day before, and whether it was touched with the
· lapQet or not I could not say, butshe complained of pain
and soreness in the eyelid, but not in the ball of the eye.
A tearor two passed over the eyelid, but she bore the pass-
ing to and fro of the top of the lancet, across tbe pupil,
and the cornea. I passed the leaf of a Siberian crab·
apple, cut to a point, over the pupil and cornea, without
producing the least motion in the eye-balls.
We had provided ourselves with some coloured fluids,
but although she named the colour of two of them, she
did not do it with that readiness which characterized her
former efforts. She was uncovered.
August 21st.-I found her ,·ery poorly in consequence
of a cold caught by sitting in the garden. She had also
a slight return of the oppression and catching in the
breathing, and ofthe convulsive moti~n of the diaphragm.
She was advised to take a few drops of Ipecachuana wine
three times a day, and the cough being harsh and dry, I
recommended her to lme some blood. Pulse 120, and
rather full. '
August 23rd.-Mr. Tudor, yesterday morning, took
about seven ounces of blood, when the suspension of
breathing came on. The blood was slightly cupped but
notbuffy. She n=as relieved at the time of bleeding but
the other symptoms returned with considerable violence;
the cough still remained dry and harsh, and caused consi-
derable pain in the breast; I took from her about eight
~
uunces of blood in a full stream, when the breathing
was suspended, and I allowed it to rnn into the basin for
a little longer time. She was faint for some time after·
wards; the pulse varied from 120 to 132, and became
more feeble. She expressed herself as being much
better, although considerably exhausted. AhTus soluta
et urina modice reddita.
Repr. V. S. si sit occasio.
August 25th.-She was much better this morning, hav-
in~ lost again about fh·e ounces of blood. The cough
was relieved a little, but she still complained of pain in
the breast. Pul~ from 108 to 120, and once it was 132,
aHd feeble with clammy hands.
J'.ppr. Emp. Lytt~e sterno.
August 26th..
-She seemed very poorly to-day. Pulse
varying from 144 to 152. Skin moist and clammy. Hands
cold ; complains of shiverings, of a coldness dow_
n the
back, and of ,·iolent pain about the loins. The pain in
the head is much increased, and there is still soreness in.
the chest, and cough, but the blister gave h~r some relief
and discharges freely. AIvi habuit dejectionem; et urina
Jibere reddidit. H mrtoris effusio larga e uterq, coloris
~ubfusci et sanguinei evenit hodie, instar mensium fluxus
morbidarum. Post horas quinque cessnbat.
August 27th.-I was accompanied to-day by Mr. M'Do·
nald, house-apothecary of the Edingburgh In&rmary,
and we met l\lr. Nairn. She was much better than yes·.
terday; the,cough still continues harsh, and she com.-
plains. of the pain in·the breast. Mr·. M•DoBald minntel)'j
examined the eyes ; he o'bsen·ed the i~regularity of th& ~
pupil of theleft eye; aod the oontractio.- allii dilatation.
in both eyes, upon the presentation of a lighted candle.
84
He applied a similar leafto the one I used, the other day,
to the pupil of the eye, without producing any motion in
t~e ball of the eye, or any apparent sensibility. The Pulse
'Y~ frequent, but tolerably firm and full. Mr. Nairn took
from the arm about six ounces of blood, which, upon
standing, had a :;light buff upon it, and was·a good deal
cupped. The s~sp~nsion of breathing came on during
the bleeding. The fillet was loo;ened, but a~ the pulse
remained firm, the blood was allowed to flow for some
time longer; after the su:;pension weni off, she re-
mained incapable of exertion. The arm was tied
up. The pulst> occasionally faltered; her hands were
c,old and clammy; drops of perspiration stood upon
the upper lip; and she remained in that state, of half·
syncope, which I have observed before After walking
in the garden we r~turned, ·and she still lay in this state
with her head upon the pillow, although she faintly an-
swered a question or two I put to her.
August 29th.-She is better, but the cough is very trou-
blesome. Alvus ~ninlts liquatur. Urina parca redditur.
R 1\fuc. G. acacite, 5 vii.
Syr. Tolutan. 3 ss.
Tinct. opii. gtts. lxxx.
Vin. Antimon. 3 ii. l\f.
Capt. Coch. ii. quarta'quaque hora s! urgeat tussis.
August SIst.-The cough is still troublesome, but
rather more loo~e than before ; complains of the mixture
confusing her bead, and of sounds affecting hPr very
much. Complained before of the effect of sounds, but
the mixture seemed to produce the confusion. Had
taken paregoric elixir of the former dispensatories,which
agreed better with her·she tb~ught than the sudorific
anodyne mixture. Diarrhrea per aliquot dies urgebat
valde.
Un C ltf Dt9 u ro
55
September 2nd.-.The cough is not much relieved.
Pulse 144 to 160. Appl. Emp. Lyttre. sterno.
September 4th.-Continues much the same, hut the
cough is rather better. The blister was not applied. The
catching in the breathing, and the convulsive motion of
the diaphragm came on occasionally. Pulse 156. Tamen'
urget diarrhrea tenesmo eoncomitata.
Repr. Pil. Hydr. submur~ cumjalap. u. a.
September 6th.-Found her rather better, but the
cough is still troublesome. Pulse from 120 to 156. · The
skin moist, clammy, and cold She has left off both the
9piate misture, and the paregoric, as they made her
very uncomfortable for some time after taking them.
Has not taken the pills. Diarrhrea cum tenesmo manet.
Applicetur sterno Emplastrum opiatum.
September 14th.-Is affected with catching and oppres-
sion in the breathing, and convulsive motion of the
diaphragm. The cough still continues with a considerable
degree of harshness. Pulse 144. · I bled her to the
amount of six ounces, with considerable relief; but she
was insensible a short time after the bleeding, and lay in
11 quiescentstate for some time after I left her.
September 16th.-In examining .the blood, the green
pigment was again observable in the first cup, but not in
the second. . The blood was cupped, and slightly butfy
in the first, and cupped only in the second c.up. Pulse
·144. Repr. V. S.
September 20th.-The blood taken on the 16th, was
slightly cupped ; the serum of a turbid whey colour;
cough troublesome and harsh; pulse varyi~g 'fro"
m 120
to 144. Alvus nim\s Iibera;
y ' 10
·-
September 23nl.~The cough and catching in the
breathing were more troublesome, with a lancinating
pain in the rightside. Mr. Tu~or took about six ounces
of blo.oi fr(ilr.n tb(} arm yesterday, which Pelieved ller
veq· mu.ch. She complained befor~ this of confusioa in
the head,, and she could not recolle~t what had passed.
~ny suddea llQiie affeeted her. She could not sew or
net for a considerable tiJ;n~ toge4her. Alvus miniiif)
libera. Pulse 144.
October 8tb.-Sinee-tl\e last report sh~ ba!! been much
~tter. The cat~hiQgin the. br.eatWug sehlom eomes on:
e~cept she attempts to proh:ude the tongue. 1\Ir. John
Gl~stdne, Ca~t. OweQ, o{ the navy, and Dr. Nimr»>,.
of Glasgow., ~t me at Mrs. Hughes's. Dr. Nimmo,
s_
ta.ted h&.t: pulse ~o beat~~. tb9. rat.e of 1
.36 pulsatioas in
the minute.
Oclobe.l' ~Sth.-Miss M•A,•oy, within this day or tw·o,
ba~ fett l1erself much worse. The tunwur appears. to
~eaee i,a siae,. and the pain, on pressure, is more con• .
~iderable. Pulse about 120, moderately full. Tbe catch-,
i.Uo&' i~ t~ bre~tbing cgm~ OD "ow and then, and. she
~p~rs depressed ia spirits. 'fhe pain in the head and.
in the sockets of the- eyei is very considerable. She
has complained for a long time, of a numbness on the
l~wer part of the t-.poral bQnt, and neai the lo11rer or-
bit o( tlJ~ eye l)r. Holll),s, of Canada, wbe br1ely gra-
du~ted in Edinburgb, aceompaaied me in my Tisit.
November 9th.-She says that her teeth are deca~hig
and pieces come away without any apparent cause.
WWtin tbese few days she- ha.s cornplaiud more of the
ea~&g in the brealdliag, and. the convulsive nao.tion of.
t.h~ cliephracm. wtt.Ji general Jowne111 of spirits aad
87
want of exertion. She has little inclination to employ
herself in sewing or making ornaments. Pulse 120.
Diei quinti novembris vespere superveniebant menses
coloris subfusci; mane sequente disparuebant. At~us
libere, urina modice redditur.
November 22.-Complaios of pain all over her, of
more violent pain i~ the back and forepart of the head,
and in the sockets of the eyes. The tumour in tbe side
increases, and that in the region of the os sacrum con-
.tinues to fluctuate. Shiverings occasionally come on.
Pulse 108. Alvus magis astricta.
November 30th.-Is very unwell. Has been affiictetl
for several days with cramp at the stomach, which bends
her double, alternating \Vith increase of pain a<'rOSS the
coronal suture, and attended with numbness of the right
arm. Cold perspirations frequently come on. Pulse Vll·
rying from 132 to 168. Alvus constipata. Sorbuit by~r.
submur. c. jalap. portionem usitatam d~plam vel triplam,
non alvum soh}tam sed nauseam et vomitum, inducentis;
vice cujus substituit mater sua infus. sennre more solito.
December 4th.-Dr. Meyler, and Mr. M'Donald,
assistant surgeon of the Dispensary, accomp!lnied me in
my visit to Miss M.-Avoy. We found her very poorly.
The tumour was examined in the side. Itwas perceptibly
elevated, and so acutely sensible to the touch, that the
falling of the clothes upon it made her sbri~k. She at-
tempted to protrude the tongue;and the catching in the
breathing and convulsive motion of the diaphragm came
on but she protruded it fairly over the teeth. The
Pulse varied from 132 to 144, during our visit. The
spasms of the stomach continue, but are more prevalent
in the night-time. Warm water or weak tea affords hctr
I } c
ss
relief. The heat of,the mouth by the thermometer wat
IIO, in the hands 98, and in the room 75 degrees.
December lOth.-Is much the same. Pulse from 120
to 132. Ah·us modice lev-ator.
December 13th.-Complains of the catching in the
breathing, of springing or pricking pains through the
1mrt where the issue had been made. The cramp at the
stomach is more violent, and continues for a longer time.
The discharge from the left leg, where it was scarified,
continues. Pulse from 132 to 144. Alvui obstipata.
Repr. Pil. Hyd. Snbmur. c. Jalap.
December 15th-Is rather worse. Pulse \·arying from.
136 to 160 Mrs. Hughes being seized with a violent
colt.l, was for two days confined to her bed, and her
daughter's complaints might have been increased by her
uneasiness respecting her mother, who was _
in consider·
able danger this morning. Alvus tamen astricta.
Repr. PU. Hyd. submur. c. Jalap. u. a.
December 17th.-Continues !till very poorly. The
Pills again disagreed with her. The oppression and
catching in the breathing are wor!!e, with violent pain
in the bead. The cramp at the stomach frequently as·
sails her, particularly in the night. Pulse from 132 to
134.
:ij, Pi!. Colocynth. Comp. S i.
' IIydr. Submur. 3 ss. 1\[, ct diYide in Pi!. xx.
Capt. iii. nocte maneque pro re n'•ta ad alvum sol•
ve~dam. Si tamcn urge:mt symptomata supradicta, fiat V.S et Dctr. Sanguin.
5 vi. 'ad 5 \'iii.
December 20th.-Continues yery poorly. She lo5t
six ounces of blood, anti it was cupped but not buiTr.
-.d yM
69
Pulse varying from 132 to 160. Alvus obstipatur. Urinoe
fluxus per aliquot dies suppressu~ fuit.
Repr. lnfus. Sennre, u. a.
Repr. V. S. statim.
Dr. Meyler accompanied l\lr. Thomas and me ; and
remained while she was under the operation of bleeding.
The suspension of breathing oame on, but the blood was
allowed to flow until we had obtained about six ounces,
when the pulse fell, and the arm was tied up.
December 21st.-The same gentleman ttgain accom-
panied me. She still continued very ill. The bleeding
was repeated, and n·e left her under symptoms of very
considerable debility. Pulse from 120 to 144.
December 22nd.-The last bleeding very"much reliev-
ed her. The pulse was moderately firm, and vaded
from 120 to 132. Complains still of twisting about the
region of the heart, as if a cord were tied round it, and
occasionally drawn very tight. Snpprimuntur alvus et
.urina. Utatur aqure fervidre vapore, partibus vicinis,
more solito, applicando. Si urgeat cordis constrictio, fiat
venre sectio et detrahantur sanguinis, 3 viii. ad 3 x.
Repr. infus. sennre u. a.
December 23rd.-She was much worse than yester-
day. Had passed the night with violent pain and
oppression about the region of the heartJ with frequent
inspension of lireathing. Pulse 160. Urina et alvUil
parce soh-untur. Fiat statim V. S. About ten ounces
were taken away with a full stream. The snspen:;ion of
breathing came on very frequently, and continued from
30 to 40 seconds each time. The pulse fell to 144. The
~ppression and catching in the breathing were very trou.-
M
90
bJesome before the blei!ding, but appeared considerAbly
relieved after it had taken place.
December 24th.-l\lr. Thomas's assistant, Mr. Tudor,
bled Miss l\'l'Avoy this morning, and she was ag~in re-
lie\·ed by the bleeding; but the oppression and catt!hlng
in the breathing continue troublesome. The blood was'
cupped, but not huffy. The suspension of breath-
ing came on, and he did not obtain more than five
ounces. The pul!"e wa!! 144, hut :tfter the bleeding it
fell to 108. Two hours after the pulse ,·aried from 120
to 132. Alnts obstipata. Stillatim mingit.
December 25th.-'-Is extremely low, but the oppression
ahd catching iu the breathing are better. She feels inca-
pable of any exertion. Complains of a whirling scnsa-
tioh in 'the flee:d, which takes away for the tinm all
'reco!lection; gets DO sleep at night that she is aware
of. - The suspension of breathing comes on occasionally
in the day, but more frequently in the night. Takes no
food but a little C'offee and cream. The pulse 120, soft
and easily compressible. Al\rus constipatur. Urioa gutta-
tim elicitur calida.
Repr. Pil. Cathartic. u. ·a;
January 7th, 1820.-Since the last report she has been
''ery poorly ; has taken more food, ~ut it was rejected
'With .considerable viohmce; and what had been taken
some days before, was thrown up in an undigested state.
Is more troubled with the ca'tching ·and oppression in the
breathing. Is extremely uneasy at ·night, n·ith horrid
sensations, as if she were in the mid8t of wild beasts, Ol'
falling down precipices. Complains much df the pain
in'~he head, ncto~s the temples, at the back of the head,
:~nd in thli sockehi gf thll cya:t. Pnl:o:e HJ, l>Oft anti
Un atlf
91
c'ompre~sible. Ah•us inferdum nin1is libere, et alternis
vicibns sa'pe ob.stipata fuit.. Urina liberius redditur.
January 12th.-Complains of n pain in her side, and
is troubled with a dry, hollow cough. l\Ir. Tudor took
eight ounces of blood from the arm this moming. At
two p. m. she was better, but still suffered pain in mak~
ing a full in.~piration~ Pl.\lse l{4. Alvus mo~ict! solvi-
tu~. urina cum dolore, sed libere, reddltur~
~epr. Y. S. et detr. ~;ang. quant; idone~. _
~annary 13th.-Ten ounces of blood ~ere taken aw:iy
yesterday aftern~on, which was cupped and huffy; the
l!erum of a muddy whey colour. The suspensi-on of
breathing came on, bnt Mr. Tudor still a~Jowed the
blood to flow until :she fainted. For a few hour:s she was
relie,·ed, but to day iinot materially better. • Pulse ~36.
Alvu,s dejicitur.
Repr. V. S. ·
. ) .
January 14th.-Six ounces of blood were only
obtained, which produced no material alteration, yet
she was on the point of fainting. The blood was cupped
and the serum muddy. Pulse 1-1·1, sharp and fulL
,l1epr: V. S. et detr. liang. 3 viii. a~ 3 xii.
Jan. lQth -Six opnces of blood were taken away.
It was cupped and bu1fy in each cup. When I visited her,
she was extremely ill, and her vo~ce could ~nly be heard
as the faintest whisper. Found no relief from this bleed-
ing, and appeared much exhausted. Pulse 160. I wished
her to apply n blister to the side, but she objected to it.
ns she could not bear the least pressure near the tumour.
Itwas applied to the breast. She objected aim. to l_eeches,
les~ they sb!)uld agnin bring on the convulsions or fLlint-o
db
92
ing. Mrs. Hughes observed-she was so ill at times in the
night, with the acute pain produced by the twisting about
the region of the heart, that she thought her daughter
c·ould not survive the night. Her own feelings have been
so oppressh·e as to induce her to believe she cannot for
any long period bear up against them, and she is very
much dispirited.
Jan. 16th.-Does not think herself better ; but it
appears to me she is not so ill as yesterday. The catch-
ing in the breathing is certainly not so frequent ; and
the violence of the pain about the region of the heart is
rather diminished, The blister rose a little. Pulse 144.
Softer and compressible. Alvns comprimitur.
January l8th.-There was little alteration in her com-
plaints, untH the last night, when the pain about the
region of the heart, the cough and difficult breathing
increased so much as to make it necessary to bleed her.
She lost fourteen ounces of blood. The suspension of
breathing came on four times during the bleeding; and
\Vhen I visited her about an hour after, it occurred every
three or four minutes. J.'he blood was in the slightest
degree cupped, and without buff. T}le more violent
symptoms o~ cough were relieved. The pulse when I
fiJ:"st felt it was 14·1, but it very soon after fell to 120 pul-
sations in the minute. Alvus obstipatur. Repr. infus.
l!enn:c, u. a-.
.January 20th.-Is much better, hut complains still of
the pain and twisting about the region of the heart. She
!!peaks of a chilly, creeping sensation over the heart,
and of a !!ymptom, as if a cold ring were placed upon
the point of it, and preceding a di!!position to fainting.
Pulse 132. Infusum sen: sursum et deprsum, opus peregit.
U1 b
93
/
January 22n~.-Theoppressive ~ymptoms have recur-
red. The pulse irregular and receding. When it can
be counted it Varies from 142 to 144.
Cap. vin. Ipee. gtts. :u. ter de die ex aqure pauxillo.
January 23rd.-The suspension of breathing came on
frequently in the day-time, and very often in the night.
Pulse 176, irregular in fulness and in strength. The
vomiting occasioned by the infusion of senna agitated
her very much, swelled and distorted the muscles of the
face and neck, so as to cause an increase of pain in the
bead to so great a degree that she was afraid to take the
lpecachuana wine, lest it might bring on the' sickness
again. Takes very little food of any kind, but has a
fancy for that which is tasty. Attempted to take a
mouthful of beef or of mutton occasionally, which pro-
duced nausea and sometimes vomiting; yeit she took with
impunity a very imall portion of roasted pork, and a
teaspoonful or two of potatoes mashed up with the
gravy, whilst the gravy of either of the other meats dis-
ngreed with her stomach.
January 24tb.-Is still worse. The pulse 160. Mr.
Tudor took twelve ounces of blood' away, which was
cupped but not huffy.
.
Repr. V. s. si sit occasio.
,
January 25th.-Mr. Tudor attempted to bleed Miss
1\'I'Avoy this morning, but did not succeed. She had
been bled so often that the cicatrices were immerous and
hard, so that although the blood spurted out as soon as
the lancet entered, yet no more blood followed, and he
was obliged to give it up. At three o'clock, p.m. I
found her so very ill that I was induced to tie up the
arm and make another attempt. The only point of the
ti.L y ('
94
Media. Basilic vein, tha,t I could .feel distinctly, was ab()\"e
the cicatrices. ~ made a large incision fairly into the
vein, but o~ly a spm;t ~f blQ.o~ followed, as if the vein
below were.closed up by the thickening of its coats.-
1 succeeded at last by making a large opening into th~
vein of the ~eft arm, and the blood rushed out with vio-
lence into my breast apd f1;1ce. Almost immediately the
hre~thing, as I thought, became S"\JSpendeQ,, and I place1l
my thumb QpQn the oxtt\~e. Upon pressing the wri.st I
felt no pulsation. Upon ber recovery, which took place
in about a quarter of a minute, T took my thumb from
the orifice, and it rushed out with great violence, when
she again fainted. A(t~r this recovery, a third attempt
was made, 1\Dtl sy1;1cope foUo.wed. Upon her recovery
the carotid arteries beat \~ith uqusual violence ; the lips
became pallid; under the eyes and round the mouth, the
skin appeared of a pale blue colour; the hands were
oold and clammy, so that I felt myself bound to desist
from allowing tQe blood to flow again. The pulse which
h&d been so frequent as 160 pulsation~ in the tninnte,
fell to 132.. The violent pulsation of the carotid arteri~s
abated; yet, although she appeared languid, it was evi-
dent to me, as well as to her:o:elf, that the small quantity
ofblood, which hardly ~xceeded two ounces, by hadng
been taken ~wl\y so suddenly, had produced the {!111
effect of a larger bleeding.,
January 26th,'7"Continues very feeble, but the more
,·iolent symptoms are rather better. The pulse varies
from 144 to 160 pulsations in the minute, and is irregular
in fulness. Alvus astricta fuit per aliquot dies. Urina
libere redditur.
January 27th.-Appears upon the w~ole better. Pulse
from 144 to 180, soft and ea.5ily compressible. The legs
96
are more anasarcous, and the general appearance of the
face and body is leucophlegmatic. Alvus nimls deji-
eitur.
January ~Oth.-Is very low, but in other respects bet-
tQr. Complains of pain and lightness in the head, ofsick-
llcss at the stomach, but has not rejected the cup of cof-
fee and cream she took at breakfast. Pulse 144 to 160.
Diarrhrea tamen urget.
February 7th.- Continues much the same. Puls11
160.
February 9th.-ls rather worse. The swelling in botll
legs, particularly the right, disappeared rather suddenly,
on Monday, and the abdomen is more tumid. Pulse from
120 to 144, and feeble. Takes very little food. Cutis
Jnollis. Diarrhrea tamen manet.
February 12th.-Has taken cold. The catching in the
breathing, the twisting about the region of the heart, and
the cough are increased. Her mother attributes the cold
Miss M'Avoy has caught, to her hal·ing fainted, and hav-
ing been exposed to the cold air, during the operation
of changing her linen.. It seems she is in the habit of
doing this at night, and it is a very tedious business un-
der the circumstances in which she is placed. The
pulse is fuller, anc.l more firm, from 120 to 144. Diarrhre11.
l:UgQt.
!terr. V. S. et detr. $."\ng. quant. idonea.
February 13th.-Twelve ounces were taken away, the
blood was cupped and buify, exhibiting the green pig-
ment at the bottom of each cup. The symptoms WPre
relieved after the bleeding, but returned t~-day with con-
96
aiderable violence. Complains oftightness, and of a sense
of weight across the chest. Pulse tolerably full, varying
from 120 to 144 pulsations in a minute.
Repr. V. S. u. a.
February 14th.-Ft?-llY fourteen ounces of blood were
obtained, which was slightly huffy and cupped. These-
rum was in a much greater proportion to the crassamen-
tum, and was of a muddy whey-like appearance. She
was relieved by the bleeding, but the violent symptoms
again came on, and the cough was very severe and dis-
tressing. Pulse 144. 1\Jr. Parr, a respectable practitio-
ner in Liverpool accompanied me in my visit.
February l5th.-ls rather bf.'tier, but complains of
thirst and nausea, for which she has taken a pretty strong
lemonade, with temporary benefit. Complains of consi-
derable pain under the left clavicle, and of a sharp pain
striking through the tumour in Hie left side.
l{epr. V. S. u. a.
February 16th.-I do not think her worse, hut she
seems to yield more to her sufferings than usQal. Mr.
Tudlilr attempted to bleed her this morning, but did not
succeed in obtaining any blood of moment. Mr. Thomas,
who accompanied me, also opened two veins without
effect. We observed her skin to be clammy and her
hands cold. He _
informs me when that was the case,
during the former attack, he seldom got any sufficient
quantity of blood; and he was not singular in this re-
spect, as other gentlemen, who attempted to bleed her,
sometimes were foiled in a similar manner. Pulse from
144 to 168, irregular and slig-htly intermitting. Diarr-
b~a tamen ur,et.
97
February l7th.--Continues very low. Cough less
harsh, and the other symptoms appear more moderate.
Pulse 144, soft aQd compressible. Alvus non taman li·
here solvitur.
February l9th.-ls rather better~ Pulse IiO.
February 20th.- Continues _better; but the suspension
of breathing comes on occa!'ionally during the night.
Pulse 136, soft and compressible.
February .2lst.-Is still better. Was engaged in mak-
ing a purse, which she h~d not been able to do for a con.
siderable time. Pulse 120. Alvus astricta.
Febrilary 23d.-Goes on improving; Pulse 120. Mr.
Bradley, Surgeon of this town, having expressed a wish
to see Miss M'Avoy,accompanied me to-dlly. Mr. Brad-
ley was a pupil of the Manchester Infirmary, and had
the opportunity of seeing the vractice of the late Mr.
Gibson, in diseases of the eyes, and also of .Mr. Simmons,
a judicious and experienced Surgeon of that town. He
expressed himself as having no doubt of her blindness.
February 25th.-Js mtich the sam~. Dr. Carson ac-
companied me in my visit. Pulse 144. Alvus tameD
astricta.
February 29th.-Is not so well. Pulse 144. Alvus
fusa.
}'larch 3d.-Coutioues much the same, but is onJy able
to net or sew for a short time together.
:viarch l4th.-Since the iast report she bas be~n much
N
0 'JILl d by
better, but a week ago was seized with more violent pain
' '
at the back and in the front of tbe head, and through the
sockets of tbe eyes, with a throbbing sensation. The
anasarcous swelling ofthe legs in a great measure hassub-
sided, but the left appears to contain a quantity of fluid,
which moves from side to side, \vhen it is pressed upon.
The back part of the leg has a deep indentation and a
blackish slough appears on the surface. She isnot aware
of having pressed the leg against any hard substance.
Mrs. Hughes applied poultices of bread and milk to the
part. Pulse 120. Alvus nimis solvitur.
March 18th.-Is rather better. The size of the left leg
is diminished and there is a ~light discharge of fluid from
it. The blackness has disappeared. Pulse 120, soft and
compressible.
Match 21st.-The poultice of bread and milk has been
changed for one composed of flour, yolk of egg, and of
honey, which occasioned a freer discharge. Complain8
ofa pa1n arid weakness in the back, and ofgreat soreness
through the·whoie length of the left thigh bone. Ap-
pears better 't~ince this discharge has been more free ; and
has made two or three purses within the last ten days.
Hands cold ~nd clammy. l>uls~ 120. Alvus solvitur
et Iiber~ redditur nrina.
March 29th.-Is affected with ~Slight convulsive mo-
tions iii tbe chest arid dinphragm, with occasional cough.
The left leg discharges through a spot of the size of a
crown-piece, at the back of the leg, which resembles the
icthyosis siinpl~x. Pulse120 to 1«. Alvus liberisolVihlf.
Urina mo~lic~ redditur, sed cuili dolore;
April 2d.-li 11omewhat bett~r. Pui1e 10~.
Um Cal D g tt d by
99
April 5th.--:Complains of faiotlshness, and general
weakne~s. In other respects is much the same. Pplie
140.
April 9tb.-The left leg is less in size; and the dis-
charg·e continues. Some days ago, I requested Mrs.
Hughes to apply a bread and milk poultice instead ofth~
honey, flour, and yolk of egg, which, from its colour,
did not allow me to see the nature ofthe fluid discharged
from the leg: The discharge was not so great, Mrs.
Hughes observed, as when the latter poultice was applled,
but there was a sufficient quantity of fluid upon the sur-
face of the bread and milk poultice, to give me an idea
of its nature. It appeared of the consistence and colour
of arrow root gruel, to which a very small quantity of
milk or cream had been added. Pulse 112.
'
April 29th.-Has complained for some days past of
shooting pains through the chest, with very slight catch-
ing in the breathing. Pulse from 116 to 120, moderat~
in !ulness. Alvus tamen liquatur.
May 2d.-Complains of throbbing, which had affected
her for some time past, in the right side. The acute pain
in the left side continues.*' Pule 120. Alvus fusa com-
pescitur.
May llth.-Continues much the same. Dr. Meyler
accompanied me. We examined the abdomen and tha
back. The fluctuation of some fluid was \·ery percep-
tible tn the lower part of the back, as before described,
and an enlargement was observed in both sides. Could
.
• Mr. Bagnold called upon me yesterday, to request permission for his rela·
tive Captain Bagnold ~f the 1\farincs, to &ee Miu l\1'Ayoy, and they both 1net
me at Mr. Huihes's house to-d.~y. '
u Call 1q 1 d y M ro o
100
bear slight pressure on the right, but not on the left
~ide. Pulse 130 befQre, but, afterthe examination, 144.*
May 19th.-Complaius of the pain in the chest, but I
think her upon the whole better. Pulse from 100 to
108, moderate iq fulne.ss and in strength. Movetur
alvus modice
June lsi.-Continues much the same as at the last
report, except that her mouth is slightly affected by a
felv pills she had taken of her own accord1 which were
composed of the su.bmuriate of mercury. Pulse from
108 to 120. Alvus lene astringifur.
June 18th.-Complains rather more of the shooting
pains through the chest. The discharge from the left
leg was considerable until wilhin a day or two ; and the
swelling, she says, on the lower part of her back, was
diminished. Pulse q2~ Ah·us cietur lene. Urina
naturalis.
Fiat. V. s. et detr~ sang. e brachioquant. idonea.,
June 14th.-Mr. Thomas took away about eight ounce~
f!f blood, when she became imensible. It was cupped
but not huffy. The green pigment was obsen,ed in both
cups. The crjlssamentum was firm upon the upper part,
but at the bottom the red particles were fluid, and united
with the serum. which was clear and in moderate quan-
tity, as it was poured into another bason. The shoot-
ing pains were reliflved, but returned again in the even-
• Sometimes during the day, when sqe has not been disturbed by noise of
any kind, she will name a single colour, orread a word ortwo with her fingers;
and she was able a f'ewdays ago toJOin exactly together, two pieces of' printe<l
calico, without 1\lrs.llughes's assistanet". · . '
Umv Caltf Dt ttt yMt ro
101
ing, with slight catching in the breathing. Pulse II!
AIvus astricta.
Cap. Pi1 Aloes c. Jalap ill. bora somni.
June 15th.·-The catching in the breathing comes on fre·
quently, but in a slight degree. Complains ofthe shoot-
ing pains through the chest, of pain in both sides, and
jo the head. Pulse 120. Alvus compressa.
Repr. Pi!. Cathart. u. a. Repr. V. S.
June 16th.~Mr. Thomas took away yesterday, about
seven ounces of blood, when she became insensib!'e. It
was cupped, and in two of the cups the green pigment
was very ,-isible. The catching in the breathing nod the
pains which she felt through the chest are returned. Af-
ter this bleeding, the pulse which before had been at 182,
fell down to 80. The pulse to-day is 120, softand com-
pressible. Alvus astricta. Urina modice sed cum dolore
redditur.*
June 17th.-Complains of a violent stitch in the left
side, under the breast. Pulse 160, and tolerably firm.
Alvus lene solvitur. Repr. V. S.
June 18.-Complains very much of the stitch in the
left side, and of swelling all over her. Pulse from 112
to 120: moderately full, but occasionally interrupted in
• Miss M<Avoy wrote a note this morning to her Executor. She makes no
!;tops. She rules herpaper with a knife, and "Vrites upon the line thus formed.
When she linishe~ the writing of one word, she moves the hand a little for.
ward, by which means the words are sufficiently separated from each other,
It seems before her illness, she could hardly write at all, and although the
writing Is not good, it is yet sufficiently distinguishable to be easily read.
,Mrs. Hughes thinks shehas written abou' as much 8.11 would till a sheet of pa·
per, since her blindness commenced. Previous to her blindness, it is said she
could.scarcely join the letters.
Jmv Ca d } '' osot
102
it~f beat. Mr. Thomas was in the country, which per-
vented him from bleeding her this morning; and as I
found his return uncertain~ i~ tb~ course of the day I
- took about eight ounces of blood away-she became in-
~ensible, bu~ she ~reathep, 1!-nd ttae pulse beat; but she
did not req<!V!'lr d~riog my stay, which was se,·eral mi·
putes jlft~r I bad tied up the arm. A part of the blood
was allowed. to dow after she was insensible, but the
pulse became weaker and 108 in the ~i~u~e.
• • • • ~ J
June 19th.-Is ~etter to day. The catching in the
bt'eathing is diminished ; and the stitch in the side is
very much relieved. Pulse 120, soft and regular. Al-
ws modica.
June 2~d.-The symptoms inC!'easing in violence in-
4!lced Mr. Hughes to send for 1,\fr. Thomas yesterday,
who toolt abo~t eight O!JPC~i of blood, which relie~ed
the pain of the side, &c. Has employed herself in
making chimney ornaments and watch papers. Pulse
120, soft and c~mpressible.
/
June 24th.-ls again much \!Orse, and the pain in the
tide more violent. Pulse 160. Alvus obstipata.
Rep; V, S•
. .,
June 27tb.-Mr. Thomas had be~n so much engaged,
that he could not go out to bleed Miss M'.thoy either
yesterday or the day before ; and as there was some
doubt if he would be in town t~is morning, I thought it
improper to defer it for another day, as she was now suf-
fering acute pain. Her general appearance was leuco-
pblegmatic, attended with a coldclammy skin. The pulse
144, rather low than full. Having madP. a large open-
ing into the medio basilic vein, the ~food spurtedout witll
Umv Calif Dt ttz by
103
11uch violencE!, and I obtairied eight ounces in a very
8hort space of time, when she oecame insensible. Th~
blood still continued to 11ow, and five ounces were ta·
ken away. I took off the ligature, and the blooa flowed
nearly in as full a stream as before. I obtained about
three ounces more, when the pulse began to flag, and I
tied up the arm. The pulse was reduced to I~ pulsa~
tions in the minute;
June 29th.-Is better, but the stitch hi the left slde
comes on occasionally. Within a few days she has com-
plained of a sensation, differing from that of the cold
ring of ·iron she felt before, as if a drop of the coldest
water had fallen upon the spot internal!y, from whence
the stitch arose, ceasing during the time of the stitch,
but the sensation of the cold ring was still felt as before.
Pulse 120. Alvus obstipatur.
Rep. V. S. si sii occasio, Ycsp-ere.
July ist.-Is much worse. Mr. Thomas had not
been able to visit Miss M'AYoy, from his other engage•
rnents ; and the bleeding had been put aff until she
found herselfBO very ill that he was again sent for. She
continued to grow worse, and was so iU ih .thft f!vening
when I visited her, that I thought it proper to bleed
her. Sixteen ounce~ of blood were taken away in a full
atream. She became insensible when about half the
quantity WIUI taken ; and once I obsen·ed the suspension
of breathing to take place for a few seconds. Has been
troubled with cough for three or four day•. Pulse from
120 to 144.'!t' Alvus liquatur.,
It 1\fl.-. Knoir1es, of BOotie, and the Re'Y. J. Fawc~t of Carlisie, met me at
'llal(past, instead ofa quart•r before seven o'clock, p. m. owing to some delay
'in erossing fromone ofthe ferries on theCheshireside, wlrtch they had notcaf•
.Wate.l u_
pOL J:nJwini til~ etr•ut the ble~(liuJ would htwe in producin~ a
Umv Mtc of
104
Jnly 5th.-Mr. Thomas bled her again yesterday to
the amount of seven ounce&, when she fainted. The
pulse had fallen from 144 to 80 after the bleeding, bnt
in a little time it repeatedly varied from Qn~ extreme
to the other. The seyere symptoms having recurred, I
took from the arm six ounces of blood. Pube 144 be·
fore, and varying from 96 to 108 after the bleeding, and
slightly intermi~ting.
July 4th.-Sbe was relieved much from the bleeding
yesterday, but towards eYening t.he violent stitch in the
left side return~d. I opened a vein again to-day, and
obtained four ounces of blm~d. The pul~e was 144; it
fell after the bleeding to 120, and then varied from 18.2
to 144. I observed some slight convnJilh·e twitching&
about the mouth and face. Became very soon insen-
sible, and the suspension of breathing came on twice
during my stay:.
July 6th.-Complains still ofthe stitch in the side, and
slight catching in the breathing with a harsh cough, but
upon the whole she is rather better, and was able to sew
for a short space of time.«< Pulse 120, ancl easily com•
pressible. Alvus astricta.
July 7th.-Is very poorly to•day, and lonks worse than
usual. 'fhere is a blue appearance under the eyes, upon
.
"tate of insensibility, I deferred the operation to the last moment of my stay,
these gentlemen had not the opportunity ofconversing with her, aad ofjudg-
ing of her situation, as I could haYe 1\·i&hea. She could barely anntera quec•
tion when we left her.
• I suddenly madea noise in breaking a piece of spanish juice, 1\·hich I had
in my pocket, and she fell back insensible; but &he did not appear to know
what hnd occasicncd this insensibility, when I as~ her thequestion, after .heor
recovery.
Untv Calif ·Dig1tu d by M1 o oft
the chin, and the forehead. Her face seemll more leu~
cophlegmatic than u11ual. Has complained for two or
three days of a sensation, as if her body were swung to
and fro, and of a very uqpleagant whirling in her head.
The temporary relief she obtains from bleeding, made
her anxious th_
at It should be repeated. I obtained
about nine ounces ofblood. She became insensible, and
was once seized with suspension of breathing previonli
to being bled. Dr. Hill of Greenock, accompanied me,
and we left her insensible, but the pulse which had at
first been 120, and irregular, was increased to 144, up01 .
placing the hand near the mouth. After the bleeding
it varied from 120 to 144, but was more regular, less full,
and easily compres11ible. Her food has consisted latterly
of a cup of coffee and cream, morning and evening, and
a tea spoonful or two of mashed potatoes,at dinner; both
rabbit and fowl have been given, but none of them
agreed with her, even in the smallest qt~antity.
July 8tb.-Is better. The blood was slightly cupped,
and in the fir11t cup the green pigment was perceptible.
This appearan~e has taken place in all the latter bleed·
iqgs, but in the .ast cup, which generally contained the
smallest quantity of blood, and of a more florid colour
it was seldom seen. Pulse 120. Alvus astricta. Urina
modica sed cum dolore redditur.
July IOth.-Complains stillof thestitch in herside and
ofcougb. Pulse 144. Alvus nimis Iiquatur. Repr. V. S.
I obtained only two ounces of blood.
Repr. V. S. velpllle.
July llth.~Was not bled again yesterday, but as she
complained of the stitch in the side, I took away about
.fifteen ounce:.; of blood, in a full stream. The Pulse WlliJ
N *
Umv Ca 1 osoft
9S
144, full and irregular: after the bleeding it fell to 120,
became soft, compressible, and regul~r. She was insen-
sible after half the quantity was taken away, and the
~mspension of breathing coming on afterwards, I tied up
the arm. I remained in the room nearly hal.f an hour
after she li'US bled, but she continued insensible, and did
not recover for an hour. The blood was cupped.
July 1Sth.-The, bleeding relie\·ed her. The cough
is more loose, and attended with !light expectoration.
ulse varying from 120 to 144. Diarrhwa manet.
July l3th.-Complains very much of t.he stitch in her ·
~ide, and of sickness at the stomach. Has taken to-day
only a single cup of coffee and cream, and a few straw-
berries.. Pulse from .120 to l44,.not easily to be counted.
I took twelve ounces of blood away; she became insensi-
ble, and the suspension of breathing occurred three or
four times before the arm ll·as tied up. The pulse fell to
112, was more regular and soft. Alvus liquatur. Urina
naturalis.
July 14tb.-Continued for a considerable time insensi-
ble after I left her. The blood wascupped but not huffy.
The green pigment was observed in two of the cups: A p·
pears very faint, but the pain in_the side, the catching in ,
the breathing, and cough are considerably relieved.
Pulse 114, soft, compressible, and uninterrupted in its
beat: ' Has been affected with inflammation uf the toe~,
terminating in suppuration. The discharge from the
left leg is very slight.at present.
July 15tb.-ls so very low that speaking'oppresses her.
Complains of the stitch In the left side; takes only sug:.u
and water as food, with a little fruit. Pulse 144. Al•u•
minus liquatur.
Un v C If Dtqitt ed ty M crosoft
99
July l6th.--:Is no better. Cannot bear the least inter·
ruption to her breathing. If a })erson sit between her
and the window, which is generally open in .theday time,
she feels uneasiness, and very soon will request him to
remove his seat to either side. Pulse 144. I took about
iix ,ounces of blood away. The breathing became sus-
pended five or six times during my stay, and the pulse
fell to 120, ~as regu)ar but feeble ; when she breath-
ed I did not observe so much of the catching, and her
respiration was much less interrupted than before. I left
her insensible.
July l7tb.-Continues very low. Pulse varying from
120 to 144.
July 18th.-Is worse. Pulse 144, and more full than
yesterday. Mr. Bradleywho accompanied me opened a
vein, and we obtained about fourteen ounces of blood by
a full stream. Insensibility came on, and occasional sus-
pension of breathing, and we left her in that state, which
continued for an hour and a half.
July l!Hh.-Is very low. The rightleg is more swell·
ed, butthe stitch in the side and the catching in the breath-
'
fng are less violent. Pulse varying from 120 to 1;32. Has
taken little or no food but sugar and water, and a tea
spoonful or two ofweak broth, whichproduced diarrhrea.
The thermometer was 92 in the room, 96 in the hands,
and 106 in the mouth: there w~s a fire in the room.
'July 20th..-Is again worse. The pulse 144, moderately
full. The countenance leucophlegmatie, pale, and of a
blue appearance. The oppression in the breathing Wll$
so great that I bled her to the amount of eight ounce$,
through a large orifice. She became iniensible, with o•
casional suspension of breathing.
U I Cal f D gt t d y M OS f
100
· July !!st.-Found her very low, and !!carcely able to
~peak, but the other symptoms appeared less violent. The
blood taken away yesterday w_
as cupped and bulfy, par-
ticularly in the first cup. The upper part of the crassa•
mentum, and for half an inch down, it was of a vermi-
lion colonr, but the lower part was of a deep re·d. It was
so solid that I held it up on the point of a knife: the
green pigment was ob!!en·ablc in the first <t.~P• and more
slightly so, in the second. The puh!e 120, moderate in
fulness, and easily compressible, The strawberries and
the broth disagree with her stomach. Diarrhrea tamen
rget.
July 22d.-l fonnd her very low, and de.>ponding; in
a great measure doubting the po!CSibility of her reco\·ery;
but my hope of it taking place for a short time, is not al-
together given up. Her pulse is moderate in frequency
and fulness, rather low, aud 120 in its pulsatio~s. Urget
valde diarrhrea:
July 23d.-Js ,·cry low, nud occa:sionally affected with
twitchings in the cheeks and in the angles of the mouth.
Complains of frequent numbr.ess in tbe arms and shoul-
ders, and sometimes of pain in the cheeks After the pain
has gone offshe feels a numbne!!sin the cheeks. The abdo-
men feels to herself more enlarged,but the anasarcous swel-
ling in the legs is not diminished. Complains ofmuch pain
in the head and.in the sockets of the eyes. Cannot suppo7t
her head in nn upright posture, hut is obliged to lean it
upon the pillow. Pulse 132, soft and compressible. Al-
vus nimis liqnatur. Nausea snpen'enit, vomitu conco-
mitata suhind~. Capt bi~ vel ter de die spiritus arden-
tis ordinarii cochleare minimum ex nqure et sacchari
pauxillo.
n li Cal 1 ttz
101
July 24th.-She was enabled to keep down half a tea
cupful of thin broth three times a day, by taking the
weakly diluted spirit a few minutes before; bot, if it
happened that the broth were not given almost immedi-
ately after this small quantity of spirit, it produced a
burningsensation in the stomach. Complains very much
of pain and weakney; but she is not worse than yester-
day. Pulse 120, soft and compres&ible.
July 25th.-...Is rather better. Pulse 120,
July 26th.-Is very ill to-day. Her countenance h
a death-like appearance, her lips pallid, but the eyes,
when opened, are particularly brilliant, and the pupils
considerably dilatet1. Complains of more violent pain
in the head, and in the sockets of the eyes. The pain in
the back part of the head is so acute, she caunot bear
the least pressure upon it without much suffering, and
she says the same sensibility to pain ex{ends along 1he
spine to the os sacrum. Has also a throbbing sensation
extending from the pit of the stomach to the back be-
tween the shoulder blades, somewhat similar to the flut-
tering ofa bird within her. Puis(! 120; soft, regular, hut
more feeble. Nausea frequenter, usque ad vomitum,
snpervenit. Diarhrea tamen urget. Urina parca. I gave
her twenty drops of vin. ipechuan. w~ich made her very
faint and sick; but it operated Flightly, and a little bile
was thrown up.
_July 27th.-Continues much the same. The accidental
clanking of the fire irons produced. insensibility. The
anasarcous swelling of the lower extremities is increased,
and extends up the thighs. The hands and arms are also
considerably affected with it, and pit on pressure. Pulse
120. Diarrhrea manet sed d~jectioues minimre cum
tttz b~ Mi
.. '
102
tene!!mo !!a-pe redduntnr. Capt. vespere infus. senn~
cyathum.
July 28th.-Mr. Nairn, who accompanied me yester-
day, made several scarifications in the left leg; but they
hardly discharged any serous fluid. Pulse 120. Infu-
sum sennre in ventriculum acceptum statim evomuit.
July 29th.-Continnes much the same. Dr.Jlannay
accompanied me. Ipassed the end of a bodkin along
the cornea and over the pupil, so as evidently to depress it
-without a tear escaping, or an expression of pain. The
left leg was again scarified. Pulse 120.
.July 80th-Is rather better than yesterday; but com-
plains of siclmes!!, I scarified. the right leg in several
places to-day. Pulse 120. Capt. mist. Alkal. c. sue.
limon. more so!lto si urgeat nausea. ·
,Hora somni Rep. Pi!. Cathart.. u. a.
. .
July 31st.-The saline medicine relieved the sickneY
for a considerable time. The pills were not taken. Pulse
120. E crure dextro sc&rificato detrahitur libere humor
serosus. Ah•i dejectiones minuuntur.
I
Capt. vini Lusitanici meri aqua commh;tipauxillum subinde.
August lst.~Is rather better. Port wine formerly did
not agree with her; but that which was gh·en to her
yesterday, being very old, produced no unpleasant sen-
l!ation upon the stomach, and revived her \·ery much. She
got a little sleep after taking it. WitS requested to take it
mixed with arrow-root gruel, in small quantities. Pulse
120, regular and moderately compressible. Urina parce
~um dolore red«itur. Diarrhrea cess:wit.
Um Ca1
103
Angust2d.-I found her very ill, and her' countenance
was still more changed for the worse, than I bad e1;er
seen it. The swelling of the face and neck certainly dis-
appeared, but that ofthe extremities was uot diminished.
Complained of oppression all o\·er her. · Had considera-
ble catching in the breathing, an~ pain about the region
of the heart. Had taken a savoy buiscuit, which ap-
peared to lie heavy upon her stomach. Pulse 120.
Alvus non solvitur. Ve,xat regre prolapsus ani vel
hremorrhois.
Capt. viu. Ipee. gtts. x. quaque hora parte quarta donee vomitum excitcnt;
August 3d.-The Ipecacubana Wine was not given to
her, as she had thrown up the contents of the stomach.
Takes no food, but the wine diluted with water. Pulse
120. Alvus astringitur.
August .f.-Is not materially worse than yesterday,
but the Pulse vacillates mor~ than it has done latterly.
Mr. Thomas f~lt the-left arm aud I the right at the same
moment. He t!tated the pulse at 130 pulsations in the
minnie. I stated it at 96. We were ho.th rig~t, and it
varied afterwards from this lower point to 132. It fal-
hued more than usual, and once or twice Mr. Thomas
thought he felt little or no pulsation in the wrist.
Yesterday, after she had recaived the last rites of her
church, her breathing became interrupted, and she suf-
fered under a temporary convulsion. A similar effect
was produced in the night, and this morning; she called
the sensation a death fit. . Her general appearance in-
dicates a !ipeedy termination to her sufferings, bnt there
is that sort of tenacity of life about her, that although
I hope little, I do not deipair of a temporary reco,·cry.
The wiua cherishes her, and ihe feels better each time
Un v C f ~ D awz y
lOi
she takes it; and it seems in some measure to counteract ·
the debilitating effects of a copious discharge from the
right leg, which was scarified a few days ago, in a habit
already reduced to an extreme point. Formerly wine
and tonics produced no good •ffect, but alway~ heatec!
her extremely. Medicine can .be or little use in this
case. Arrow root gruel and wine in small quantities,
and repeated every half hour, have been only recom-
mended, with the occasional use of French brandy in
doses of thirty or forty drops at a time, diluted with
water.
' August 5th.-Is not so ill as yesterday; and her coun-
tenance is rather improved. Complains of much pain
under the left and of occasional pain in the right
breast, but it is not so violent as before the bleeding.
Takes only diluted wine and water, which refreshes and
agrees with her. The arrow~root gruel made her sick.
Pulse 120, and more steady than yesterday. Alvus ob-
stipatnr. U_
rina parca cum dolore elicitor. Retrocessit
prolapsus ani.
August 6th.-Continues better, but has little ot no
power in assisting herself. The discharge from the right
leg is so considerable, as to wet through all the linen co- .
vering!', the covered stool upon which her feet are plac-
ed, and e,·en to fall upon the carpet. After I left her
yesterday, she ate a very small quantity of boiled Ray;
previous to, and after her taking it, she swallowed a
very small tea-spgonful of brandy and water, which not
only agreed with l1er 11tomach, but prev~nted any sick-
nees To-day she ate a sop of bread and gravy with
impunity. Complains of n slight sore throat. Se,·eral
of the scarifications which were mad~ iu both legs, at
first occuioned a puriform diicharge. Tho~e I made·
·Un v v gl f:l d
97
last in the right leg, discharge a serous fluid in very
considerable quantity, to which I cbiefly attribute the
amelioration of the symptoms which so lately indicated
approaching death. The wine and brandy have contri-
buted to support a frame, which might otherwise have
l!unk under so great a discharge. Every one who has
seen her for the last few weeks, has supposed it Impos-
sible she could survive, even a single day. Pulse 108.
Alvus obstipatur. Urinre redidit semilibram hodie.
August 7th.-Continues much the same. The dis-
charge from the right leg is very considerable. Her
face seems emaciated, and her general appearance cada-
,verous. The anasarcous swelling is rather reduced.
The pulse under these circumstances is more firm than
one could expect ; it gives from I08 to 112 pulsations in
the minute. AI vus non soluta tuit per aliquot dies.
Urina parce elicitor. Produxit nauseam vinum.
Mr. Robert Harrison, one of the demonstrators of ana..
tomy, to the school of surgery in Dublin, Mr. Nairn,
Mr. Hensman, and Mr. M'Donald, of the Dispensary,
were present to-day. Mr, Harrison pressed a probe
upon the pupil of each eye. He observed that the pu-
pil dilated more upon the pressure, but the eye seemed
otherwise insensible to the application ofthe probe. The
thermometer held in the bands was 92>~; in the moutll
IOO;and in the room with a fire 88'l.
August 8th.-Abont five o'clock, a. m. .M:r. Hughes
called upon, and requested me to visit his step-
daughter as soon as possible, as he thought she
could not five au hour. I saw her at half-past five,
Mr. Thomas was present, and bad gh·en her a teaspoon-
full of a mixture of spir. ammon. comp. Spir cam-
phor, & Tinct. <'ardam. comp. in a litlle ''rater, l'fhicb
:'II**
relieved and occMioned her to thro\v up a good deal of
wind from the stomach. Complained of violent pain in
the head, of excruciating torment iu the stomach and
bowels, and of& painful sense ofweight above the os pu-
bis.· Mr. Tbomag pressed his band upon the abdomen
without exciting any material sensation of pain, and he
observed that the tumour in the left side was not to be
felt; but the. pressure of his hand cam;ed a faintish sick-
ness. The pulse is moderately firm and regular, 108 in
the minute. Her mother had given her six drachms of
Tinch. rhei. which produced no good effect. Urina sup-
pressa fuit par aliquot horas; et reddendi earn nisus do·
lore multo concomitantur. Pulse 120.
Horn prima post meridiem. Found her very poorly in
the morning. Complains ofa soreness in the throat. I ob·
served her to swallow with difficulty and the effort seem-
ed to give her pain. She had been anxious to make her
Will, which, after it had been written, was placed upon her
lap for a few minutes, when she made a grasp to lay hold of'
it, but did not succeed in placing her hand upon it at first.
She at last succeeded with the assistance of Mr. Thomas,
but in the moment of success became convulsed, and the
convulsion wa.s so violent that I thought it would most
probably terminate in death. After some time she reco-
,·ercd and was able to speak. Mr. Harrison and Mr.
tJdny came in; and I whi!!pered to the former to ask her
if she had the least perception of iight? She ans\vered
no. ~ordesc2nt o~ et dentes. Urioa non elicits fuit.
Pulse 108 to l 16. T~e eyes are much more \'ivid in ap-
pearance -than I c.o~ld have expect~d, but they are insen~
aible to the appli~at!on of the finger.
Horn septima, p.m. Is much the same. Slight !pas-:
modic twitchings affect her face nod hands. There
is moisture upon her skin. Pult•e rather more tbnn 100,
and somewhat more feeble. Al·ru• nimla obstipatur.
.Augnit 9th.-It seems she continued in much the same
state until midnight, when she was seized with a most
horrible convulsion, and, before Mrs. Hughes could
render· her assi.~tance, feH upon the floor. She reco·
vered from this attack, and about three o'clock an end
1Vml put to the miseries of as patient a sufl·erer ai in the
1Vhole course of my practice, I ever attended,
At ten o'clock this morning, 1\fr. Thomas sent me the
information ofMissM'A\·oy's death, and I went out vert
~oon after to Mr. Hughes's house. Ou the road I met
Mr. Hughes going to town. Knowing that he had
a personal objection to the examination of Miss M'Avoy'11
body, I condoled with him upon her death, but expres~d
~atisfnction that a period was put to the distressing suf-
ferings of his step-daughter. He then mentioned that,
a~ it was the wish of Mrs. Hughes, and bad been parti-
cularly stated to him by Miis M'Avoy when alive as her.
wish, he consented to it. Having observed the vacillatioQ
of his temper on some occasions, and as it was of great
consequence to obtain all the information such an exa-
mination might afford, I hastened to the house and ar-
ranged the time with Mrs. Hughes, who, on account of
her own feelings, wished it to takP. plnee as soon as pos-
sible. Half-past two, p. m. was fixed upon, and I re·
turned to town to repeat the directions I had befor•
gh•en to Mr. DaYidson at the Infirmary, to have every
thing ready at that hour. I at the sarne time directed
him to send notice (in my name) to Dr. Trail, Dr. Form~
by, Dr. M'Cartney, Dr. Brandreth, Mr. Bickersteth, Mr.
Forshaw, and to Mr. Dawson, to request their atten-
dance at that hour. To Mr. Brandreth, who was at th&
Infirmary at the time, I made a verbal request, but in
consequence of an inflammation of the face, he wa11
obliged to give up the wish he had to be present at the
~umination. A note wu al11o aent tu Dr. CaraoQ, an•
100
1 totallyforgot to send one to Dr8. Jardine, Hannay, and
f!everal others who were interested in the case. Owing to
the time of the day, the other gentlemen I presume, \Vere
not able to attend, but their absence was rendered ofless
importance than it otherwise would have heeD, by the at-
tendance of other medical gentlemen of the town. The
situation of Miss M'Avoy, particularly on the 8th inst.
induced Mr. Harrison above mentioned, to await the
period of her dissolution, and I was happy to avail myself
of his experience and ability in dissection, to investigate
the cause of her death, and by this means, if it were
possible, to account for many ofthe extraordinary symp-
toms which appeared to harrass her so much. I had
two other reasons for preferring Mr. Harrison to any of
our own surgeons, because the one party might be guid-
ed too much by personal regard to me, and by the con-
viction of their own mind of the truth of the statements
I had made in the Narrative, and of their co·incidence
with their own observations. And secondly, because the
prejudice which had been excited by the opponents of
Miss M'Avoy, had had material influence in making ma-
ny of my brethren socompletely adverse to the opinions
I had formed, that I should not have been justified by
the immediate friends of Miss M'Avoy, nor to those ad-
vocates who ha,re expressed themselve~ in her favour,
if I had left the examination to them.
From these considerations, I think, I shall be justified in
h_
aving requested Mr. Harrison to use the knife, in pre-
ference to any ofour own surgeons, who could hardly
under the circumstances of the case, be considered free
from pn•judice on the one side or on the other.
UPO~
J HAVE now given the particulars of the case of Miss
M'Avoy, from the period of the publication of theNar-
rative, to _the present time, and if any otherevidence were
necessary for the confirmation of the statement therein
it might be easily obtained from the testimony of nume-
rous individuals who ha,·e visited her separately and
with me.
The circumstance which has given her opponents the
fairest opportunity of railing at Miss M'Avoy and her
adherents, arose from misconception in the first place,
respecting the influence of her breath, and the mode in
which she supposed it to a~t in her distinction of colour,
&c. Miss M'Avoy found that when her breath was im-
peded by any substance placed befor~ her mouth, she
could rarely distinguish a colour, or read a letter; and
jhe naturally enough supposed that f~eedom of breathing
0
U IV Calf 0 f1. 1Z
106
was necessary to, and had some connection with, the
power. Her opinion was taken up without due consi-
deration, and her opponents' seized the advantage.
although aware it was founded upon an erroneous basis,
and could not be supported.
A moment's reflection should ha\re pre\rented the per-
severance of herself and many of her friends in such an
opinion; for if the breath were necessary to the elucida-
tion of the colour, how could"it act. \Vhen she told
colours behind her, or read under the bed-clothes?
During the very short interval of unconsciousness that
any obstruction was placed near her mouth, I have seen
her distinguish colours, the next moment she has lost the
power, and has recovered it again upon the obstruction
being removed ; circumstances likely to excite a suspi-
cion.that the failure of the power originated in the inter·
cepti_on of the rays of light.
If the obstructing medium were placed at a greater
distance, she would name colours, read, &c. for a longer
period, until she felt-the effect of this obstruction, and
then she would often lose the power; bnt wmetimes
she continued to tell colours, although a sheet of paper,
a haf or any other substance were placed between the
object and her breath. If her mind were occupied by
answering questions or hearing any observation which
entertained her, or if she were subjected to exct>ss of
pain from any accidental cause, the obstruction was not
noticed so soon. The effect of any interposed medium
WaS nearly the same whethet the eyes were CO\·ered or
uncovered. A similar result occurred, if a -plate of glnss
were placed between the object and her mouth, through
which she might ha,·e seen, if the opinion of her oppo-
Umv C /If
107
Mnts were correct, ~nd the colour were distinguished by
the assistance of the eyes,
During the more violent attacks of catching In the
breathing, and of the convulsive motion of the dia-
phragm, the hand, placed near the month, and kept
there for a few seconds, produced a sensation nearly
allied to syncope, and more than once convulsion ensued.
Even now when these symptoms are cotlsiderably reliev-
ed, she cannot hear any obstr~ction of this kind for
more than a few seconds, witbout attemptin~ to remove it.
The powers attributed to Miss M'Avoy were certainly
of so extraordinary a nature as to excite a doubt of their
truth in the mind of the least sceptical person who has
not witnessed them ; but it has been my uniform wish
they should be minutely examined, and their accuracy
explored ·by individuals capable of judging, and every
facility has been afforded by the friends of 1\iiss M'Avoy,
and by herself for this purpose.
It is however impossible to satisl'y the minds of persons
who are determined not to be convinced, and who will
not take the trouble of visiting her, and of examining into
the nature of her case, Nor shall I make any further
effort to produce that conviction in their minds; but to
those who have studied the ample page of nature, in a
liberal and enlightened manner, and to the public in
general, J think I shall be able to assign such :reasons as
will satisfy them, not only of her having possessed the
powers stated in the narratiye, but of her blindness,
The failure which so frequently occurred had more or Jess
effect in agitating her, particularly if it happened when
visitors were present. Tbis agitation almost uniformly
108
increased the tendency to failure, and she could not name
a colour, read a letter, or even sew for_ hours, for days,
and sometimes for weeks. This circumstance bas been
strongly urged as a material point against her, but I
would rather adduce it as a proof in her favour, for if
..1\-liss M•Avoy's powers depended solely' upon the faculty
of vision, I see no reason why she might not have nam-
ed a colour, read 1t few words, or distinguished a ~eal,
~hen placed within the line of vision, yet under these
circumstances she often failed, n·hether covered or un-
covered, whether in a room crowded with company, or
quietly seated by a single friend. This temporary failure-
of her powers has been attributed to cunning, to the
object being within the line ofvision, and, by not a small
number, to her state of health which made her more
easily susceptible of external impressions. Upon the
first view _
of the subject, it would not appear difficult to
ascertain whether Miss l\I'Avoy were blind or she could
see, and I still think it is not so impossible of proof.as
her opponents wish to insinuate. Miss M'Avny has cer-
tainly gh·en proofs of her powers before numerous and
llighly respectable witnesses, and in situations, where, if
she had the most perfect vision, it could not have :;ssisted
her, either in the distinction of colours, in reading, or in
.naming the time of the day. When I recapitulate some
of these proofs which have have been stated in the
narrative, and a few others-which haye since occurred,
the public will probably agree with me, I ha,·e not
ad,·anced any but what I can fairly and honestly substan-
tiate. When duly considered, this occasional loss of
power will bP. found to depend upon causes which owe
their origin to the very peculiar state of the nervous sys·
tem, in n habit materially diseased. This nen·ous irrita-
bility was generally il)creased, when the atmosphere was
loaded with electric fluid, and 8he tben very rarely ga\'O
109
any proof of her powers, but appeared agitated and
uneasy. Fine weather and a clear sky exhilarated, but
moist and dull weather depressed her spiriu.'*
• From this peculiar &tate of her feelings, she would often foretel the
approach' of a thunder-storm, and she once felt a sensation she could not'
account for, previoui to hearing the report of a cannon from a vessel of war,
lying about four miles from the place where MiSII M'Avoy resides. Could
this sensitiveness have been produced from the effectsof vibration acting upon
a highly irritable fibre ? I have known instances of other persons affected In
this way, previous to the report of cannon. It is said Sir Edward Pellew
saved himself from destruction by some consciousness of this kind, when the
Amphion blew up. There is a woman residing in Liverpool, who is deaf
and dumb; yet she knew when the guns at the fort were fired, by some
peculiar effect it had upon the nervous fibre; and a similar effect \\'as pro-
duced by the crying of her infant, which Wai up stairs, at the time the mother
,vas speaking to a person in the room below. 1\Ir. Thomas attended this
• patient, in her confinement. Mr. Nairn mentions the case of a man who '
gained his livelihood by shooting wild fowl in Belfast Lough. He was so
nearly blind, he could scarcely see any object at the shortest distance; but his
hearing was peculiarly acute. He was accnstomed to get into his boat, and
float down the Lough to the place which the birds frequented. By their cry,
and the flapping of the wings, he knew when to place his gun at a proper
distance, upon a resting-place in the boat, and he fired as his ear intirnnted to
him the situation of the birds. Other individuals, it is said, followed a similar
employment, but not one of them with so much success as this poor II)aO.
A still more extraordinary case has been mentioned to me, by the Rev. J.
Hornby, of Winwick, as it was related to him by the Rev. G. Chippendale.
llr. Hornby sent me the letter of Mr. Chippindalc, from which I have ex-
tracted the following paragraph.
" Some years back, probably five or six, a young gentleman of the name of
Arrowsmith, n mem~er of the Royal Academy, at•Somerset House, but of
what degree I cannot remember, came down into this country, and resided
some months in \Yarrington, in the exercise of his profession, as a miniature
portrait painter. He was quite deaf, so much so as to be entirely dumb; he
bud been taught to write, and wrote an elegant hand, in which he was able to
express his own ideas with facility; and was alsoable to read and understand
the ideas of others expressed in writing. It will scarcely be credited that a
person thus circumstanced should be FOND OF li!U81C, but this was the
fact, in the case of Mr. Arrowsmith. He was at a gentleman's glee club, in
\Yarrington, of which I was President at that time; and, as the glees were
sung, he would place himself near some article of wooden furniture, or a p:ll"-
.tition, door, or windo,,.-shutter, and would fix the extreme en:ls of his linger•
Um C~l
110
Another argument has been advanced in proof of her
possessing the organ of vision by her opponents, and bM
nails, which he kept rather long, upon the edge of the wood, or some project-
ingpart of it, and there he would remain till the piece under performance was
finished; all the while expressingby the most significant gestures, the pleasure
he experienced from his perception of the musical sounds. He was not so
much pleased with a solo as a pretty full crashof harmony ; and if the musie
was not very good, or perhaps 1should say, if it was not so correctly executed,
he wouldshew no sensation of pleasure. But the most extraordinary circum-
stance in this caseis, that he was e\·idently most delighted with those passages
.in which the composer displayed his science by modulating in different keys;
when such passages happened to be executed with precision, he could scar~ely
repress the emotions of pleasure he received within any bounds ; for the
delight he evinced seemed to border on cxtacy. This was expressed most
·:remarkably, at our club, when the glee was sung with which we often con-
cluded; it is by Stephens, and begins with the words, "Ye spotted snakes,"
from Shakspearc's Midsummer Night's Dream. In the second stanza, 01\
the words, " \Veaving spiders, come not here, &c."there 1s some modulation
of the kind abovealluded to ; and l\Ir. Arroy.·smith was inraptures at it, such
as would not hne been exceeded in one who was in full possession of the sense
of hearing. These facts are very extraordinary ones ; and that they are facts
can be proved by the evidence of six or eight gentlemen who were present, and
by turns observed him accurately. 1 have not heard any thing of him since
the time al.Joye mentioned; bnt it is probable he is yet living, for he could not
be more than thirty years old, six yenrs ago. He came to \\·arrington a
stranger, and I think no one here knows either his country or his.address,
}lut, as a member of the Hoyal Academy, he may easily be found,"
Winv.iek, Np\"'. I, l817,
l\Ir. Bullock, of London, informed me, this gentleman was known to him.
If we rea'!On byanalcgy, these instances will afford a proof of the substitu.
tion of peculiar power in one for the Joss of another of our corporeal organs.
Indeed it is curious often to observe the effect of any disea~e or injury acting
immediately upon the sensorium, and more particularly in cases of derange-
mclll· In the former case the most irregular motions, or the most quicscc!lt
~tate, may take plaee, as the brain is acted upon by exciting or by debilitating
rau£es. In the latter it m:ty give a man, who before was hardly able toperform
the common duties of life, 1111 original and forcible mode of thinking, \'l'hicb,
previous to th•s deranged action upon th~ brain was nc\·er contemplated. Jt
)n!iy tramform a man of the dullest ideas Intoa sublime poet. It may change
the characterof the mo'tmild, unassuming, nnd modest female, into \he most
l'a•fio_n~te, o!>strusi\'e, and lial~cious characler. llcvcrse thc_circumstance, by
Um Ca f 01qtt cd b
Ill
been urged forcibly against her, even by professional
men, because they observed the pupil occasionally to
contract and dilate. A few remarks npon the construe-
~ -
tion and action of the Iris, will not, I hope, be deemed
irrelevnnt.
'fhe lri;; is the variously coloured circle surrounding
the pupil, which, as it were, perforates its centre. It is
placed as a curtain before the crystaline lens; contracts
in a healthy state upop. the sudden exposure to a vivid
light, or when we look at things \'ery near the eye, an<l
dilates in a \Yeak light, or in Yiewing remote objects.
• Haller supposed the cause of dilatation to be owing to
the abatement of the powers resisting the aqneons
humour; and he gave, in proof of this opinion, the dila-
tation which ensues from great debllity,_fainting or death.
He thought the contraction might arise from a strong
influx of humours, into the colourless vessels of the Irh;,
by which the said ,-essels are extended together with the
Iris, which is thereby elongated, so as to shut up the
greater part of the pupil. 'l'he size of the pupil conse-
, .
quent upon this motion of the Iris appears generally to
be connected with the sensation of the retina, and when
the internal parts of the eye suffer any injury, we are in-
duced to form a judgment from its increased or diminished
action of the state of the optic nerve. The Iris was
formerly considered ns a contirmation of the choroid coat,
until examined more accurately by Zinn, who has de-
which thederangement was produced, and the direct contrary may take place:
the able and thinking mind may become imbecile or Idiotic. The sublime
poet may dwindle into the mere gabbler. And the most pttssionute, obtru-
sive, and salacious female may b~come mUd, unassuming and modest. f o
Yarious and unaccountable arc the effects of nervous influence upon the humnn
body, that it would be highly arrogant in any man to contradict lh!! assertions
or another upon a s~.;bject of this kin:!, unb~s he c~u produce farts to cotahli'k
'(hl:posttion he m1y make "hich crnnot be refntcd.
Unt~ ' Dt_ t ed by
•
112
scri~ed it as being only connected with this coat by the
medium of the ciliary circle. It is probably the most
acutely sensible part of the human body ; being compos·
ed of muscular fibres, a profusion of blood vessels, and of
nerves. 'i'his opinion of the muscularity of the Iris, is
confirmed, particularly from analogy, with the Iris, of
some species of the Parrot, which possesses a ,·oluntary
power of contracting and dilating the pupil, and from
muscular fibres having been observed in the Iris, ofsome
of the larger animals. · Other anatomists deny the mus-
cularity of the Iris, and Wtisberg, in dissecting thatof an
Ox, affirms. no muscular fibres could be seen, and he
thought sufficient proof had been advanced against its
muscularity, in the fact, of it not contracting when light
falls upon its surface. The abbe Mariotte, who opposed
Descartes,, and other philosophers in the supposition
of the retina receiving the impression of light, and
conveying it to the sensorium, was the discoverer
of this curious fact, that when the rays of light fall
upon the centre of the optic nerve, they give uo sensa-
tion. He also supposed the choroid coat to be the seat
of vision, in which opinion he was opposed by M. Pec-
quet. And M. de Ia Hire, has attempted to adjust Ihe dis-
pute by supposing the choroides to receive the impres-
sion of images, in order to transmit them to the retina.
M. le Cat, supposed the cboroides to be a production
of the inner coat of the pia mater; and he supported this
opinion of Mariotte, from believing that the pia mater
itEel( and not the nerves, was the proper instrument of
sensation. He supposed the retina to answer a purpose
!iimilar to the cuticle which co,·ers the pyramidal papill•,
forming the immediate organ of feeling, or that of the
porous membrane, which cove~sthe glandulous papillre of
the tongue; and he only allows the retina to recciv2 the
Uni C /if D ' 1 ed lJ
113
impression of light, without being sensible of it, to mode-
rate it, and to prepare it for its proper organ. I am diverg-
ing in some measure from my subject, but 1 cannot help
observing upon this point that the opinions of Mr. Mi-
chell arestrongly in favour of the choroides being the seat
of vision, and Dr. Priestley says his arguments had more
weight with him than he was at first either able to per-
ceive, or willing to acknowledge, in those of the French
philosophers, although he afterwards allows that several
considerations, which had occurred to him, were favou-
rable to the retina being the seat of vision ; and that M.
de Ia Hire's 'argument in favour of the retina, from the
analogy of the other senses, is much strengthened by
considering that the retina is a large·nervous apparatus,
immediately exposed to the impressio'n of light; whereas
the choroides receives but a slender supply of nerves
in common with the sclerotica, the conjunctiva, and the
eyelids; and its nerves are much less exposed to the light
than the naked fibres of the optic nen·e.
Dr. Monro adhered to the notion of the muscularity
of the Iris, and he attributed the circumstance alluded
to by Wrisberg, to the colour or paint upon the Iris,
which acts as a cuticle in preventing the light from irri-
tating it. This pigment, being waslaed off, the Iris
exhibits hvo sets of muscular fibres, concerning which
various opinions have been formed. The one set in
the shape of. radii, the different colours of which gh•e
the diversity of colour to the eye ; the other circular
surrounding the inner edge of the Tris, which Dr. Monro
considered as the sphincter muscle.of the pupil. Haller
asserts these concentrical orbicular fib1·es of the pupil are
neither visible to the eyes, nor by the microscope, not
e\·en in an ox, as far as he had been able to observe ; he
allows however there iii one distin<'t rin~; of obscn.r•
p
t:. Ca•.t D c ttl
114
fibres in the body or inner margin of the uveal circle.
Mr. C.' Bell's preparations shewed so gr-eat a degree of
vascularity in the' Iris, that he was ready to believe its
action·to be produced by a vascular structure, ·but when
he observed the profusion of ·nen•es in other installces,
obscured by injection, he could notbut allow the mnscn-
·Inr fibres might have been obscured as the ·nerves were.
He observes also, the retina is in a peculiar inanner sus-
ceptible of the impression of light, but he cannot wonder
that light should not stimulale a muscle to contraction,
.when we have every ·proof that it has ·no effect upon the
·delicately expanded D€fVe of the other senses. He sop-
poses.the Iris is only to be affected through 'the seDsation
of the r:etina,•or perhaps rather by'tbe effect communi-
cated to the ~<ensorium, and be gives in proof ~f this
opinion, that in ·coU<·hing h~ has n)peatedly rubbed the
side of the needle against the Iris without exciting a~y
•motion in it. He hns seen it pricked slightly by the
needle, without.shewing any sign of being irritated, and
what appeared to him a convincing pro9f, when cut it
fell 'before the knife in extracting the cataract ·; and in
this last instance, far from being stimulated to contrac-
tion, it bung relax~d. It is evident then, he says, that
no common stimulus applied to the Iris hM any sensible
effect in.exciting it to contraction; and that it is subject
only in a secondary way to the degree of intensity "f
light admitted to the retina.
.Tiie violence of pain occasioned by the inflammation
and other symptoms. consequent upon prolapsus of the
Iris, is extreme in the early stage of the disease, aDd
mar~s great sensibility of the Iris. Is it not probable
therefore the.more violent action of the knife or needle
'{lpon parts so extremely delicate, may so destroy, as to
render them totally incapable of any contraction ? It
U uv Ca 1 Dtgit ze y
11.6
ts a proof of deli"ate sensibility from what Mr. Wardrop
iogeniou~ly observes, that perhaps the motions of·the.
Iris have some analogy to those motions.in plants which
are prod,uced by the sun's rays. Its motions in the eye
where there is a complete cataract, or where the aperture
of the pupil is.drawn aside from a part of the cornea
whi~h has become'opaque, till it gets opposite to a trans·
parent.portion, makes this opinion probable; The Iri&
too in many cases retains it~ power of' contra~tion and
dilatation even where the retina is. completely insensible~
so that it is likely that its motions do not altogether·
depend.upon impressions made on the retina. Mr, War··
drop illustrates the former part of this opinion by the
relation of two cases, in the first an adult who had lost
the sight of one eye, and had a large speck forme.d on
the temporal and central part of the cornea of the other
eye soon after birth. The pupil was ,-ery considerably
dilated towards the nasal part, which remained transpa.:
rent, so that by this· effort of nature, in drawing the
pupilar opening from the opaque to the transparent part
of the cornea, the patient was able to guide himself
through the streets, and in twilight he could see larg~
objects around bim with considerable accuraoy. The
same thing also took place in a young woman's eyes,
under.precisely similar circumstances.* From its great
\·ascularity, there can be littledoubt tll,at muscular fibres
do exist in the lfi:s.t
• Vide Wardrop on the humaq eye, vo\. I. page 83 and 4.
t Haller, on the other hand, denies that the Iris possesses muscular fibres : he
refers the cansc of the contraction and dilatationrathertQ theblood yesscls than
to muscles. Sir Edward Heme infonns us, thathe had seenin the possession of
DT. Bainie, aninjection ofthe Yessels o(the membrana tympani, which appear-
ed nearlyhalf as nuincrous as those of the Iris, from which he cndeavonrs to
prove the existence ~f mt.:sculm· fibres in the membran:t tympani, us they'
I Ca D1g1t d b M ro oft
116
In general the movement of the Iris is involuntary,
but terror, sudden fright, 'and the more. violent passions of
the mind, affect it. It is dilated in the cat when roused to
attention by the scratching of a mon11e, or when it strug-·
gles to escape from any restriction it may be placed
under. It is proved in a variety of cases, that alth6ngh
the retina is dead to the impression of the rays of light,
this contraction and dilatation frequently occur, some-
times in an equally rapid way, as when the organization
of the retina is perfect. and its sentient qualities in their
most active state. We cannot therefore depend upon the
activity of the Iris, as a certain proof of vision in all
cases, and more especially as our opinion on this point is
supported by certain facts which cannot be set aside by
a simple contradictory assertion, or a bare denial.
It is well known that amaurosis or gutta serena, pro-
ducing a partial or complete loss of sight, may be occa-
sioned by acute as well as chronic diseases; it may be
produced by external injury, by cold, by excessive heat,
· by exposure to the too ,·idd light of the sun, by light-
ning, by the stimulating effects of concentrated acids
applied to the nose, by the sudden suppression of the
catamenia, by apoplexy, by wor;ns, by a deranged state
of !he stomach and bowels, and by all those causes
which, acting directly or indirectly upon the brain, pro-
duce an obstruction of the nen·ous fluid, which, as is
generally supposed, for the purposes of vision, should
cannot be disco'l"ered by dissection. \ipon a similar b:uis, we may therefore,
reasonably suppose, that not only muscular fibres, but that nenes, which were
equally obscure, might be al8o di~tributed to the Iris. Although Haller and
ether writers have denied that the Iris possessesany great degree ofsensibility,
yet itisnot probable this denial will satisfy l'hyslologist( in general, because the
Iris certainly possesses motions, not only the m06tdelicate but sensible, whether
eaus~d by the action oflight, or excited by any other agent. •
Um Caltf Dlqttu d by M1 ros t
117
. . " .... . .
pass through the optic nerve into it'! minutest expansion.
We are so little acquainteu with th~ structu~e and func-
tion~ of the brain, that ~e are often surprised upon dis·
section, ·to find tnmour, abscess, or some extraneous
substance, irritating only a part of the brain, .distant
from the optic nerve, produce blindness. We are less
su.rprised when it is preceeded by sympto~s indi~at~
ing the accumulation of fluid in the ventricles, or
between the meninges of the brain, or by hydatids, by
extravasation of blood, or by tumours pres~ing upon
those nerves at their origin, or before they pass through
the ~kull. If pressure be made upon the ner~e, previ?us
to its division, blindness may take place in both eyes; bot
where. it is only applied to the optic nerve of one side,
it will probably cause only blindness in that. eye. Upon
examination of the optic nerve, after death, it does not
follow tbat any difference appears between the optic
nerve of'the blind or of the sound eye. This also m~y
sometimes be the case, where both eyes are blind, for the
canse of blindness is not ahvays ascertained by dissection.
Many instances however are mentioned by authors
where sufficient proof has been given after death of tb~
cause of blindness; and some have occurred where the
optic nen•es have been materially'altered in their ap-pea-
rance, and yet blindness · has not taken place. It has
been observed by authors that the reciprocal sympathy
between the eyes is so active that no person anxious to
obtain either physiologic~( or pathological knowledge,
!Ohould for a moment forget it. This knowledge is more
particularly useful in the examination of cataract; and
it is of the highest importance to keep one eye entirely
secluded from the light, while the surgeon inspects.the
state of the Iris of the other; for the very impression
of the rays of light upon one eye, sensible to this stimulus
is known to be often sufficient to produce corresponding
b
118 .
motions in the Iris of the other eye, although it is ascer-
tained that that eye is in a perfect state of amaurosis.
This circumstance has been explained by the decussation
of some fibres from the optic nerve, at their union ; but
there are instances mentioned when the optic nt;rves have
descended without any union during their whole course,
and the sight was perfect in man, in some other animals.
and more particularly in fishes.'*
It is well know that contraQtion and dilatation exist in
those cases where cataract is so complete as to cause
total blindness, or at least to prevent the transm.ilssion of
lJght to the retina, but in their more advanced stage the
pupil is sometimes more dilated, and the Iris moves ,·ery
slowly and inertly, because the cataract or diseased
chrystaline lens touches the Iris, and impedes its action.
But Baron Wenzel informs us there are other examples
of cataract in which ~he pupil may be quite motionless,
and yet sight will be restored after the performance of
the operation, a proof the motions of the pupil are not
solely guided by the sensibility of the retina, bqt are
influenced by other causes.
Mr. Samuel Cooper, in his very valuable surgical die..
tionary, .makes a supposition of cataract existing, where
gutta serena was complete in both eyes, but in which
• N;rvi optici In Raia pisce modo peculiar! a cerebri basi orti, et pastel\
trochlea quadam communiti, separati.Qt ad oculos deferuntur-" Yide Btiggli.
Opthalmograpbia. Edit. Cantab. 1676, page 71. It was the opinion of Sir •
Isaac Newton and others that objects appear single because the two optic
nerves unite before they reach the brain, but some anatomists ha\·e observed
that the optic nerves do not mix; or confound their substance, being onl1
united by'a close cohesion; au!l objects have appeared si!lgle, when the optic
• nen·es were found to be disjoined. · '
-in homine vero et quaqrupedis arctissimc (in piscibus tamcn per simplicetU
solununodo contactum) uniuntur.-Vide Driggs ut supra.
Un Calf
].19 .
'there were the freest contraction and dilataiion of the
pupil, and of the consequences which might result, if a
surge~m, induced by the moveable state of the Iris, were
to undertake an operation; under such circ~mstances, for
the removal of the cataract, as it would be unavailing,
·from the rays of light having only been transmitted to an
insensible retina. 'Venzel and Richter, both notice these
peculiarities, and the former refers the circumstance to
the Iris deriving its nerves wholly from the lenticular
ganglion, whilst the immediate organ of sight·is consti-
tuted entirely by the optic nP.rve.
The best operators for cataract are also of opinion,
that the distinction oflight from darkness, as to the prog-
nosis of the result of the operation, is of much more con-
. .
sequence !han the motion of the Iris.
In many cases of am~urosis, where the retina is entire-
ly destroyed, the pupil becomes im~oveable, dilated, and
, of its natural black colour; sometimes it has a dull glossy,
muddy amber, or horny appearance ; at other times it
is greenish; now and then \Yhitish, and opaque, so as to
be liable to be mistaken for an incipient cataract. The
symptoms ofamaurosis are however very irregular, some-
times in the most complete and incurable cases, the pupil
is of its natural size, and even capable of very free mo-
tions, and occasi.onally it is actually smaller, and more
contracted. Richter asserts, that in particular instances,
the Iris not only possesses a power of motion, but, is ca-
pable of moving with uncommon actidty, so th~t in a
very moderate light it will contract in so unusual a de-
gree as nearly to close the pupil. Mr. Samuel Coeper,
mentions two . ,or three remarkable instances of the
very active state of the Iris in cases of amaurosis which
were shown to him by Mr. Albert, surgeon of the York
mv <.; r -D g1t1 ed IJ
l:W
Ho!!pital, Chelse:~; he had seen others also, in St. Bar-
tholomew's. Similar cases may be seen, occ<U>ionally, in
' every hospital. I have observed them in our Infirmary_,
and in the Blind Asylum. Mr. M'Donald, house surgeon
of the Edinburgh Hospital, mentioned to me, a similar
case in that Hospital. The patients above alluded to,
had, most of them not the least power of dL~tinguishing
between total darkness, a candle placed before their eyes,
or the vivid rays of the sun. Similar facts have also been
related by Janin, Schmucker, and other writers.
Mr. Lucas, of Leeds, in his paper on cataract, has
mentioned the family of the Rev. Mr. Hall, of Leaven,
near Beverly, in Yorkshire, consisting of five children
who were all born blind ; none of them could distinguish
Jight from darkness, although the pupil was in common
neither too much ·dilated nor contracted, yet it had
motions which did not seem to depend upon the usual
causes, but were irregular. They were in different
degrees ideots, and.one limb or other was in perpetual
motion in a manner resembling St. Vitus's dance ; from
which Mr. Lucas supposed there was some peculiarity in
the structure of the brain.*
Whether the opinion of the generality of philosophers
who make the retina the sole organ of vision1 of those
who formerly supposed the 'chrystaline lens the best
adapted for this purpose; of the Abbe Marriotte and
others, who thought the choroid coat to have this influ-
ence, or of the few who might imagine the other parh•
of the eye, and more particularly the choroid, the ciliary
processes and the Iris to be aiding in this important office,
be correct or not ; it is curious to observe how wounds
• \"ide M~dici>l Observation& and Enqnlrlcs, vol. 6.
121
of the ciliary processes produce blindness, if there b.e
not some peculiar connexion between them, and the ,
optic nerve during the operation of vision. Whether
this effect be produced by an immediate impression upon
the sensorium, communicated from the nerves distributed
to these parts, and acting immediately from the brain
upon the optic nerve, at its origin, may be doubtful; but
it seems as reasonable to suppose this effect as to imagin~
the blindness to have originated from the communica-
tion which may take place through the slender filaments,
which are distributed to the outer coat of the optic nerve
before they join another filament of the third pair, pre-
vious to forming the ·opthalmic or lenticular ganglion.
A wound of the frontal branch o_f the fifth pair of nerves
is very often followed by a variety of nervous symptoms
and frequently by complete blindness, with great dilata-
tion of the pupil. Mr. Wardrop has seen several cases
of wounds which punctured the sclerotic coat, followed
by a complete amaurosis, accompanied with a pupil very
much dilated. In such cases, he s~ys, it is probable
that the ciliary processes were injured; affording an
additional proof of the accuracy of Beer's observations·
on the danger of such wounds in operations of the eye,
From the facts adduced above, it is certainly reason-
able to infer, that the motion of the Iris is not an infal-
lible symptom of the sensibility of the Retina ;>11< and
• I have ju;t seen one of the sons of Mr. Squires, of \Valton Lodge, near
Liverpool, who wasstruck upon his temple, by the contents ofa pistol, com•
posed of chewed paper and sand, formed into small wads, which was fired
by another boy, on the fifth of November, 1817. He, at the moment, fell
down as dead, and from that period his right eye lost the power of vision.
The adjacent soft parts were tornto pieces, and portions ofthe temporal bone
came away for several monthsafterwards, so thatlittle doubt exists that blind·
ness took place from the nerve having been lacerated. 1'be pupil ofthe blinll
eye contr11ets and dilates uron exposure to li&ht, or from pressure of the
Q
cro of '
122
that this appearance of contraction and dilatation of the
pupil, upon which certain indh·iduals particularly found-
ed their opinion of Miss M'AYoy's possession of the sense
of vision, may, in this case, have led them into an errone·
ous conclusion.
Previous to my attendance, Misslll'Avoy had been for
a long period !;E'fionsly indisposed, and for nearly tweh·e
months had been affected with a se\·ere pain in the head.
The firing of the guns at the Fort, on the 4th of June,
1816, considernbly aggrayated this symptom, producing
a throbbing and beating sensation. She was affected
with giddiness, and. staggered in walking across the
room; the vessels of the conjunctiva were filled with
red blood, but the action of light produced little un·
easiness. With the left, which at an early period had
&uffered more from inflammation than the right eye,
she could s~arcely distinguish any object ; and with the
right eye for several days, before I saw her, every object
at a distance, appeared white and those which were near
double.*
finger upon the eye-lid. Both the pupils were larger than natural, and upon
exposure to the light of a candle, it contracted in the sound, in rather a
greater degree, than in the blind eye. It is more perceptible in the blind
eye, when exPosed to the li~ht ·or the sun, than to that of the candle. In
presenting the pointof the finger suddenly to the sound eye, the eye-lid moored
very quickly; a similar movement, also, took place at the same time, from
sympathy in the blind eye, when the finger was presented within the visual
range of the left, or sound eye; but if this eye were covered, or the finger
pointed at the right eye, out of this range, this sensibility of the eye-lid did not
occur. 1\fr. Davidson, of the (nfirmary, was present at this eumination.-
June2, 182().
• Since the publication ofthe narrative Miss Johnson, a respectable school-
mistress, with whom, about the age of thirteen years, Miss l\1'Avoy WAS a
scholar, mentioned, U{IQTl visiting her duYing the period when she was able to
distinguish colours, that she recollected hal"ing punished 1\liss i\l4A\·oy for
reading tile same words twice over, and ~he supposed afterwards, itmust h~~
been owing to I!Oille cle~cd in the eyes.
Umv Calif D g1 t d }'
123
On the 5th of June, I ~·isited her for the first time, and
I was led to imagine from these symptoms, that oppres-
s.ion'of the brain existed. In the afternoon of this day,
Mr. Thomas, the ordinary medical attendant of the fa-
mily, was sent for, in consequence of the leeches, which
had been just applied, producing syncope before they
had had time to gorge themselves with blood. They
·were immediately taken off, and on the 6th of June, he
observed her to be blind. Ou the following day I again
visited her, and found the pupils considerably dilated, in-
sensible to the action of light; her actions indicated
blindness, and she could not move without assistance,
from place to place. The pain of the head was very
acute ; the pulse feeble, irregular, and frequent. On the
!Hh of June !ihe was seized with convulsions, and in the
course of that day, became paralytic on the right side.
On the 12th she appeared so mueh exhausted, that we
did not expect her to survive through the night. At
three o'clock p.m. of this day, she was obserYed to gasp
for breath, and.evidently to labour under a sense of suf-
focation from fluid passing down into the stomach. Her
weakness was so excessive, she could not exert herself to
eject from the month any part of thi11 fluid until the 16th
instant, when about seven ounces were obtained ; a part
of which was afterwards submitted to Dr. Bostock's ana-
• lysis, who found it to be of that nature denominated Al-
buminous, in every respect resembling the fluid which is
effused in ascites, and iu ,·arious species of dropsy. He
observed H differed from the fluid form~d in hydrocepha-
lus by containing a larger quantity of animal matter,
but at the same time its solid contents were less than
those of the serum of the blood. Soon after this dis-
charge took place the convulsions ceased, but recurred
again on the 2d of J ~ly, and were again relieved by (l
similar discharge, but in a nmchsmaller quantity through
u l- I D it1 A
124
.
the nostrils. I need not enumerate the different attacks
-of convulsions and their termination, as they are al~
,ready stated in the narrative, or the continuation of her
.case; let it suffice to say, she has ne\·er~ from her own
account, been entirely free from hPad-ache, more or iess
Jiievere, frequent p~ins across and in the sockets of the
eyes; and she has been afflicted with convulsions and
.other various disease to the present time.*
- The pupils were insensible to light, did not contract
or dilate until nearly four months after she became blind;
and since that period the contraction and dilatation has
been very irregular. Sometimes the contraction has been
so great as to diminish even the .diameter of the pupil
to an unusual degree; whilst, at other times it was
scarcely acted upon by light in any form, or by pressure
of the finger, which now and then occasioned contrac-
tion and dilatation, when the approach of a candle pro~
duced· no effect:
The pupil js often observed to remain dilated, when
uposed to a bright light, and I have seen the right eye
in an obscure light, dilated <J.S if belladonna had been
applied to a sound eye, when the left eye was only di-
lated, as it commonly is, to ~bout one third part of the
extent of the Iris. ·
-
The substances which aet most decisively in dilating
tbe p1Jpil, as belladonna and hyoscyamus, ~o not pro-
duce their customary effe~t upon the pupils of Miss
M'Avoy's eyes. Indeed, I have sometimes applied the
• From what cause has it happened, that 1\lr. Sandars and the greater part
efher opponents have 'sc~r~ely noticed drcumstances ofso important a nature,
or at least have passed them over in a manner to induce the pubUc at a di~ta'!CO
~ ~uppose they nevin' had OfC~rred ~ . '· ' • . . . · .
tc
121>
·one or other of tbese extracts without producing any
material change 7 whilst at other tlll)es a 'greater dilata-
tion took place on the next day. Once oil the following
day, after the application of the belladonna, the pupil
appeared elong~ted from 1lbove downwards, like the
pupil, in the day time, ofone of ~he feline species.
In this case, blinking is not produced by the exposure
of the eye-balls to the vivid rays of the sun. The solar
spectra, thrown in their most brilliant colours, and with
their most rapid vibrations upon the eyes, were received
without winking, or shewing any sign ilhe was aware of
them, except as some_of the colours gave her a sensation
of more or less pleasure, but her e;res remained equally
firm and motionless!
'
Contraction, but generally in a slower degree than
usual, occurs often when a candle is brought near tp
the eye, b~t sQmetimes it produces no effect,
. ' .
'
The cornea was generally insensible to the application
of any substan~e. Mr. Thomas,. as mentioned in the.
Narrative, placed his finger on the pupil, and Miss
f\1'Avoy did not ~tppear to have felt it. Mr. Bedford
pressed a probe on the cornea, without e:x:citing any
pain, unless '~hen he touched the eyelids. A similar
experiment was tried by Dr. Jardine, and also by Mr.
Davidson, house-surgeon of the Infirmary, but in both
cases a little apprehensiveness was observed; and a tear
or two passed over the eye-lid, when the latter gentle-
man made the experiment; but this circumstance appear-
ed to me to arise from their having touched the eye-lids,
~;hich were sore and tender, from the meibomian glands
beingdi!;eased and discharging matter. Miss M'Avoypass-
ed her pnger over the cornea, and Dr. Jardine rubbed
~be probe across the cornea and pupil of each eye, but
'
not a tear escaped, nor was collected in the eye ; and
indeed the cornea was depressed before he observed he
had touched it. Mr. .Davidson, at another time, having
no probe, made use of the upper end of a closed com-
mon lancet, but it was rather too coarse an instrument
to apply without touching the eye-lash or lid. I again
made use of the head of a large pin, which I laid on the
pupil, but the eye-ball moved, and A~i!ls M'Avoy said I
bad touclted t.be eye-lid, which I have. no doubt was the
08Se, u I afterwards placed on the pupil, pressed upon
it, aud rubbed across the cornea, a le~f <'ut for the pur-
pose, wlum I rested my hand;and the eye-lid was gently
held up without producing the slightest moiion in the
eye-ball. , Mr.· M'Donald, of the Edisbur·gh Hospital,
repeated this experiment with a similar result, and I
have several times since done it without exciting the
least apparent sei:sibility.
Philosophers of the earliest times employed as a most
effectual test, the sudden passing of the hand, or finger
across the eyes, and the efficacy ofthis test has been con-
firmed by Morgagni, by other Anatomists, and by the ae-
tual practice of Oculists of the present day. Ithas how-
ever been.objected to, by the opponents of Miss .M'.Avoy,
as a sufficient test, because instances have occurred,
where by.a strong effort of the will, and probably when
they were aware of the experiment to be made, blinking
did not take place upon the presentation of the finger or
hand. Under such circumstances, it might so happen, ·
bot when it is applied unexpectedly, the experiment will
seldom fail. Tbis has been tried in every possible way
1lp8D·Miss: M'Avoy, nn<l the result has been uniformly in
bel! favour. If any further confirmation upon this point
be neceiisary, I cau st&te, that not a muscle, or ·fibre of a
muscle of her face was mo-red, nor a symptont of fear ex-
Um Ca tf Dtq t1
127
pres~ed when I presented a pistol at her head. A similar
experiment, and with a similar result, was made by Mr.
Nairn, and Mr. Udney surgeons in Liverpool, and I be- .
lit~\·e, at this moment, neither Miss M'Avoy, nor any of
her family, is aware of such experiments having been
made.• In tl1c presence of Dr. Nimmo, of Glasgow,
Captain Owen, of the Navy, a pistol which I gave to Mr..
Gladstone, for the purpose,_ who was one ofthe party, I
believe was presented at her, by him, but not at the roo-
ment being present, those gentlemen will state the result,
and I have no doubt it will confirm that made by me, and
the other gentlemen.t The same pistol I presented at
Miss 1\l'Avoy, I levelled at a gentlemqn upon a visit with
me, after mentioning I had tried a curious experiment
upon her that morning, but the result was very different;
he nearly fell from his chair.
A Noble Duke, deceased, I have been told, was in the,
habit of trying the fortitude of his guests in this manner,
but he never found but one man (and that a Poet,) who
could stand the brunt ofa presented pistol, without an ex-
pression of fear.
· I hardly think that Pyrrho, mentioned by Diogenes
Laertes, whose constancy was so great that he sufrered
incisions and cauteries to be made upon his body, but
was never observed to wink his eyes, would have been
able to avoid blinking upon the sudden application of a
pointed or other instrument to l1is eyes, however firm
he might be; because the motions of the Iris in man
• This circumstance had been mentioned to two ladies who visited her about
the middle of last month, and they by accident mentioned that this experi·
ment had been made. April 5th, 1820;
t I haYe since understood (rom l\Ir.Glad"tonc, that the reoult w~s s"milar t~
that which I had stated, and that ·he party had no doll~t o! herblindne•
"•
128
are involuntary, and do not depend upon mental intre-
pidity. In fine, all those experiments which have been
usually made to ascertain if blindness really existed,
have been tried in this instance, and have convinced me
of the fact. It appears also, that the proofs above relat-
ed are sufficient to satisfy the mind ofany reasonable per-
son, that Miss M'Avoy's blindness commenced at the
period mentioned; and, fro~ the causes still existing,
~hich shew material derangement in the brain, and in
the nen·es, we may safely conclude blindness still exists.
From the length of time in which the sensibility ofthe
retina has been destroyed, and from the frequent attacks
of violent disease, some alteration in the appearance of
the eyes, and constitutional character migbt have been
expected, but the change is less than one would have
imagined, although it is observable, for a little time,
after an attack of convulsion.
The moveable capability of the eyes is certainly im·
paired, and the muscles appear to have lost their volun-
tary action, as in endeavouring to raise her eyes to the
ceiling, she bas not the power of doing it, nor of de-
pressing them to the ground. The eye-lids fall over
the eyes when she attempts to turn them downwards ;
, but if a person attentively observe· the pupil, by looking
...
under the eye-lids, the eyes will be seen in the same
position as they were before the attempt was made.
The motion of the eye-ball, inwards and outwards, is
not so free as is natural, but it takes place to a certain
extent. When convulsed, however, the eye-balls are
obsen-ed to be turned upward~, to mo,·e to and fro,
and even when the suspension of breathing comes on,
the eye-balls sometimes moYe, and cause n tremulous
agitation of the eye-lid!!, perceptible to an observer:.
Umv C llf D
129
. . .
Upon raising the eye-lid, I ha\'e felt a slight resistance,
whilst at other times the eye-lid was raised and fell as if
totally insensible. If Miss M'Avoy be not excited by
the conversation or the society of agreeable friends, the
eye-lids fall down and almost cover the eyes as if she
were about to sleep. On entering Jbe parlour, during
the state of insensibility in which I have found her, I
have observed this more particularly, and she has often
not even raised them, although she had recovered from
several attacks of convulsion,or suspensi.on of breathing,
until she found, by some one speaking to me, or when
l spoke to her, that I was in the room. During this
period of suspension of breathing, she is perfectly insen-
iible to e\·ery thing which pa,sses, but the circulation in
the wrists continues nearly in the same manner, as when
she is free from it. The period of suspension in these last
attacks varied only from 15 to 45 seconds; once it has been
mentioned i~ the Narrative, this suspension.continued for
ni~ety second~.•
When she is desired to direct her eyes to the place
where any person sits, and which she know;S from hear-
ing him speak, it would appear to an indifferent observer,
she looked npon it, but if the pupil be ~atched atten-
tively, it will be frequently seen not to be in the direct
line of vision. There is also generally an amaurotic
appearance in the eye, more particularly if she be kept
quiet, and not stimulated to any exertion. Tf her cap
be taken off, and the general contour of the face and head
be attentively examined, I have the most perfect con-
viction that experienced Physiologists, Anatomists and
Oculists will coincide with me in my opinion -of her
blindness.
Mr. Gough~ of Kendal~ and other gentlemen, who
R
db
180
ha.ve neyer ~een Miss M'Avoy, have argued against the
·possibility of her possessing the powers related. in the
Narrative, but" facts are stubborn things," and· the in·
fluence of opinions, founded upon mere theory, Q.annot
ultimately prevail against them, however they may be
obscured for a time from public view. Reasen and
truth are often overwhelmed by prejudice, but '' non
pudet physicum, id est, speculatorem, venatoremque
naturre ab animis consuetudine imbutis petere tes·
timonium veritatis ?" From the earliMt times t~ories
. .
have existed, which have formed the basis of th.e p~Uo·
soplly of that particular rera; these have been exchang-
ed for others as soon as their futility was ex~osed,
antl even those of the present day: will pass. away un·
less they have their foundation in. expedmeMt ~nd
fact.
. I shall pass over the observations of Mr. Goagb, upon.-
the ingenious mode in which he supposed ,it possible
imposition might be practised by Miss M'Avoy, with the
simple remark that he should have taken care to hAve
~ad a better foundation. for, his assertions, .before he
implicated her friends, and her medical attendants as
auxiliarie!i in the deception. I have taken all the pains
in my power to investigate her: own conduct and that of
her friend~, during a period of more than three years,
and I am perfectly convinced no imposition either ex-
isted or was attempted. Her mother, Mrs. Hughes, is
a woman of a communicative disposition, not refined in
her habits, but industrious and. civil, unleSs when roused
into warmth of expression and feeling by a.n~ conduot
which gave pain or uneasiness to her daughter. Jf
\here be one woman less adapted than another to carry
on imposition in a case of this nature, I think Mrs.
;Hu&"hell would be the per~on.,..J should point at.. The
131
sltep father is hasty in his "temper, but poiSeSied ef tbat
sort of pride which would prevent him from fending hia
lid to any attempt at ·impositioa. He has had several
bhildren by Mrs. Hughes,· one of whom di~d lately,
from the effects of psoas abscess; one who is ricketty;
anotherofa consumptive habit; and two who are iu tole-
rably good health,·but are ofa strumous diatllesis. They
are very young, and require the care of their mother,
and she appears to have afforded it to the utm~st of
ber power ; but the superior sufferings of her eldest
daughter may have influenced her to pay this daughter
an extraordinary degree of attention, which has some-
times subjected ' her to the displeasure of her husband.
From the observations I have made, it appears to me
Mr. Hughes felt irritated by the frequent visits of stran·
gers to his house, and many ·of, those comforts, which
a quiet home afforded, were at those times denied to
him; and to have put a stop to them, he would gladly
ha,,e discovered imposition if it really existed. After
the wa,·ertree meeting he took a great deal of trouble
both separately antl in conjunction with his wife, to dis-
cover any trait indicative of deception in his step daugh-
ter, but these repeated trials only confirmed him in the
conviction of her integrity. · This evidence from a step
father will probably be esteemed stronger by the world
in general, than if it had been given by her own father,
who might be supposed to have been influenced by his
paternal feelings, in not making so strist an enq1iiry.
In this case I have not been able to discover apy object
Miss M'Avoy or her fr.iends could ~ave in practising
imposition upon her medical attendants, and upon the
public. Her opponebts, indeed, have asserted, that
Miss 1.\l'Avoy or h~r mother, has receh·ed money in
considerable sums, nnd that this was a principal aim in
the ~dmission ofstrangers ·to vhdt her ; ~ut if even thi~
132
were the case, although it might throw suspicion upon
her motives, it yet could not do away with the strong
evidence of her blindness; or of her .having possesse~
peculiar powers. If my information, however, be cor-
rect, they can produce no witness in support of their
a~<sertion~ Is it to be believed, they would not have
long ago declared. the particular instances of money
having been given, if the assertion were founded in fact?
I ba.,·e the authority of the parties to say, they never
have received money, and I challenge the traducers of
·Miss M'Avoy's fame to the proof. This assertion has
most probably .originated in the supposition, it might
be so; by being bandied about from one to another,
it has at la:;t assumed a po!itive form, and were it to
be retraced to its source, it would be found to have as
much truth in it as in the old story of the black crows.
,'fhe account I have given in the (Jontinuation of the
Narrative, of some pieces of silver which were left in
the bands of the Re,·. Mr. Vincent Glonr, by Lord
Lilford, for the avowed purpose of purchasing. fruit
for Miss ·M'Avoy, and which were returned to his -
Lordship, is the only exception; but Miss ~l'Avoy's
refusal to receive the money, and her. conduct upon
that occasion are perfectly satisfactory 8he had neither·
taken money before, nor was it her inteoti~n to retain
it at this time,
The presents receh·ed by the parties at different times,
have been excessh·ety magnified; but I believe they
may be all comprised in half a pound of tea .from M.r.
Egerton Sm!tb, the editor of the Mercury; a few bottles
of wine brought by Mrs. Pentland, for l\Irs. Hugbes'd
own use, who was near her confinement; some game
from Mr. Blundell, of !nee; and a little fruit from one
or two other persons who visited her. .
Un vCa 1
133
The situation ?f life !lf the parties is that ofme~~ocrity.
Their income is rather more than £200 per imnum, a
sufficient competence for every rational purpose; and it
will at least afford the comforts to a family li':ing in
their retired way, if it do not allow of the luxuries of
life. Independent of this income, Miss M'Avoy baa
about £450.
The testimony of her friends, who bad the mo~t fre-
quent opportunitie~ of studyi.ng her temper, is·highly
in ~e·r favour; they speak of her mildness of manner;
the goodness of her disposition; her strict adh~rence to
truth ; and her attention to her religious duties.
The Rev. Edward Glover, her former con.fessor, who
is a mild, a respectable, a conscientious, and a sensible
~an, gives his sancti~n to her po~session of all the qua-
lities abov~ enumerated, and his e\·io:lence is a bo~t ip
,itself. He b~ observed to me that the friendship she
always expressed for him, the confidence placed in hi~,
the grntitude she felt for his religious in~truction, and
the sincerity with which, under her awful situation, she
conversed with him, when preparing her to appear be-
fore the God of truth, must place any suspicion of
~raud beyond the possible range of human delinquency.
She has nearly attained her twentieth year,. has had
little communication w1th the world, previous to th.e
d isco\·cry of her ·pecul!ar powers, and possessed of a
, character, which those friends, who know her best, have
giv~n, and to which I can testify, by my own experi-
ence of the g·enernl tenor of her conduct since I hav,e
known her, it is not likely she would attempt imposi..
ti~n; but ifshe had done so, I thin_
k it would have been
still more extraordinary if I and c:>thers, ~ho have most
' i;allf V erosof
attentively examined he'r every action, ha4 ftot found
it out. ·
. r
' I ha~e made enquiry also into her intentions, ifit may
plea~e the ' Aimighty to res't~re her to health, and
she informs me it has always been her wish to becom~
a Nun; but her mother will not consent to ibis plan,
until she arrive at the age of twenty-four years, when
s'he will yield to her wishes, if her daughter still con-
tinlle 'in. the .same mind. If she recover, aud attain
~his age, sbe ielis me 'it is .her intention·still to pursue
'this -plan. So~e of~ber opponents 'have imagined a de-
sign connected' with her religious faith, and that her.
peculiar powers were only assumed for miraculous pur-
poses; and· this intended designation of her life might
appear a confirmation of this' opinion, but I am co~fi­
·derit ·no such intention was ever contemplated by her-
self or her friends, and that the idea of becoming a
Nun originated 'in the innocent wish of a calm and
resigned mind for a quiet and retired life.
J,et any one look at this poor ·girl, labouring under a
most tormenting disease, which has pre•tented her from
lying down for more than two years, in an horizontal po-
sition; who, for the·same period, has not known the com-
fort ofa bed, or of undre!!sing herself, but for the purpose
ofcleanliness, aftlicted'with.a severe and constant head-
ache, with a tumour·in the side, so painful that the least
pressure distre~sed her for hours, with anasarcous swell-
ings in her legs, which frequently required scarifications,
to be made, to give her temporary relief, with occasional
oppression, and frequent cafcbing in the breathing, 'a
com•ulsive motion of the diaphragm1 and with the almost
constant dread of dissolution. Let her opponents say that
a female of her general character, and aflicted in so sari--
Un v f D1g1t1~ d b
135
ou1a manner,candeceiTe, and I will not hesitateto declare
those breasts callousto the common feelings ofhumanity, .
which can hazard such a suspicion: to attempt argument
with men of this description, would be futile in the ex-
treme, and no one, whose motives are good, and ho·
nourable, will envy them their feelings.
C I tft db
•
UPON
'J'he PAMPHLET of lJfr. JosepiJ Sandars,
Entitled
" HlNTS TO CREDULITY;"
Upon the Letters and Observations of Mr. EGERTON SlUTH1 and other
Unbelievers in .the Powers possessed by" Miss M•AvoY, and in the Fact
of her Blindness. '
WHEN assertions nre positively made, and seeming
proofs brought forward by persons of presumed respecta•
bility, it is difficult, however erroneous they may be, to
refute them. It is aduty I owe to Miss M'Avoy, to those
who have witnessed her powers, and to myself, not to al-
low them to pocss current, without a full and fair exami-
nation. The boldness with which they have been ad-
vanced, and the pains which have been taken to promul-
gate them, have given them a position in public opinion,
which truth does not always· attain, without these adven-
titious aids. I am well aware it is an arduous task, to
convince men, who are prejudiced before they enter into
the investigation of any doubtful fact; nor will they al-
ways allow themselves to be wrong, when they have in-
vestigated it. In the progress of their examination, this
prejudice often biasses their judgment, so as to obscure
the truth. It is a weakness to which human nature is
too often liable; therefore, I do not wonder it should ex·
·ist in this very peculiar case, and that doubts of the fact
should have arisen, but 1 do not regret it, as it has ~ven
s
0
188
me an opportunity of re-considering the grounds upon
which I formed my opinion of Miss 1\I'Avoy's blindness
It is certainly less detrimental to the interests of science,
that sceptical should prevail over credulous opinion; but
it may be carried too far, when itendeavours to do away
with the evidence of the senses in cool and dispassionate
inqui_
ry. If Miss M'Avoy be blind, which Hte preceding
inquiry attempts to prove, the posses~ion of the po,vers
ascribed to her, must be allowed, ancl it will become a
subject of importance in the Philosophical world, as well
from its connexion with the theory of \'ision, as- with the
physiology of the varied powers of touch;
I have been led into the above remarks by the very
great pains which have been taken to bear down every
proof favourable to Miss l\J'Avoy; and by the par-
tial manner in which some of her opponents have com-
mented on the facts in the Narrative. :1'\'lr. Sandars,and
Mr. Egerton Smith, have talum the lead, in endeavour-
ingto influence the public against Miss M'A,·oy; the first
in a pamphlet, ·entitled " Hints to Credulity," and the lat-
ter, in detached pieces, some of them under his own sig-
nature, address~d to me, and not a few which are anony-
mous, butwhich are supposed to have emanated from the
same persevering source. Had the public not given a
fort of sanction to the reception of the positive assertions
of these gentlemen, involving the charge of imposition
on the part of Miss M'Avoy, I should not h:we thought
. - .
it necessary to have noticed either the pamphlet of .Mr.
Sandars, or the letters of Mr. E. Smith; as the former
seemed to hn>e been compiled partly under the in1lueuce
of some petty feelings excited by Mr. Hng·he;;, in a h:\.~ty
letter addressed to l\·fr. Sandnrs, and ag·ninst me, for are-
tort made to him, for •a paragraph in his letter to .\1l'.
Hughes, in which my nnmc was implicated.
Umv v
139
Mr. Smith's letters and remarkl, one would think, were
Intended to do away with the impression made by his
letters on this subject, in which were introduced some
experiments convincing to every one but himself. As a
pamphlet has a more imposing appearance than a letter,
I shall give Mr. Sandars the precedence, and enter upon
the examination ofhis proofs ofMiss M'Avoyseeing. As my
remarksnpon his pamphlet commence with the first page,
and as I have no other wish in criticising his opinions,
than for the purpose of elucidating the truth, I hope my
readers will, at the time,refer occasionally to the pamph-
let itself; or, if it cannot be easily obtained, to the Exa4
miner of the Day, a London weekly paper, the Editor of
which, has detailed almost verbatim, the contents of .Mr.
Sandars's pamphlet, as well as the letters of Mr Gough,
and some other writers upon this subject; and to the Liver-
pool Mercury, for the letters of Mr. Smith and others. In
the fir~;t page ofhis pamphlet, l\Ir. Sandarsassigns the rea-
son for intruding himselfupon the public, as depending ·
upon the puolicatioo of Mr. Hughes's letter, and his
answer to it. . He charges Mr. Hughes with having com-
mitted a breach of good manners, in giving it to me, for
pnblieation, as the communication was strictly private;
and he assumes to himself a right, which under certain
circumstances, mig'lit be his due, but which in this parti-
cular instance it would have been folly to bave allowed
him, because Mr. Sandars had·pursued a line of conduct
so totally deficient in respect to Mr. Hughes, that he had
clearly deprived himself of the pridlege the common
usage of society would have otherwise afforded him.
The simple charge, as Mr. Sandars bas elegantly ex-
pressed it," that your daughter-in-law can see, and tlwt
loo, with her eyes; aye, and as weU, or better tlzan I
ca!l," would not have been of_
much importance, as it was
ott
140
very evident to the persons present at the only examina-
tion of which Mr. Sandars had an opportunity of judg·
ing, that he could not draw any just conclusion from
his means of obsen·ation. Mr. Sandars, on the public
Exchange, in e\·ery company with which ·he associated,
and to e\'ery person who would li!'ten to him, declared,
be had detected iYliss l\I·Avoy as an impostor. Had Mr.
Hughes silently acquiesced in this charge of Mr. San-
dars, the public would hll\'e concluded it to be true; but
being convinced; as he was, of her blindness, it was na-
tural he should rebut it: and, if be did so, with a degree
of asperity displeasing to Mr. Sandars, he might have ex-
cused it, from its similarity with the conduct Mr. San-
dars pursued during the examination he made Into the
merits of this case, on the 24th of September, 1817.
Mr. Sandarsasserts, in the case of Miss M'A"oy, "that
blindness has been assumed, declared and believed, that
hundreds have flocked to see her; and under the admi-
nistration·of regular attendants, experiments have been
performed, in the most careless and unsatisfactory man-
ner: as the Narrative is very dear in price, and not db;-
tinguished for delicacy in its details, the circulation may
possibly not be very e:demive, it will therefore be pro-
per to give to the uninformed some account of the Lady,
and of the extraordinary powers with which she is said
to be endowed." From this paragraph, the natural in-
ference to be drawn, is, that a regular system was adopt-
ed in the examination!!; but Mr. Sandars, if he had ma1le
any proper inquiry into the subject, mu_
st have known
this was not the case. The true statement is, that hun-
dreds of per:sons visited Miss M'Avoy, made their own
obsen·ntions and experiments (often when. no one con-
nected lvith her was present,) and ga,·e their own re·
port of them. I was frequently applied to, to meet par-
v
141
ticular parties, ana my good nature often prevailed over
my conve':lience, to consent to the application; but,
surely this consent should not be assigned as a reason for
drawing the conclusion Mr. Sandars bas done. The
charge of carelessness in making the experiments must
apply to every one who did make them, and probably to
no one with greatE'r force than to himself, as it is clear
from the information of Dr. Jardine and others, that Mr.
Sandars's experiments were hasty and inconclusive.
When I recapitulate the principal experiments which
were made by the Rev. Thomas Glover and myself, I
think I shall be able to convince the public of their truth;
and that no better plan could have been adopted. to se-
cure the eyes from the impression of the rays of light, if
sight existed, and that in the mode of conducting the
experiments, the charge of carelessness was improper
and indecorous.
If Mr. Sandars meant to put a stop to all enquiry, he
could not have devised a better mode than the one he
has adopted, of charging me with indelicacy in the de-
tail of her case; bu~l am not aware of meriting so foul
an attack, becau~e I ha,·e related nothing, but what, in
the report ofa very curiou,.; medical case, it was necessary
to mention for the satisfaclion ofmedical.readers.*
• This charge certainly had nothing to do with the case itself, nor with the
proof~ of Miss M•Avoy's blindness, or the contrary; and I think "fr. San-
dars, in his cooler moments, will r erceive the impropriety ofhaving made it,
as he is not a medical man, and could not therefore be supposed acquainted
'19ith the mode ofdetailing medical cases.
I know a little more of Mr. Sandars now than at the time ofpublishing the
Narrative; and that knowledge will not allow me to suppose he had the
least wish of injuring me personally; although he must be sensible no charge
eould be brought against a professional man, of a more injurious tendency,
than that of indelicacy ; no:r would I willin,ly think l\f:r. Sanda:rs had done it
qtt by 0
142
Had Mr. Sandsrs wishe1l to enquire into the fact of
her blindness or the contrary, he should h11.ve marshalled
, the proofs on each side with equal candour; but hii
pamphlet is evidently written more with the intention of
influencing the public opinion than of elucidating the
trut~. For several pages he employs himself in quoting,
partially, sentences, and be then comments upon them
in such a manner, as to throw ridicule upon that part
of ~he narrath·e, in whi~h are contained circumstances
not easily to be explained, if Miss M'.Avoy bad the most
perfect ,-ision. He has however, given her credit for
some knowledge ofthe specific gravities of bodies, and be
o.t the suggestion of any professional man, who might take thiS mode ofassail-
ing me, when he would not have dared to do it more openly. 1\lr. S. might
probably be int!uccd to make the charge by the wish to promote the dissemi-
nation ofhis hints, and to deterioratethe sale ofthe narrati\·c; for, ifhi• pamph·
let were only read, the evidence in favour of 1\liss 1\l<Avoy would be soon
forgoUen, and these supposed proofs would have been substituted for the facts
in the narrative; and the public, not knowing the real truth, mightbeinduced,
from this cause, to take a decided part with her opponents. \Vhether the one
or the other supposition be florrect or not, can signify ,·ery little now, as the
charge has been made, and its t;tJ'ects upon the minds of the public may
have taken root. Whether true or false, its dissemination may have cast
odium upon me; for it has been somewhere 8Uid that a lie of a fortuight's
standing 1s as good as truth, for the purpose o( defaming the good name of
any indhidual. If the great body of mankind thought and judged for them•
selves, they would not so easily be induced to listen to the reporter of a tale
ofdetraction, or of ill-nature. Such conduct too often occurs, but as far as
concerns this charge, I am not consciou~ of having deserved it, for I ha,·e.
related nothing but what was necessary to the elucidation of a \'ery curiou•
case ; and this relation ought not therefore to have given otrence to any well-
informed female, as it. could not have been esteemed an infringement upon
true ddicacy; but where false delicacy and u~:>just prejudice are substituted,
it will be proper toeradicate them from a soil where it may be double~ if they
are ever the attendants upon real modesty and decorum. l\fontaigne has said,
"Nous ne sommes que ceremonie, Ia eeremonie nous emporte, et laissons Ia
substance des choses; nous nons tenons aux branches et abandonnons le tronc
,et le corps. Nous avons appris aux dames de rougir, oyants sculement nom-
mer ce qw'elles ne craigncnt aucunement a faire: nons n'osons appeller adroict
nos mcmbres, et ne eraignons pasdel~s employer a toute sorte de debauche; Ia
Um Ca 1 qJtiL: d 0
143
has insinuated that information might ha,·e been convey-
ed to her, how to distinguish the hea·f'ier and lighter
fluids. This insinuation is unworthy of Mr. Sandar~.
The account he gives of the transaction of the 21th of
September, 1817, when he visited Miss .M'Avoy, is so
very different from that given by Dr. Jardine, Mr. Tho-
mas, and others, who were present, that if I had really
impeached the veracity of Mr. Sandars's. relation, 1
should have been borne out by the testimony ofthose gen-
tlemen. Dr. Jardine informed me, when Mr. Sandars
tied the goggles over his face, he could not see any thing
until he raised his chin upwards, and worked repeatedly
the muscles of his face, in a very distorted manner, which
at last enabled him to see, so as to name the time of the
day by holding a watch highly ele,·ated, close to, and be-
ceremonie nous deJfend d'exprimcr parparoles les cboses llcites ct naturelles,
ct nous l'en croyons: Ia rai•on nous deJfend de n'en Caire point d'illicites et
mauvaises, et pcrsonne ne !'en croit."
I should have passed over this remark of Mr. Sand.'ll"s '1\'ithout notice, had
not some of my friends told me the insinuation had gone abroad; It had been
disseminated from party to party ; and thatsome professional men, instead of
rebutting the charge, had joiAed in the censure with those undiscriminatiili
persons who \lo not consider that the habit of assenting to every thing they hear
is dangerous andslippery. (" Jlla consuetudoassentiendi periculosa esse videtur
et lubrica.") They ought, indeed, to be cautious how they listen to tales
ofdetraction, lest they subject themsclresto be classed with the people Madame
de GenUs has thus described, " Dans la societe lcs satires les plus sanglantes
sont faite!l communiment non par lcs gens malins mais parlcs sots et les etour-
dis."
I wish the facts ofthis curiouscase to be generally known and dul)" appreci-
ated,and I have probably subjected myselfto the chargeofpedantry, by cov~r·
ing more carefully in a latin garb, those unavoidable sentences which have ca!·
led forth this discu~sion, rather than pre\·ent the most fastidious person from
reading the continuation of the case of Miss M•Avoy. I trust also, th~t
the candid, liberal and truly delicate fcmnle will''do me the justice to bE-
lieve, that in detailing thiscase I merely followed the customarymode adopted
by medical writers, and ought not, therefore, to have been chatged with offend-
Ingagainst those rulesof propriety, which sho.tld influence every man.
144
tween the window and his face, with his head turned
backwards! .I do not wonder at the goggles not fitting
Mr. Sandars, so well as .Miss M·Avoy, because his nose
is particularly prominent, and they were adapted exact-
ly to Miss M'Avoy's, not to Mr. Sandars's face.
Mr. Sandars acknowledges the goggles were once
fixed on, in so tight and oppressh•e a manner, that he
could not breathe through the nostrils: but he allowed he
was completely blindfolded! Might it not therefore be
probable that they did blindfold the person to whose face
they were exactly fitted, without producing great uneasi-
ness? Certainly, the eyes of the great majority who tried
·them were blindfolded by the same means. The asser-
tion he makes, that Miss M'Avoy's hands are decidedly
coarse, cau only be believed by those who ha,·e not ex-
amined them. She has seldom been employed in any
work about the house, likely to harden them, and I have
observed them more particularly, when her fingers were
obliged·to be covered, from their tenderneils, after she
had been engaged in getting up her small linen.
Mr. Sandars lays great stress upon her assertion res-
pecting the breath, the effect of which I ha\·e already
.explained ; and in observing the absurdity of the opinion,
he might have had the candonr to ha,·e supposed it
originated from the nature of her feelings, which were
not understood by herself, her medical attendants, or
the intelligent men who visited her. He objects to the
use of common sticking plaister as a mode of blindfold-
ing any person, because, he says, it is of a harsh and
inHexible quality; yet this sort of plaister is used to draw
the lips of a wound together, where it is wished to pre-
yent a mark from being visible, and it adhered so closely
in tb.e different experiments, as to draw the skin after it,
Umv ftf y
145
as it was removed from surrounding the eyes of Miss
lWAvoy. His objection to the use of Burgundy pitch
plaister, is conveyed in an insinuation against Mr. Tho·
mas, who applied it " at the kitchen fire," but he does
not add the word8 "they (alluding to these plaisters) ad-
hered as closely as possible," which concludes the sen-
tence; nor the following: " the silk handkerchief was
firmly bound over them." The rPsult of the experiments
made on this day, the 2d of July, in the presence of Mr.
M'Corquodale, was not mentioned, nor the additional
circumstance, that the skin was excoriated, by the appli-
plication of the Burgundy pitch plaister around the eyes;
a sufficient proof, one w~uld imagine, of its perfect ad-
hesion to the skin.
Mr. Sandars gives another proof of the eagerness with
which he seeks any information, however incorrect, and
details it against Miss l\1'Avoy, when he asserts it was
common to use the same tests very often, and that they
were kept in the house. The fact is, the parties who visited
her, frequently produced their own test:-, a shawl of
variegated colours, a glove, a riband, a ring,.a seal, or a
watch, were sufficient in the hands of any visitor, for the
test required. Those belonging to the house were very
rarely used by me: it also \·ery seldom happened that
the coverings of gold beaters skin were used twice. I
generally brought fresh pieces, when requested to meet
any party, and the persons present were almost uniformly
satisfied the application was made properly, and adhered
as closely as any thing could adhere. Those made use
of, when Mr. Sandars was present, were old pieces I hnd
employed before, and which had lost their adhesive qua-
lity. He lays great stress upon her eyes being cast dow~­
wards. It is probable he observed the eye-lid only par-
tially covering.the eye-ball, for if the eye-lid were closed
T
146
.
properly, he certainly could not ha,·e seen the eye cast
do,vnward; therefore the experiment was only commenc-
ing: bu~, ifhe bad been le~s hasty, he might have seen that
the pupil did not follow the downward motion ofthe head,
but remained stationary, or nearly so, as when sitting up
erect. The reason of this gold beaters skin not closely ad-
hering, was owing to its having (from being: used before)
lost its glutinous quality, which forms the principle of its-
adhesion. The assertion of her seeing is mere suppo·
sition.*
Jn page 22of his pamphlet, Mr. S. doubts the efficiency
of the goggles, gold beater's skin, and silk; but in a
note in page 31, he admits "that if the eye-lids be kept
firmly and honestly clo~ed, while the skin is drying,
they cannot, by any effort of the muscles be opened
afterwards, but who will believe the stories about the
difficulty of opening the eyes when the gold beater's skin
is taken off? this is a mere trick, experiment will prove
it most satisfactorily. It does not require any applica-
tion to the eyes, to convince a person he can ree, when
a . bye-stander thinks his eyes are shot; of course the
deception may be practised with greater or less facility
in proportion to the number and ·nature of the bandages."
The evidence of the persons who visited Miss l\'l'Avoy
'vhen these applications were employed, should ha~-e
been sufficient to convince any unprejudiced man, that
this mode of blindfolding was effectual. The eyes
were often examined with the grea1est circumspection
when the first covering was applied, through which the
eye-lids appeared completely closed: they were exa-
mined again upon the application of the second layer.
• Can it be possible, that any serious experimentalist would declare, from
a singlte C
J[!IIllination, uron such dou\ltful grounds, Miss M•Avoy could see?
U 11 Ccr ttz
147
They were allowe1.l to dry, and wh.oever attentively ob·
servetl them during the whole, or any part of the exa-
t
mina(ic,n, I am confident never saw the eye balls of l\Iiss
M'A\'OY move so as to derange the applicatio\1'. When
they were tal,en off, the skin all around the eyes was
drawn up with the gold beater's skin. ,The glutinous
matter of the goldbeater's skin, by insinuating itself be-
tween the eye-lids, causes them to adhere to each other,
and it is assuredly true it did occur whenever fresh pieces
were applied to Miss M'Avoy's eyes, so as frequently to
oblige me to make use of warm water to soften before
she could open them.* Mr. S. now tal~s of deception,
but how has he proved it in Miss M'Avoy, her immediate
friends, or her supporters? it is mere assertion on his
part, founded on the meanest principle of the human
mind, suspicion, more degrading to the liberal and in-
.dependaut man, than it may be usefnl to the selfish and
worldly minded. Indt>ed, the tenor of a great portion
of Mr. Sandars's pamphlet is to place e\·ery circumstance
in the most suspicious light, and hints are throw·n out
which have a strong tendency to efl'ect this purpose. Of
this nature is the following remark, " It was then pro-
posed that a piece of silk should be added to tile gold-
beaters skin, to which I did not object, till, on enquiry,
I fonnd that the silk Miss ?vl'Avoy nsed was in Dr.
Remeick's po.vsession: I then refused to have any
other." What Mr. Sandar's meant to infer from this
• Each of the modes adopted have been tried upon other indiv~duals, and
bavc for the most part effectually blindfolded them, and more particularly, if
their features were similar to those of l\liss M 4 Avoy. If her opponentswill not
believe a fact which is notorious. because it does not coincide with their own
opinion, it will be of little avail to reason with them; but it must plaiuly ap·
pear to every unbiassed mind, that their obstinacy upon this point, has been
carried sofar,as to reach the border ofabsurdity; for what can be more ab3urd,
than to say a person cannot lJe blindfolded by the diJI'crcnt means I have em·
ployed?!!!
148
paragraph, I cannot exactly point out, but it is proba-
bly that sort of insinuation which a man, who argues
from weak premises, but who is anxious to obtain his
point, will sometimes hazard, even at the expence of his
credit. I must imagine it had some reference to his
suspicion of imposition against Miss M'Avoy and her
friends, for he must be well aware no charge of this
kind could attach to me, and it would have been better
had he abstained from such remarks.
Mr. S. avails himself of any typographical or other
errors, which a few of the first copies of the Narrath·e
contained, and he sometimes plays upon my won1s in a
very amming manner, although he afterwards confesses
he understood my meaning by explaining it. " Vague·
· ness of assertion, he says, and impatience of scrutiny
characterize the whole conduct of unbelievers." If
this were not the mere parade of self consequence, and
of a~sertion, it mig·ht bf' retorted with more truth, upon at
least one of the unbelievers, as I am obliged to call them,
for on the 24th of September, Mr. Sandars's scrutiny was
'not receiYed as a proofofhis patience, and vagueness of
assertion, might with more propriety have been supposed
on his part.
Mr. S. should ha,·e·taken the Rev. Thomas Glover's
word, when he says, " having completely blindfolded
ber," at-least if he did not do so, be should have hesitated
about covering one of his own eyes with the gold-beaters
skin, and the other uith his hand only, as an experi-
mental test.
Dr. Jardine, allows he said the test was imperfect,
if the eyes were covered with only one piece ofgold bea-
ters skin and silk or crape; but when the goldbeaters
g
149
skin and velvet were applied over the first covering.
be could have no doubt that the eyes of Miss M'Avoy
were blindfolded. If applied properly, anti a little time
allowed for them to dry upon' the closed eye-lids, as I
have said before, either one or two fresh pieces of,gold-
beaters skin, will be equally sufficient.
In page 31, Mr. Sandars takes an opportunity of say-
ing that " from the omission of particulars so important
when he was present, it was natural to conclude that
there might be others of conside;able consequence; and
having heard a detail of the experiments at Wavertree,
somewhat different from that given by Dr. Renwick, I
applied to Dr. Trail, who had been present." Mr. San-
dars, in this, as well as in many other instances, appears
to wish to impeach my evidence, but such an attempt will
not a\'ail him with the public. In the Narrative, page
23, I have observed, "Dr. Jardine 'took notes of the ex-
periments upon this occal!ion, and I shall recapitulate
from his memoranda." Mr. Sandars, should not, there-
fore, have pointed me out as having detailed experiments
iifferently from what other-gentlemen had related, hut
have alluded to Dr. Jardine, who was oppointed to take
the minutel', and \vho bas, I have not the least doubt, ta~
ken them correctly.*
Dr. Jardine states, "it was remarked that at a little
distance there was the appearance of very imperfect
VlSIOD. The pupils contracted upon exposure to can-
dle light, but more slowly than is usual." Will Mr.
Sandars give less credit to Dr. Jardine, who took his
notes upon the spot, than to Dr. Trail, who expre~ed
• These minutes were taken in the presence of Dr. Trail, and under hi!
inSJ>ection
d
150
himself to Mr. Sandars, that he did not thitrk the.'l, al-
luding to the pupils, were examined with a candle.
Dr. Trail must be well aware that the note in the twen-
ty-third page of the Narrative, respecting the contraction
and dilatation of the pupils, was inserted in consequence
of his obsern'ltions at the Infirmary ~ates, when theNar-
rative was in the press. Dr. Formby and Mr. Latham's
names were not mentioned, nor did f know they had
given any opinion upon this point until Mr Sandan.'s
pamphlet wns published. I am certain n candle was
used for t_
he purpose of examining Miss M'Avoy's eyes,
during our visit at Wavertrce. This discussion is how-
ever of no material importance, except as it shews how
strongly some of my brethren leaned to the opinion, that
because the pupil contracted and dilated, the eye must
see. Practical men do not trust t9 this circumstance
alone, as a criterion of vision, and if they ha,·e imbibed
it as one of the dogmata of the schools, they are obliged
often, in actual practice, to have recourse to other data
for an explanation.
~fr. S. obsern~d at the Wavertree meeting that Dr.
Trail's minute inspection of the pieces of colom·ed cy-
lindrical glass. occasioned him great surpri.se, a.s he
fotmd that each rod wets composed of a different lutm-
ber of reeds connected together, and he supposed an
ordinary person, by a very little experience, would
have been enabled to distinguish them readily, by the
sense of tout!h.* Mr. S. declared the young lady mm:t
• Miss 1\t'Avoy's memory is generally very good, bul Dr. Trail probably
giYes her more credit in this instance, than she is entitled to : as the glasses
were very numerous, it is not very likely she could remember the one from the
other; and indeed the very pieces she named one day, were often broken again
bl;forethey were given to her onanother, for the purpose ofexperiment. The in·
151
have been aware of the assistance she derived from this
circumstance; and I cannot believe (he says) that, had
she really possessed the extraordinary powers which are
attributed to her, she would have condescended to bor-
row the assistance of such an aid, the detection of
which must necessarily excite suspicion of her ingenu-
ou~ness, and deprive her testimony of that weight other-
wise due to her youth and appanmt simplicity." Is
not Mr. Sandars begging the question when he reasons
in this manner?
The account of the second visit he paid Miss-
1WAvoy, which Dr. Trail has given to Mr. S. is partly
correct and partly incorrect. My statement of the
result of this meeting will be allowed by Dr. Brand-
reth and Mr. Bickersteth, who were present, to ha\·e
been impartially made. I do--not agree with Dr.
Trail, from the manner in which the sticking plaister
was applied, tbat a single ray of light could have p~tss­
ed to the eye, and I am convinced the repeated applica-
tion of the strips of sticking plaister, and of the pencil
to keep them down, were of no other use but to produce
that degree of agitation which more or less deprived her
of the power. 1\lr. Snndars asserts, in the name of Dr.
Trail, that he did not remark any particular agitation!
When an indiviclual is prejudiced too much in fa\·our of
any particular opinion, it too often takes from him the
power ofjudging correctly; and in this instance I thin~
Dr. Trail must ha,·e been thus effected, because Miss
:M•A,·oy's agitation was very edclent to me and to the
gentlemen abo,·e named ; indeed there could not be a
more striking proof gin~n ·of it than the drops of perspi-
-llinuation Dr. TraiJ·here throws out, respecting these pieces ofglass, and whu;h
I have marked in italics, would imply something very pecllliar in their
formation: yet, from the manner in which Dr. Trail ha• pointed them out, it is
clear he must know the mode in which they were usu:Uly made.
/
152
ration which stood upon her upper lip, and the clammy
feeling of her skin.* The remark of Mr. Sandars upon
my imprudence in introducing Dr; Trail, is one of su-
perogation, because Miss M'Avoy Lad been informed
the day before, of my intention of introducing Dr. Trail,
and if this bad not been the case Miss M'Avoy would
soon have recollected him by his voice The hour of
appointment on the 2d of July, was half·past one o'clock,
and I did not leave Mr. Hughes's house until half-past
two, when Dr. Trail had not arrived. Mr. M'Corquo-
dale and Mr. Thomas, were present, and !he went
through the different trials perfectly to our satisfaction.
In the continuation of the Narrath-e there is ll detailed
account of the experiments mude on the 13th of Octo-
ber, which will render it unnecessary to recapitulate
.them here. How far the friends of Mr. Sandars may
be influenced by his as;sertion that I have not given ''a
.plain um-arnished statement of facts" I know not; but I
think those whose opinion, upon a point of this nature,
is worthy of consideration, the impartial and unbiassed
will not agree with him; nor will they consider his
assertion of much weight, when he says the " Narrative
has not been dwelt upon with any indduous feeling, but
s'olely with a Yiew to the examination of the e\•idence on
which hangs almost entirely the fame of Miss l\1'Avoy :"
for if this were really the case, would it not have been
the duty of Mr. Sandars to ha,•e given a fair, not a
garbled statement of the facts in the Narrative. It was
• Dr. Gall has made the following observation in hi~ preface to the Anntomy
and Physiology of the nervous system, which in a certain degree will apply
here: "Mais il arrive tropsouvent que plus on devient savant, plus on s'ccarte
de la simple verit6. C'e>t ce que j'eprouvaL l\Ia conviction encore trop foi-
b!e s'ebranloit a mesure que j'acqucrois des connc.isnnccs, ou plutot, quej'ent
asoois des prejug~$. ·
Ur11 Ca
163
the investigation of the truth upon the whole case,
not upon detached parts, which was required. If Mr.
Sandars bad been guided by a more libei·al spirit in hi&
criticism, be would have received my approbation of
his intentions, and I should have supposed he was
making, as well as myself, an inquiry after the truth,
although the grounds upon which we sought it, might
not have been similar. Mr. Sandars asserts that a
majority of the profession ridicule the whole story;
but if this were the case, is it any proof that Miss
M~Avoy has not possessed the power I have stated? Is
it not merely assertion in them to say she can l!ee, when
they have either not visited her, or have made the ~light­
est examination into the nature of her case? Every
opportunity has been afforded, that they might convince
themselves of the (act of her blindness or the contrary.
Ought then the spirit of inquiry to be stifled, because a
few individuals have made a hasty examination into her
ca!i!e, when labouring under extreme prejudice against
her, and the powers she possessed? Ought not the very
circumstance of a single failure or two on her part, to
have 'stimulated them to further inquiry? more particu-
larly when her peculiar powers had been attested by
numerous individuals of the highest respectability.-
Would they have been content in any other case, with
the moment~ry examination of Mr. Sandars, as a proof
of the person possessing the power of vision. Indeed~
what stronger proof could be given of their extreme
prejudice against Miss M'Avoy, than the sanction
gh,en to -Mr. Sandars's pamphlet!' They have railed
at tb~ true believers, as they call them, for believing
what they have seen, and they have charged with im·
posture a female whose good nature and inoffensive
manners have been peculiarly conspicuQus throu,4:
lJ
L f
164
all the different examinations. Why have they done
thY?*
l\Ir. Sandars asserts "that the whole is a gross delu-
sion," and he founds this assertion upon his own ha~ty
examination of Miss 1\l'A,·oy; yet, there are many in-
dividuals of equal consideration with .Mr. Sandars, in
and out of the profe1lsion, who ha\·e examined her with
the ~trictest scrutiny, and have not observed any thing
'like deception in her conduct.t Much stress is laid
• Ifit were not for the manner iR which this busine&~s has been taken up,
I could not have believed that persons of a liberal profession, instead ofexa·
mining minutely into a subject of this nature, would have taken the" on
dit," of any individual; when they had the opportunity, by \'isiting !\!iss
M•Ayoy, of making their own observations and experiments. Yet this has
been the case, and although several of these gentlemen have not seen her, they
have joined, it is said, in the censure pas11ed upon me Cor Credulity, at e,·ery
tea-table where the subject was discussed. They ha\·e even gone further, and
have expressed their_
pity that I should have committed myself, which might
have the effect ofinjuring my professional business andreputation. These
expressions have, I am told, been so often repeated, that, if they have not al·
ready they may ultimately injure me, for " gutta cavat saxum non vi,
sed srepe cadendo." -
I might indeed have avoided this cens>tre by not having given to the public
the information I obtained by an accidental prof~saional atteftdance upon this
curious case; but if I had omitted to do so, I should hne felt I .bacibeen guilty
of a crime ofno small magnitude; for no circumstance canbemoreinjurious to
the interest ofscience, than the withholding offacts ofan extraordinary nature,
merely from the fear of being pointed at, as a credulous man. Personal fear
ofthe consequences to my professional reputation, hns nev.er yet pren:nted me
from stating what I believed to be true; and I must own I would rather &utfer
' the censure of illiberal men, than be indebted to them for p;ai•e, for" Qure
eet ilia laus, qure possite macello pcti."
t The opinion of the greater numberofpersons, who visited MissM<Avoysince
the publication ofthe Narrative, has not coincided with that of. Mr. Sandar~,
although sometimes they had been so far influenced by the reportsagainst her,
as to hesitate whether they should visit heror not: the very appearance ofl\lis•
M•Avoy testified more, in her favour in five minutesexamination, than all the
reports had influenced them to her disadvantage. Medical men \'rho had
oeen her, generally spea\:.ing, believed in her blindness, and some ofthem, who
'bad had ~pportunities ofseeing many alllicted with blindne<>s, were astonished
l!ny practical medical man could doubt it.
Umv D gtt" b
165
upon the ~ord " ·agitation," a·nd 1\Ir. Sandars expressei
a doubt, if it ever took place, but if it did, he would ra-
ther derive it from " the dread of detection," than fr~m
any other cause. If I were to judge of l\Ir. Sandars's
moti,•es, as he j~dges of those of Miss M'Avoy, it would
be easy to·retort upon him.
Mr. Sandars asks the following questio~: "Ts it un-
charitable to say, in this case, she was completely blind-
folded, that in the other she was not?" The best answer
to this question will be the asking another. How comes
it to pass, that in those 'instances where she was supposed
to see the object, she was not able to name it'? Her op-
ponents have, indeed, a decisive mode of answering such
a question ! They ~ay immediately, this is cunning on
her part! An easy mode of getting over this difficulty,
but not one that is convincing to those who have mi-
nutely examined her pretensions. The remainder of
page 40, respectiu,g bP.r breath, has been explained in a
former paragraph, and the circumstance of her telling
the hour through the_glass of the watch, by simply
passing her finger over it, was assuredly a fact: one
of those unvarni~hed facts, which as Mr. Sandars ob-
serves, has been foun~ to derange the most elaborat~
theory.
However absurd .Mr. Sandars may esteem it, the fact
was not less true, that Miss l\1'Avoy did state the posi-
tion of four men, one1
after the other, with her hand up-
on the window, and her back towards it. My situation
was a little in advance, but rather on one side, with my
eyes fixed upon her eyes, watching their every motion.
The Rev. Thomas Glover first stated a similar fact, and
I must own I was fully as sceptical, as Mr. Sandars, un-
156 \
'til I was either bound to believe it, or to doubt the evi~
dence of my senses.
Mr. S. endetwours to shew that she has proved too
much, and asks "What is the nature of this agen~y? If it.
be the sense of touch, she would be able to read in the
dark as well as in the light?" "admitting that her finger
~eaUy can see, light is ·declared to be necessary; but
what is the process of her readi~g? Her fingers come
in olose contact with the words, she feels them, and most
effectua.IJy obs~ructs the light. Ifinstead of touching the
words, she held her fingers at a sufficient distance to ad-
mit the light, then the theory would be supported by one
ofthe laws of vision." The light is not obstructed by pass-
ing the fingers over the letters; they move from-letter to
letter; light falls upon them; and might not therefore the
form of the letter or word be impinged upon the points
pf the fingers, as it would be impinged upon the retina, in
case the eye were concerned? It has been proved by se-
veral, but by no one more pointedly than Mr. Egerton
~mjth, that she bas read and named colours in a light
~her~ he, and probably no other person could read. I
have not ~~own her read or name colours, where light
was completely obstructed, but there are many proofs
of her naming colours, reading, &il. in situations where
sight could ha\·e no influence. Mr. S. says, " if she
doe'3 not distinguish colours by vision, she must by the
:;enl;e of touch; bnt what evidence has been afforded that
she possesses any superior acuteness in this perception ?'1
Is this th~ case that uo proof bas been given of the e~·
guisite delicacy of her touch? How does Mr. Sandars
11ccount for her distinction ofglass from the harder stones,
or tlu~se from composition? It must be feeling, or some.
thing analogous to it, or might it be owing, as the Rev·
~d~va~d Stanley has ingeniously sapposedJ to th~ in·
U /\- C I f
167
ftnence of caloric, which all bodies contain in a greatet
-or less degree ?'*
Mr. S. allows that superior acuteness in the oth~r senses
may occur, in individuals deprived ofsight, but "the in·
ference (be says,) is loose and unfoamded. Their in·
creased sensibility of touch was the growth of years, and
the result of habit; their fingers bad been put to school,
and by the assistance of the mind, became learned ;
yet, they were deadly ignorant in comparison of Miss
M•Avoy's." In the ina<tances mentioned, in the preface
to the Narrati"·e ; and noticed by Mr. Sandars in page 43
of his pamphlet, it-does not appear that their increased ,
~nsibility of touch was merely the growth of years, and
the result of habit. In the case of the lady attended by
~ir Hans Sloane, who was deprived, by the ravages ofthe
small pox, of her sight, hearing, and speech, the sensei of
touch and sm!Jll, became so exquisite, that she could dis·
tinguish the diffe_
rent colo~rs of silks and flowers, and
~new when any stranger Waii i~ the room. This lady
was affected with convulsions, during, and after the small
rox, for nearly three quarters ofa year; but this peculiar
sensibility did not result, appar{lntly, from any progres-.
$,il·e attainment. This lady felt severely any suspicion
pf insincerity aJ1d deceit, and when,she made tbe disco-
yery of any experirtent, to !lScertain it, which she some~
• I did wish to publish tl!e letter of Mr. Stanley, addressed to me upon this
llUbJect,as it would not only have shewn the opinion ofa sensible man, whohas
not·seen Miss 1\f'Avoy, but would have gratified the public with the ingenuity
efhisideas. It affords, however, another instance ofthe effects the positive as-
aertionsofheropponents have even madeupon this gentleman'smin~ whodoes
notwish his letterto be printed under the existingcircumstances of\be case. I
mustown I regret not having obtained his permission to have il'}Serted a copy
ofit; butto the public1t will be of less consequence, as nearly a transcriptof it
)!'as been'published in Tulloc,.;'s P!!Uosophical Ma~:~~z.ine, so~e time afie~ lh~
~~tive.cam~ ou~
U t- C • D1q d
•
158
times did accidentally; it always threw her into violent
, convulsions * In the instance of Cardinal Albani, in-
deed, the sense of touch was. brought to a most exquisite
state of refinement, whether progressively or not, can
hardly be ascertained : but his knowledge of the verity
and peculiarities ofmedals, could only be attained by long
practice, ~ssisted by the combining powers·of a mind ear-
nestly applied to this peculiar study. Except the lady
and Mis~ M'Avoy above mentioned, none ofthe persons
alluded to, have been afHicted with disease which acted
materially on the nervous system ; yet, in this case, very
peculiar effects were produced, and probably by cer-
tain impressions made upon thP- brain.
It is not necessary for me to make .any observations
upon Mr. Sandars's quotation from Voltaire, respecting
prodigies, predictions, and miraculous cures. Voltaire
was sceptical upon most subjects, and be \vould have
been so upon this, if he had only read, or beard of the
case; but if he bad seen it, as I, and others have done,
with no .moth·e but for the simple elucidation of the
!ruth, he would not have doubted the evidence of his
o~n senses, however he might cavil at that of other
persons. Voltaire, however, was fully s.ensible thata great
part of our knowledge is founded upon the authority of
others, and that the philosopher would ha,·e little to boast
of in this respect, if his information were derived only
from his own researches.
In pages 58 and 59, are mentioned some circumstances
respecting a gentleman of Wavertree, and an account of
• If' thi& fact be allowed, we cannot wonder that l\Iiss M•Avoy should be so
agitated by suspicions expressed, or by assertionsofimpesltion positively made,
sometimes in her bearing, (but often repeated) so as totally to incapacitate her
from givmg proof's of that sensibilit1 of touch, which had been at other timeJ
so conspicuous;
nv
169
his experiments. Mr. Sandars regrets he was not per·
mitted to state names publicly, but no person could
doubt to whom his reference alluded, as Mr. Latham'!'~
name is mentioned early in the hints, and be. is the wri-
ter of the first letter in thP- appendix to the Narrative.
Delicacy indeed, 'towards Mr. Latham, prevented me
from publishing in the Narrative Mr. Hughes's account
of his conduct and mode of reasoning on the subject.
I shall. merely state, Mr. Latham never menti~ned ally ,
iUSpicious circumstances respecting Miss M'Avoy, until ,
after the Wavertree meeting, when the opinion of the
medical men at that meeting was not in her favour, be..
cause she failed in many attempts to distinguish colonrs,
&c. as before; bQt when we consider she had been en-
gag·ed from nine o'clock until noon, in describing co-
lours, reading, &c. to different friends of Mr. Latham,
one ought not to be surprised she should faii in a great
degree, when the medical gentlemen visited her. In his
letter in the appendix he says he found her out in going
to \Ya,·ertree, in company with se~·eral ladies; yet she
received visitors under his sanction, and he allowed the
medical gentlemen to remain there, at least two hours,
without making one observation, respecting his suspicion
of imposition; a proof, I think at this time, he did not be-
lieve in its existence; so strong, indeed, was his convic-
tion, at one time, of Miils M'Avoy's powers, that he was
extremely anxious she should take money for the exhibi-
tion of her talent!!, or if this proposal \vere not agreeable
1o the family, that'she should exhibit for the benefit of the
Blind Asylum, at stated times, if her healtll would allow
of lt. I ha,·e rpason to think ah;o many of the friendi
who patronise :Mr. Latham; W~tild bear m·e out, if I as-
'!erted, he not only believed in her powers, prcdous to
the visit at \Yavertree, but during the ,·ery day of our
visit, when the Rev. :Mr. ··r;awton, his lad~ Mrs. Cart•
l.m c.;
160
wright, the Rev. Mr. Fisher, and the Rev. ~. Glover,
were present. 1 might also add, it is more than probable
he had not altered his sentiments on the Tuesday after
,.mr visit, "
when Mr. Walker, at tuat time re~idiilg in the
village, a man ofsuperior intellectualacquirements,strict-
ly examined her, and was astonished at the powersshe ex~
hibited.
Mr. Latham must be well aware she told different co-
loured powders, and a reddish tincture, behind her, in the
presence of the Rev. E. GJo,·er. If I am correctly in-
formed, 1\:fr. Latham knelt down, and put her hands
through the back of the chair, on which she sat. He
then placed different colours, as lilac, bright pink, and
blue, into-them~ and did not Mr. Latham lay a wager
with Mr. Glover, she could not do this? And did not
Mr. Glover desire Lim fo pay the wager which be bad
lost? Did not 1\lr. Latham call upon Mr. Hughes on the
Sunday following the Monday, when the medical gentle-
men met at Wavertree? Did he not give the following
opinion, or words tantamount to it?-" She cannot read
in the dark, notin a dungeon under g·round, but she read
to me twice, with so small a degree of light that I should.
caii it utter darkness." Mr. Hughes says, he compared
the eyes of Miss M'Avoy to those of a horse, a cat, or a
dog, which he stated could see, when it was so dar.k that
the human species could not see the hand, when put up
to the face_
. Is Mr. Latham's recollection so bad that he
has forgotten every ~bing, in favour of Miss M'Avoy;
or is it wilful forgetfulness? He certainly found great
difficulty in recollecting any of these circumstances, when
I applied to him for a statement of what he knew ; al·
though my application was considerably earlier than that
ofl\Jr. Sandars. The accountgh·en by Mr. Sandars, and
detailed by him in pages b9, 60, & 61, of the Hints to
Un 11 Call
161
Credulity, has surprised me, as it is so different from that
ofMiss M'Avoy, Mr. Glover, Mr. Fisher,and even ofMr.
Latham, during the period of her visit to Wavertree. Mr.
Latham, in order to give still greater preponderance to
these assertions, clos~shisevidence upon ibis affair, with
a moral lecture, in his very best stile, if not dictated
by Mr. Sandars, urging the criticaltenure of her life, and
entreating her to give up her pret~nsions, because he,
Mr. Latham, was convinced she could see; and he was
confident she evinced no agitation whatever, but was to-
tally insensible to the charge. I am not surprised at this
event, because I can depend upon the simple declaration
of .Miss l\1'Avoy, that sh~ never heard it: and, if we
consider how improbable it is that Mr. Latham could
descend to give a rude lecture to a helpless female, im-
mediately under his protection, and almost a stranger to
him, without a friend to take her part, I really think it
is more probable, l\liss M'A''OY is correct, than that Mr.
Latham has committed so great a solecism in urbanity and
politeness.
Mr. Sandars makes an unjustifiable attack upon ~iss
M'Avoy, in stating Mr. Latham's kindness met with a
most unpardonable return; when it is well known Miss
J
M'Avoy visited him, not frmn any wish of her own, but
at the repeated request of Mr. Latham she was induced
to comply with it. The obligation \Vas to Mr. Latham, who
wi.~hed, not to Miss M•A,r~y, who complied with his wish.
Mr. L. attempts to throw all the odium upon Miss 1\I'Avoy
and her relatives: he has charged them with obligations
they do not feel they owe him, and he has placed himself
in a situation, by his conduct upon this occasion, which,
when truly explained, will not add to his respectability.*
• Mr. Latham, I am told, boasts much amongst hisPatients that he was the
cut to find Miss M•Avoy out as an impostor: how will he managewhen it ap·
X
162
In the Narrative there is a letter from Mr. Jones, to
whom I applied for information, of the circumstancei
which took place at Wavertree, during Miss M'Avoy'i
visit, in which he states one fact in her favour, viz. the
naming (unerringly) the colours of flowers and lea,·es,
which he placed in her hands behind her. He qualifies
this positive fact by the relation oftwo other experiment~,
in these words " another trial was with a cross·barred
white and layfock handkerchief, ,·hich I presented to
he1·, in the same manner. Not being able to describe it
with that quickness that clwracleri.~e.~ her w:uctl discri-
fJlinalion, she nppcared embarrassed, and expr~sed a
wish that sufficient time might be allowed ; that, of course,
was granted: I then took a chair and sat facing her, aftP.r
turniogthe-
handkerchiefrepeatedly(perhaps for the lapse.
of ten minutes) she suddenly exclaimed" I cannot find it
out; threw it upon my kuee, andlurniug her eyes dolrn,
wldclt before «:ere fixed 11Jneards, and not covered by
~my bandage, she darted a look allhe hanclkerchief, took
ifquickly from me, and placing it behind Iter, erclctim-
ed '' I have been too hasty." It was then, cmd not be-
fore, thctJ the colour of the l1andkerchit>f uc&.Y defb•ed."
"Mr. Latham having one mornin~. whilst prosecutin~
his experiments, borrowed a book from me, called the
History of England, wherein was a frontispiece represent-
i.ng KISG JonN, signing .Magno Charta, the figures In
which were variously coloured, I wa;; gh·en to under-
stand by him, they were correctly described. Having
occasion to refer to somo part iu the book, I went up
5tairs, the sam~ day, and enquiring of a young lady, '"'h•
pears ~fi&s M•Avoy is no Impostor, but that she ha~ been blind from the time
fpecified to.the present moment. I have no doubt be will acknowledge the er-
ror he has committed and honourably pay the wager of a dinner andwine~
\\'hlch had been decided against .him upon this point, by two iJil.lwtW G£11···
tj~lllell• Viele 1\lr. Bcrey':o letter Ul tbe Appcnlli.J,
J v
163
wM above 1titb Miss M'Avoy, in tho room, whether she
knew where the book had been placed, she replied in the
negative. Miss M'Avoy immediately got up, and went
directly to the spot where it had been placed, by Mr. L.
without her knottJledge and singled out the very identi-
cal book, that had bt>en placed between four others on
the chimmey-piece. I feel fully convinced that she had.
received no previous intimctlion, respecting the siluatitm
where the book lay,' as Jtlr. L. declared that he made no
mention of it to any one. This I record, not as a trial,
but as a circumstance. that I was an eye witness to, aml
- which afforded me a sufficient"proof, and has ever since
impress~~ upon my mind, that she was guided to the
place not by the sense of touch, but of vision. I have
now, Sir, written all the fads thatcame under my own ob·
eervation, ttninfluenced by any other motive than the de-
claration of tlte lrttth, and if what I have related is at all
interesting, they are Yery much at your service." I have
copied the particular parts of this Letter, and have made
use of italics to mark to the reader the most material
points, that he may judge of the facts related. Hc will,
I think, consider the experiments with the leaves and
flowers concealed in Mr. Jones's and given into Miss
l\'l'A,·oy's hands, (fixed upon her back,) the colours of
which !She "unerringly described," to be one of those
stubborn facts which l\Ir. Jones or Mr. Latham cannot
g·et m·er by any !!nbsequent experiment, unless it haYe an
equally good basis. I wish I could attribute to forget-
fulness, or to the influence of his Master,* rather than
to a deficiency ofcandour, the circumstance of l\lr. Jones
only giving one experiment with a white and lilac hand-
kerchief, on this day, when he must, if his memory ha,·e
not entirely failed him,be aware this very wh!te and lilac
•Mr. Jones, at thie tim«Y, was an Apptenticc with l\lr. Latham.
164
~andkerchief was so faded, that he himself, declared he
did not think it a fair experiment. Several other ha~d­
kerchiefs were presented to her, the colours of which
she correctly named. A female, Jam told, who was pre-
!ent when these experiments were made, calling upon
Mrs. Hughes, told her Miss M'Avoy did not, at the time
above named, tell one handkerchief: the natural infe-
rence to a common hearer, would be, she did not tell
any; but upon Mrs. Hughes observing her daughter had
said she had told several, and only missed this white and
lilac handkerchief, the female allowed it, but still per-
sisted l\liss M'Avoy could not name the colour of tlli8.
one. Why did Mr. Jones keep bacJ< the account of
the other handkerchiefs, in his letter? He had already
declared this .fact in tbe presence of Mr. and Mrs.
Hughes, Mr. Thomat', and his own uncle, at the bed-side
of l\liss M'Avoy, when he ,·isited her.
The public will note in this, as in the other letters,
Mr. Sandars has published the very strong bearing they
all ha\'e to point out the quick manner in which she
darted looks or glances at tlte object; but I think the ge-
nerality of persons who have visited l\liss M'Avoy, will
agree with me, this assertion is carried to too great an ex-
tent. Mr. Jones commits himself, in attempting to prove
too much, when he asserts Mit's M'A,·oy received no pre·
vious intimation respecting the situation of this book. b
Mr. Jones authorised to say it so positively, because Mr.
Latham made no mention of it to any one? Might not
Miss M'Avoy have obtained the information in any
other way?
Mr. Snndars observes, there is a moral evidence sup-
plied in the letters and communications he has received,
utterly destructh·e of the physical wonders displayed by
l\liss 1\~:t\voy. It has been well observed, he says, that
mv Itt D !l tt ro
J65
"No testimony is sufficient to establish a miracle, unless
the testimony be ofsuch a kind, that it! falsehood would
be more miraculous than the fact which itendeavours to
establish." !'And I 11hall leave it to the world to decide,
whether the evidence to the miracle in question is not .
fairly impugned." This the public will have an oppor*
I
tunity of deciding DP.,OD, when I comment upon the let*
ters in question•.which,- as being of the most important
nature to the point at issue, I have left to the last, that
no extraneous matter might interfere with the due con-
siderntion Mr. Sandars and .others, have thought them
:intitled to. In page 63, Mr. Sandars allows no consid~
ration of interest, or any other unworihy motives could
influence Miss M'Avoy's supporters, but he admits it is
no impeachment of their integrity, to doubt the accuracy
of their observation. The supporters of Miss M'Avoy's
integrity, are certainly,obliged to Mr. Sandars, for this
admission, although they cannotbut observe, the assump*
tion rather to be of too arrogant a cast for Mr. Sandars,
with any degree of propriety, to make, whose means of
observation were too ilight, in this case, to constitute
him a proper judge. Mr. Sandars observes, it is more
easy to belie"·e one witness, who exposes the deceit, tban
to believe one hundred who have attested facts, contrary
to nature. I will ag-ree with him when deception is proved
against Miss M'Avoy; but convinced, as I am, of Miss
1\I'A,·oy's blindness, I am confident, as far as man ought
to be confident, that Mr. Sandars and the opponents of
Miss M'Avoy, are in error; and I have no doubt the time
will arrivewhen such proof may b~ laid before them, which
will bring conviction to their minds, and I trust they will
then be willing to acknowledge it.*
• Jt"certainly has bc:en proved that l\li3s 1\I<Avoy bas named colours, read,
&c. insituationswheruight could have noinfluence; and from the observation•
which have be~ made respecting the state of the eyes, andfrom theirinsensi•
166
The opponents of Mi~s M'Avoy act upon the advan-
tage they have over her supporters, in the circumstance •
of the peculiarity of her power~, which have no parallel
in history: and they think it easier to deny the existence
of such powers, than to believe in their reality. Is this
the reason~ng of philosophy or of bigotry? " Nonn~
pndet physicos hrec dicere?" "Sed quod crebro videt, non
miratur, etiamsi cur fiat, nescit, quod anti! non vidit; id
si evenerit, ostentum esse censet."
In page 64, Mr. Sandars says, " as to the motives by
which she may be actuated, th;1t is a point not W!ry im-
portant, but I firmly believe, sP,e has more speculation in
her eye than is revealed." "Her friend, the Docto1·, with
his ex-parte-questions unfortunately makes her confess
"she feels gold and silver to be more pleasant than brass.
The han·est of credulity is not yet ripe for gathering,
but the labourers are in the field, and they sow not with-
out hope. If Miss M'~-\xoy had openly taken money
'from the,first, her credit would have been extinct long
ago; there are, however, many modes of receiving and
granting favours. I understand it is agreeable to the
Lady to make presents of W?rk-bags and other trifles fot
which she recehres presents in return." I am sorry, on ~Tr.
Sandars's own account, he 111hould have so rf'adily lis-
tened to reports disadvantageous to Miss M'.l\voy, and
have published them in his pamphlet ~rithout better au-
thority than he is in possession of, H!id he made any
bilityto the application ofthose means which are commonly used for the pur.
pose <>f ascertaining ifblindness really exist, it is all but demonstrable, that
her eyes do not possess the power of vision. And if we should even be onlJ
!rlided by Ciceros's rule, that" non numcro h~£Cjudicantur,5ed, pondere,"
are-perusal ofthe evidence detailed in the Narative, or in this continuation
.-·ill justify her supporters in their belief; for probability is the only basi$
upon which opinion can be formed, when the pooitive certainty of the ~~
~ not attainabl•
m C I D
167
_inquiry, he would have found Miss M'Avoy was not in
the habit of receiving any recompense for the little ba·
gatelles she gave away; nor did she ever receive money
except that before mentioned, from Lord Lilford, which
was returned to him; and I belie\re no presents were re-
ceived, but those I have specified. I know reports ofthi~
kind have been circulated, but I believe them perfectly
unfounded, and if they were traced to their origin, they
would have been found to have arisen from mere malig-
nity of mind in the propagators. Let the libellers ofher
integrity produce the proofs of her having accepted of
money upon any other occasion, M a return for her
courtesy in admitting visitors.
The letters published by Mr. Sandars, are six in num-
ber. There is also an account of a meeting on the 13th
of October, 1817, by two gentlemen, whose names ant
~riven ; a copy of each is inserted in the Appendix.
No. I, is the letter of Mr. Turmeau, in which the Rev.
John Yates's comments, upon Mr. Sandars's conduct, ia
mentioned slighlly. He merely states, the circumstance
of the,goggles being tied over Mr. Sandars's face; but
he says nothing of the distorted actions he--made to ena-
ble him ,to 8ee the object. Mr. Turmeau allows 1\lisi
l\1'Avoy wasp~rfeclly blimlfolded withthe goggles when
he placed them over her face, but she could not name a
colour, read, &c although she had before told all the co-
lours upon a card, given to her n·hen she was uncovered,
except ct yellow, which she said was lilac. When the
card was presented to her, with its plain side upwards.
and her hands were placed under it, she could not name
a colour. The room was filled with company, and the
heat, he observes, was very oppres:>iYe. Three or four
other pnrtio.i had beeu there the ~ame morning,' n.·hich
a
1~8
will sufficie.ntly account for any failure of Miss M'Avoy'i
powers. Mr. Turmeau allows the whole party were ve-
ry angry with Mr. Sa9dars; ofcourse, Mr. Sandars's con-
duct could not ha,·e bee? very correct. She read two
lines correctly, when covered with the gold beaters skiri,
but did not succeed in any e,xperinentlll when the goggle$
wereput on.>X•
Will Mr. Tnrmeau say if gold-beater's skin be properly
applied to the eyes, ihat Mr. Sandars, or ony other per.-
son, can ~ee through it? Mr. Sandars only applied it
to one eye; yet Mr. Turmeau positively says Mr. San-
dars could see through that eye. Is it not aS likely he
saw through the eye which was covered only with hill
hand? He speaks of the warmth- of language of Mr.
Hughes, which was certainly very excusable, when Mr.
Sandars's provocation was considered. The only cir-
cumstance, however, which induced me to notice this
, letter, nro~e from a positive assertion of i\Ir. Turmean
that, in taking leave, after Mrs. Hughes had said her
daughter was extremely ill and was up t-tairs, when de-
scending the steps, he accidentally turned his head, and
to his surprise, saw Miss M'Avoy standing at the
· kitchen door with an infant in her arms. He. says he
had no sooner caught a glimpse of her, than she .slipt
out of his sight, as if wishing not to be obsen·ed. 1 had
heard this report before, and upon reading l\Ir. Tur-
• When the goggles have been applied, and she has named colours, &c. her
opponent5 say she can see down the sides of the nose. In this instance she
did not succeed in naming any colou,r, and considerable stress islaid upon this
point. Why should this be done? i\[r. Turmeaumust certainly know she had
toid rolours, &c. when the goggles were tied on at other times. I have ob-
•erved her opponents generally to find fault with the covering in which shebaa
succeeded• and I have sometimes also known them to recommend another
which they afterwards objected. to, when they found it did not prevent hw
from giving 12roofs of her power.
n C D
169
mean's ietter, I was struck with the positi\'e manner itt
which he stated this circumstance. I inquired of Mrs;
Hughes and Miss lVI'Avoy, whether the assertions of Mr.
Turmeau were correct or not. Mrs. Hughes observed,
she was so much put out of the way, that she did not
know to whom she gave the child, but she thought it
was given to Miss D.*
:Mis& M'Avoy informed me she felt herself so nll\Velt;
ihat she retired into the next house with Mr. Thomas,
during the period that several persons were left in the
uninhabited house_, and did not return to it on that day.
Mr. Thomas confirms this statement of Miss M•Avoy;
and assP-rts he returned into the uninhabited house,
1Vhilst Mr. Sandars was trying his experiments ; ofcourse,
Mr. Turmeau, who from I:Jis own account, left the house
after Mr. Sandars, must have mi;;taken the female into
whose hands the child was delivered. A considerable
time had gone by, when I inquired of Miss D. if the child
had been given to her,_
and she aniiwered in the nega-
tive, although she observed she bad frequently held
the child before.
Sonie :time afterwards, I ohserved to Mrs. Hughes
how unfortunate it was she did not recollect to whotri
she had given the child on the 24th of September. At
the moment we were speaking of the circumstance, a
female of the name of Norris, entered the room, to in-
quire after the health of Miss M'Avoy, andl bearing'"
the circumstance mentioned, she instantly declared the
child had been given to her on a day she did not recol-
lect, but when a large party was assembled in the next
,• As this Lady did not wish to have her name inzerted in 1\Ir. Turmean'•
letter, I have abo r;iven the initial only.
v
170
house, and at 'a time when Mrs. Hughes was very much
flurri~d at something which had taken place. Upon be-
ing asked where she was when the party was going
away, she said she was in the kitchen· looking forward,
as the different ~ersons went away, and she so far con-
firmed Mr. Turm'eau's statement, by saying sbe retired
behind the kitchen door upon one of the gentlemen
'looking back.
Mr. Dale, it'seem~; was induced to call upon Mr. Tur·
meau, npon the subject of his letter, and they visited
Miss 1Vl'Avoy together, when this female was present,
and Mr. Torme~u, in a lett_
er, in the LiverpoollJlercury,
dated the 22d of ·January, 1818, offers to 'swear to the
person he·saw, being Miss 1\f'Avoy, and not any other
person. He has made use of some ill-natured expres-
sions,'which I wish·he had avoided, as they appear more
the result ofwounded feeling, than ofperfect conviction,
and which would not impress a'ny one more strongly in
favonr ·of his assertions. Mr. 'furmeau speaks.of1fis in-
dignation being excited, at the appearance bfthls female,
and the attempt ~ade to entrap, and impose upon him.
He then proceeds to shew the contrast between this wo-
man and Miss M•A,roy; he speak11 of her as twice as large
, in person. She appears: he says, to be between fifty and
sixty years of age, w'ith the strongest marked physiog-
nomy he e\·er saw'; very·dar'k complexion; and one eye-
ball turned completely in. In the latter view, I may
observe, which he had of this female, hll was iu the same
room; but in the former he was descending the steps at
the house door, a considerable distance from the kitchen.
I ha\""e not examined, particularly, Mr. Tnrmeat~'s eyes,
which have a peculiar cast in them, but from my own
'ObstJrvatiou, when I have met him in the street, I ne\•er
t~wught his si~ht very acute, and at the distance he wa~
U Ca
171
placed from this female, I scarcely think he w:ould be
justified in swearing so positively to her person, and still
less so to.her complexion. In height, she is abou~ the 8th
of an inch taller than Miss M'Avoy; the difference of
bulk was so trifling, it \Vould be hardly discernible. I
state these circnmstances,more positively, because I was
induced, from Mr. Turmeau's account, to measure the
height of the parties in the presence of Dr. Hannay
and of Mr. Thomas. A little variation might arise,
from the circumstance of Miss M'Avoy being supported,
on each side, when she was meas~red, as she was unable
(o stand upright, but I think, could she ha,·e stood up,
she would have been fully as tall a,s Mrs. Norris.. Mr.
Turmeau mentions as a further proof of his accuracy,
that he could, if he thought proper, give the name of a
lady, who declares she heard Mrs: Hughes hi~ her daugh-
ter go into the kitchen and take care of the child ; and
she went accordingly. Soon after \his, he says, be saw
her in the ~ssage.. · '
~am assured, also, that Mis.s, ~l'Avoy never had the
child in her arms during that day, for in 'the early part
of it, she was engaged ii;t getting u.p her own linen, an<!
afterwards she was too unweU to holcl it. Con&idering
the agitation of Miss l\'I'Avoy, it is not very likely her
mother should desire her to go into the kitchen, nor up
stairs, as was mentioned in the first place, as there was no
fire in tl,le kitcheJ;J,_DOl;' a chai_
r up stairs to sit down upon,
the house belonging to Mrs. Hughes, and not being te-
nanted at this time What Mr. Turmeau's motives were
for not informing Mr. Dale of his previous acquaintance
'Yi~h ~~iss :p. he doe~ ~ot explain~ al~hou,gh he says the
parties discoyere.d t~is af~envard,s, ~&yo~ wil~ o.bserve tn
the Sequel?*
• What this Sequel was, does not uwar in th~ ietter published in th~ Li-
vcr~ll\1ercury.-Vide this letter in the Appendix. · " '
u IVC I
172
The Seond ~etter is from an anonymous person, and
.Mr. Sandars says H it is presumed that this gentleman's
testimony proves she has not a very exquisite touch,-
From the error committed in reading the line, a very
strong presumption arises that she got it by rote, pr~..
viously to co\·ering her head, and that her memory
betrayed her." The gentleman does not say the book
was open before her previously to her head being co-
vered ; but in the beginning of his letter he says the
goggles were applied. 1 must of course, suppose they
were applied properly, and I think Mr. Sandars prema-
ture in making these remarks, He commits himself, when
he S!lys, "b~r memory betrayed her," because when she
named a few out of several pieces of coloured glass, at
Wavertree, he gave her c~edit for an excellent memory;
put now it appears to suit his purpose better to say she is
deficient in memory. Would it nothave been morecandid
to have supposed she might h&ve read t:tJe line wrong,
as a person who bad good sight, but who read hastily?
If she really did see, it is not likely she would make the
mistaketpat thisanonymous writer ~~ghtexpose her. "A
_piec-e of crimson and white paper was put into her band,
with the coloured side down, after feeling at i~ for some
time, she decided !twas black and white. Onafterwards
l10lding ~he paper up to the light~ the crimson colour
!lad ''ery much the appearance of being black."'*
The failure in the third experiment may be accounted
for by the sudden evanescence of the power, and hel"
• This is a ~nrious circumstance, and it puts l,lle in mind of Mr. Hughes,
formerly a pupil of our Infinna!J', but now upon the l\fadras establishmcn,t,
having rcmnrke!l that sb,e said a dark blue silk was black, and when he held
it up to the light, ~~ 41PilCJr¢ quite black. At another time she also named
yellow to be a component part ofa gown, which was ;not kno\m to have any
particle ofyellow in it, nor could the party to whom it belon~, believe it,
\Inti! the gown "'as ript and the yellow shreds c\rawn cut. H01Y are tl-.eae cir-
~uytstall:ces to 9e explaine(\? · . .
t.Jn v t,;
173
success, after the paper was withdrawn, to its return.
At any rate the cunning sometimes attributed to her,
was-not very conspicuous in declaring it so immediately
after the paper was withdrawQ,
The fourth experiment can only be explained upon a
similar principle with the third ; and although tpe letters
on "
the seal were sufficiently large for a person with any
delicacy of too.ch, to have told what they were, yet this
writer might have supposed that the same causes which·
produce the evanescence of the power, might have acted
in this instance totally to incapacitate her from naming
even a letter, which might be easily felt by another.
The third letter is from Mr. J. T. Koster, which re-
lates to an examination which took place on the after-
noon of the 23d ofSeptember. I was present, and have
remarked in the Narrative, that the experiments made
on that day were g~nerally successful, and the parties ·
thought the coverings sufficient for the purpose·of blind-
folding her. The coverings were two pieces of gold-
beaters skin, the .first sewed upon fine crape, and these~
cond upon velvet, whichwere applied in rotation,afterthe
eye-lid had been properly closed, having been wetted in
the usual manner, and held upon the eyesuntil they were
dry. Mr. Koster insinuates, from her naming the co-
lour of Mr. Earle's hair, after Mills M'Avoy returned in-
to the room, which she could not do before she)eft it,
that it was owing to his head being placed within the line
of vision, and that the intermitting of what is called the-
young lady's faculty, together with the alleged necessity
of a free communication between her breath and the
object to be distinguished by the touch, are extremely
convenient." Mr. Kos~er may be co~rect, when he states
~4at the hat ~pss M'Avoy first put her hand into, be-
'
174
longed to Mr. Earle, but I did not observe it. I recol~
lect, however, Mr. Wm. Earle's hat was presented to her,
which in consequence of his wearing powder, was so
soiled that I returned it to him, as Miss M'Avoy had
more difficulty in distinguishing colours, reading, &c.
wh~re any greasy substanc~ intervened. \Vhilst giving
Mr. William Earle his hat, a gentleman presented his.
own (a new one) t11rned up-side-do~n, and she read the
makers name, but could not make out the German text
which f~llowed. This might probably have escaped .Mr.
Koster's notice, or he would certainly have_mentioned
it.* There is nothing else very material in this letter, as
what Mr. Koster has noticed, is very similar to th~t ~
have stated to have occurred &t different periods.
'. The fourth letter is that of. Mr. Worthington. I
was not present at this examination, but Dr. Jardine
informs me it was his opinion the goggles were no~
tied on properly. From th.e appearance of ~r. \Vor.-
thington's face I haye no doubt they would haYe blind·
folded him completely; at least a,U who have tried them,
with similar faces, allow them to. l,H,we. done so. Mr.
Thomas also informs me, she was '\'·ery much agitated
during a great part of this examination, so that her pulse
beat at the rate of 160 pulsations i~ tb.e minute, and that
.when the paste board was used, she was surrouoded with
lookers on, and one genth~man placed himself very near,
,and immediately opposite to her face, so that it would de-
prive her of the power, by producing that peculiar op-
pression any near obstruction to the breath almost imme-
diately occasioned. Most of the other circumstances io
• Mr. Thos. Myers, the Editor ofthe Mercantile Advertiser, who was pre-
sent on this day, ~rfectly· recollect~ thi~ cx~riment having-
been made, an~
Us' sue~.
175
Mr. Worthington's letter have been so often mentioned in
tbe Narrative, that it is unnecessary to dwell upon them.
In this letter is al!!o noticed, the- previous direction of
the eyes with a rapid andinstantaneousglance at the ob-
ject, and when they were not directed lo it, she did .not
name the colour. Mr. Worthington acknowledges the
eye did not blink when he rapidly darted his finger to•
wards the eye. He allows also that the pupils contracted
as much as those in healthy eyes, but he thought rather
more slowly. I have been informed at the time, Sir G.
R. Collier left the house, he e:xpressed him;;elf generally
satisfied with the result of the experiments; but afterwards
it has been said, he altered his sentiments, although he
did not visit her again. A number of stories have been
propagated at this gentleman's expense, by one of those '
h1dividuals who derive their support from the publication
of the miseries and wickedness of their fellow-creatures;
terminating with their last dying speech and confession.
But as t)lese are often prepared for the purpose, without
any certain foundation of their truth, so I presume has
this gentleman's name been brought in for a similar end,
the profit of the printer, or publisher, or of both.
The fifth letter is that of the friet14 of .Mr. Bradbury,
and the facts contained therein, have been stated by Mr.
Bradbury, in the presence of Mr. Egerton Smith, Mr.
Bywater, and Mr. Rushtont the late partners of Mr. E.
Smith. The public mustjudge of this letter, and I should
_
wish the numerous individuals w.ho have witnessed Miss
J\l'Avoy's powers, would declare their sentiments of it.
I am confident the great majority of them will say they
. never saw her attempt to do any thing of a similar nature.
That .Mis:S M'Avoy n~ight occasionally appear to look
towards the object, sh.e described, is very probable, and
y.ery natural; but that she drew the cloth from h~hind
176
her back, rapidly glance at these gentlemen, gate at the
cloth, restore it to its furnier situation, before she named
H." credat Judreus Apelles non egu."ol(o
Is this gentlentnti not aware that e~pef'imerits had been
made in tbe presence of \·ery many respectable witnesses1
with the most satisfactory result, when the eyes were co-
vered, ».Swell as Uncovered. Am I~ or are these witnesses
to give up our united opinions, formed upon repeated
examination, to Mr. Brndbut)"s positive a!'settion unsup-
ported by any other evidence? Satisfied as J and other
persons, capable ofjudging, are, of Miss M'Avoy's com-
plete blindness, what must we think of Mr. Bradbury1'
who e\·idently visited her under extreme prejudice?
The sixt~ letter is that of Mr. Lutwyche. Itappears to
be artfully drawn up, but a few comments upon it will
shew how far it is entitled to the ~Onsideration Mr. San•
dars and others have gh·cn to it. I shall notice the most
prominent pllrts. It is somewhat curious that Mr. Lut-
wyche never publicly stated the result of experiments
made in February, 1817,upona subject ofthis importance,
until called upon, by Mr_. Sandars, because, if Mr. Lut-
wyche believed in his own experiments, he \vas doing in-
justice to himself in not detailing them before, and to me
also, if I relied on their verity, as it would have prevent-
ed me from troubling the pubiic, with a perusal of the
Narrative; and wouid ha-re saved me a good deal of la-
bour and of expense. The story of the Valentine ap-
pears improbable to me, who have so often seen her trace
different figures upon calico, silk, paper, snuff boxes,
• l\lr. Jones i1ns stated a similar circumstance with the lilac handkerchief,
and this a.ssertion would appear as the prototype of Mr. Bradbury's, or vke
ven.a.
Umv altf
177
&c.; and who never yet heard her name a figure until
her fingers had passed over it. So many evidences
might be brought forward to prol"'e this point, that I ·
think it totally unnecessary to make any further com-.
ment upon H.
How far Mr. StP.el's instrument~ made of pasteboard,
would answer the purposP of interrupting sight, and yet
admitting the communication of the fingers with the
mouth~ the public will judge, when they read the para-
graph in Mr. Lutwyche'sletter, containing an account of
it; for it certainly appears _
to me rather to prevent·the
breath from communicating with the fingers; but as furt~er
experiments have proved the opinion of Miss M'Avoy;
respeC'ting the influence of the breath, in the distinction
of colours, &c. to be erroneous, it will not be necessary
to dwell upon this part of the subject. The account of
the watches offers the strongest obstaCle to the veracity
of Miss M'Avoy; but I fear the eagerness with which
these gentlemen have attempted to prove M.iss M'Avoy
an impostor, bas been the ceuse of making them the
dupes of each other. Mr. Lutwyche certainly does not
rely un tbe force of hi~ own e~periment, or he would
never have wished for a second interview; of course,
holding the opinion I do, of Miss M'Avoy's blind-
ness, I should suppose this letter was manufactured
for the purpose of misleading the public. Th~ story of
the handkerchief rests upon mere supposition; but that
of the shreds of silk is a master-stroke! Whoever saw her
literally tear the silk, but Mr. Lutwyche and his friends?
Hundreds, I may say thousands, ha\""e heard her name
colours she had felt, but not one, except this gentleman,
and his friends, ever saw her rub the silks so as literally
to tear them, or to "handle them with a roughness, which
z
l (;a
17$
would rather tend to ascertain if tl~ey were hard or soft,
than to reeeive the rays .of light aad colour." All who
have seen Miss ~I'Avoy distinguish colours, will be con-
vinced that this is a forced account, and not worthy of
belief; and yet this "trifling circumstance which must
not be passed unnoticed, and which tended more than
any other circumstance, to shake our faith," Mr. Lut-
wyche says, " and to rank us amoug the unbelievers,"
could not be comparable in any degree, as a proof, to the
very posith·e assertion that she told the time of the day
in one watch, which it was supposed she had, !'een,instead
of the watch, which he profes..~d to place in her hands, but
which bad beP.n exchanged in lransiltt. Co~ld there
have been a comparison between the two facts, a;; stated
in Mr. Lutwyche's letter? In rclatir,g the. tale of the
shreds and severe rubbing of the silk Mr. Lutwyche has
overreached himself, and by endeavouring to prove too
·much, has proved nothing. Nay, he could not get over
the fact of her telling the_colours behind her, without ~he
·aid {>f the shreds, and the se\"ere rubbing compleated the
'climax! I might indeed, ask ~Ir. Lutwyche, how Miss
l\-1'Avoy managed froiD; the want of this aid, when the silk•
-were·inclosed in glass?«<
In the Mercury of Nov. 14, 1817, is a letter of Mr.
Egerton .Smith, addressed to me, wherein h~ quotes;
$om'e obsen·atloos with which I prefaced the introduc-
tion of his letter in the Narrative, as tending to impress
up~n the public mind, that there was a.discrepance be-
• Mr. Sandars has given some particulars of the circumstances which occur-
red on the 13th of8eptember,llli7, 'vhichare merely hinted at in the 1mpage
ot.the lfarratiye. My accoupt,of ~he examination on that'<lay, will probably
be found more accurate. fee pages five and six of the continuation of the Cnsc,
and compare it with the account of the particulars related in the Hints toCre-
dulity, pages 36 and 37 ; or in the Appendix to the continuation of l\1i~s
lli'Avoy'a Case. Ece the letter&..in the appcndi~ '
0
1?'9
tween his testimony and hi!! conviction!!. HoWeTl!r
justly I might·have done so, I had no intention of mak-
ing any charge against .Mr. Smith, but what was inevi-
table from his request that 1 would insert his letter in
the appendix, as it was necc~sar'y for me to assign· a
reason for introducing it there, when I had before made
the requisite quotations from it. Mr. Smith, by the pub-
lication of his letters and paragraphs in his paper, had
fairly laid him~elf open to the im·estigation ·of them,
and as the narrator of this case of Miss M'A,roy, 1 had
an undoubted right to make those extracts from them
which had a relation to the subject, and to give them
as evidence at the bar of the public, who were capable
of appreciating their ,·olue.
Whatever 1\Ir. Smith's sentiment!! were at the time of
his visiting Miss M•Avoy; whatever 'tliey have been
since; or whether he has Leen influenced or not by the
opinions of other persons, is of little consequence, but
he must certainly allow me to judge of the result of his
experiments; and that judgment coolly and dispassion-
ately exercised, prevents me from re-tracting the opinion
I had before formed, that they afforded very strong evi·
dencc in fayour ofl\Ii><s M'Avoy. :Mr. Smith says he con-
fined him:-:elf to ihe scrupulous relation of facts, that he
saw her decipher ,·ery minute print and other objects, in
a light wherein he cculd barely discern the leaves of a
book. With a bnndage O\·er her eyes, through which,
when applied to his own, he could not t~scertain the dif·
ference between moon and midni~ht, he saw the young
lady determine accurately the colour of cloth, riband,
glass, and other substances: ai)d also peruse writing and
printed books. All these unaccountable facts be saw
with astonishment, and recorded with fidelity: but it cer-
tainly does not follow, because he could not compre-
D 'c y M o of
180
bend liow they were in reality·effected, he must neces-
sarily_believe they were the result of touch.
. .
He is a little at a loss to discover how I could either
by implication, or more directly press into the already
crowed ranks of the believers, a person, who in the very
letter to whi~h I ha:d ref~rred for my proofs, had ex-
P-res~ed himself in the following heterodox style:-
·~I could not account for what I had seen, except on the
supposition that Mi:is M'Avoy was n!)t blind; but had
some secr~t mode of discerning ~n object." And again,
·~ J never could divest myself of the impression, that the
eye was in some way or other concerned in these mys-
teries> l\lr. Smith leaves it to my ingenuity to explain
how such an unequivocally expressed distrust of the fa-
culty ascribed to Miss M'Avoy, can have more weight
with the public in persuading them into a belief of the
sa~e faculty, th&n his bare assertion.of his doubts found·
ed, a_
s I presUI:ned_, upon the opinion of those individuals.
I gaye in proof of Miss M'Avoy's very peculiar powers,
these very experiments, and nothing has been advanced
l>Y. Mr. Smith, but mere supposition t~ contradict them.
.l'he ~pinion of other persons, Mr. Smith allows, bad no
small share in confirming the suspicions he wdforml!t
enl{!J"Iained aJ.ter his fint or second visit. So far he
.therefore assents to the correctness of my thoughts upon
.the subject; and many persons who have read his detaU
.ofthese_e~periments consiqer them, &.s I ha\•e done, and
.do not hesitate to · say he bas committed himse.lf, by
_
yielding to these opi,nions, against the evidence of his
,own observ~tions: for what proof has Mr. Smith given
that Mis!!,l\l'A\·oy bas such very acute sight, supposing
_
she really coold see, as to know the colonr of objects, to
. read words, &c. in a light where be could barely discerQ
• t~e lea.ves CJf ~boo~~ '
•
Umv f ·
181
Mr. Smith, i_ndead, in another part of one of his papers,
(The .illercury) endeavours to qualify his sentiments 1\f-
terwards, 'by graduaiing the sight ofdifferent individuals,
and be wishes to diminish his own power in this respect,
while he increases that of other per8ons; and at last his
defence ofhimself becomes so weak as to oblige him tocall
to his aid the surprisingstories ofWanley, and the 'vonders·
of Muncbausen.·Mr. Smith, as w~ll asall her other oppo-
nents, would have been at a loss for arguments, if it bad
not been for the mistaken opinion of Miss !\i'Avoy, re-
specting the influence of her breath; but as they have
no better ground from which they can make their attack,
they are determined to maintain it as long as th~y can. I
shall gi\"'e them all the advantage of the error, but. the
foundation has been sapped, and it will soon be untenable
even by the Jl!Ost hardy veteraqs in their opposition
against Miss ~'Avoy's pretensions.
However preposterous it may appear to Mr. Smith,
it is nevertheless true, that " with her hands behind
her, upon the window opposite the communion end of
St. Paul's Church, she told the figures of people passing,
and the cplour of the clothes, &c." 1t is no less true
that she named a purple flower, behind her, a Jig·ht yel-
low, a marygolq, and a ~mall pincttshion of red cloth,
under a white h&ndkerchief laying upon her knee, when
her hand was introduced under the handkerchief."-
Mr. Richard Rathbone, Mr. Barclay, their Ladies, Miss
Reynolds of Coalbrooke Dale, and other persons were
present when this experiq1ent was made; but this was
not more surprising than her declaring the colour of one
of the Claude Lo~rain~ glasses, which Mr. Smith, Mr.
, Nicol, and others could not distinguish, until they held it
between their eyes and the sun, when l\liss M'Avoy's as·
sertiori was confirmed.
·.
t
...
182.
,On the 12th of September, 1817, Dr. Taylor, late of
Bolton, was present with another gentleman, the Rev.
John Yates and his daughters, and the Re~·." Thomas
Belsham. I have said upon this examination, her pow-
ers were deficient, although she named several coloured
Bilks correctly. She read very uncertainly a few words,
and told the time of the day in a watch, and she named
again the time of the day in two other watches, which
were not exactly alike. ' -
Mr. ~mith does me but justice, in supposing I w<Juld
not wilfully suppress any fact which might militate
against my theory, as he expresses it; but Mr. Smith
ought to know the Btatem~nt in the Narrative origin~ted
from the facts which occurred at the time, not from a
bias on my part to any particular theory. He mentions
Dr. Taylor having pushed a stick tO\\'ards Miss M'A,·oy,
but I did not observe, ul though I recollect the circum-
stance, with what intention he did it, nor did I know the
deduotion he drew from it, until I perused Mr. Smith's
letter. 1 must own I do not very well comprehend it
now, thirty-two months after the occurrence took place.
It seems an extraordinary circumstance Miss ~l'Avoy
should attempt to discover and actually name the nature of
the metal upon the upper end of a cane, l\"hen the ferule
was presented to her! It.would give me no proof of her
discernment, very little of her cunning, and still·tess of
her power of touch, to suppose for one moment she did
not know the difference between the ferule of a cane and
the top of it. As one proof, however, that the examina-
tion of this day did not produce a l'imilar effect upon the
rest of the party, as it did upon Dr. Taylor, I shall quote
a part of a passage taken from the Medical and Physical
Journal for Nov. 1817, which must allude to this exami-
nation. It is as follows, " satisfactory as the Rev. l\lr.
183
Glover's account of Miss M'Avoy must be to all impar-
tial readers, it cJannot be amiss to add that it has been
confirmed by a com·ersation with another Reverend
Gentleman, long and well known for his Philo!Sophical
acquirements, the steadiness of his judgment, and his
correct method of conducting his experiments." If I
am rightly informed,.this gentleman was the Re,•. Thomas
Belsham, who, I believe, was present only on this day.
The tale of Mr. Bradbury, as well as the observations of
Mr. Lutwyche and his friend&, I have already commented
upon. I must candidly confess there is as little reason for
supposing Miss M'Avoy to labour under the hallucina-
tion of imaginary blindnQSS as by any comments, explana-
tion, or ridicule to do away with the f\>rce of Mr. Smith's
own experiments. Peregrinator, to whom MrSmith alludes
as the person propagating this opinion, has adduced some
other notionii in a posilive manner. He says, " I do not
believe that she is blind; indeed, I may say it is demon-
strable she is not blind ; for in the present state of her
eyes, it is as impossible that s?e should not see, as that a
room with open windows should be dark in the day time.
There is no outward apearance in the eye, of opacity of
the cornea, or of the disease of the chrystaline called cata-
ract; and the effect of an increase or diminution of lig·ht
in producing a contraction and dilatation of the pupil,
will convince any one at all acquainted .with physiology,
that she is not affecte~ with " gutta serena," or, in other
words, that the optic nerve has not lost its sensibility. I
am surprh;ed thatthis lattercircumstance has not had more
weight with Mr. Glover and the other scientific men, who
have paid attention to Miss M'Avoy's case. I ha,·e•yet
to learn upon what principle this contraction and dilata-
tion takes place, unles~ it be from sympathy between the
iris and the retina; by this means, then, if I be not incor4
rect, we have the power of deciding beyond dispute, that
18.4
in Miss M'Avoy's case the optic nerve is sensible to ligbt1
in .!ome degree at least, and as she does not acknowledge
this in any degree, it is certain either that she wishes to
impose on the public, or that she is imposing on herself.'~
Had this writer examined attenth·ely .Miss M'Avoy's
eyes he would have paused before he made the above ob-
servation; and if be had seen many eyes afflicted with
.gutta 'serena, he would,hn.,·e known that contraction and
dilatation did sometimes occur in these cases, but were
not esteemed by physiologists as a certain proofof yisjon.
The wager Mr. Smith offered to bet, of twenty guineas,
with the different additions made to it since, he must have
been well aware, could not have been a~cepted, because
l\f'iss M'Avoy's health, at the time, prevented the trial of
any experiments which might distress her, from the ob-
struction given to her breath; and the rPpetition of the
offer should ba,·e been a\·oided as it could not produce any·
satisfactory proof against her; even if it had been tried.
This offer has ·been ,·ery often alluded to by the oppo-
nents of Miss M'Avoy's p9wers,and her non-acceptance
of it has been brought against her. The very appearance
of this mask, of which there is a print in the lJfercurg,
will convince any one, who has seen the effect a band
placed before the mouth had upon Miss M'Avoy, that
it would produce those sensations so distressing to her,
nnd deprh·e her of the power.
The following paragraph, taken from the Mercury,
will show the temper of some of her opponents-" In re-
ply to a very general verbal inquiry whether any notice
had beeu taken of the proposal, we have only to state
that in our absence from the office, a gentleman called
to say that Miss M'Avoy would accept the challenge,
provided ~he- might ha,·e the mask in her posses-
sion for a few days previous to the decision; as we do
Unt C D CJtt
185
twt know the individual wlto made this e~trczordinarg
proposal, was authorized by the Lady or her friends,
to deliver such a message, we shall ttbstain jrom ang
comment for tlte present." Mr. Smith goes on to pro-
pose that two masks shall be provided, exactly similar;
one of which shall be kept with her as long as she pleases,
on the condition that she shall exhibit in the other. .The
Editor of a Newspaper allows himself great latitude; he
caR assume his own form or that of another person, in
making any assertion which may suit his interest, or gra-
tify his spleen, but I must own I gave Mr. Smith credit
for better feelings, than to suppose he would condescend
to make his paper the vehicle of assertions so insulting to
an oppressed female. He must be well aware no gentle-
man ever went from Miss 1\'I'Avoy to offer such a propo•
~al, and his attempt to foist such an opinion upon the
public, will be received with the regard it merits.
Mr. Smith informs us, that the publicis already in pos-
'
session of the ingenious device of Sir George B. Collier;
who is said to have practised such whimsical grimaces and
distortions of countenance, fac~ to face with the lady;
that she could not resist the effect, but fell into a most
immoderate fit of laughter! Is this information derived
from Sir George B. Collier, Qr do~s it originate with
Mr. Bradbury's friend, or with the publisher of certain
memorable events, who may have made- Mr. Smith the
vehicle of conveying these malignant aspersions? I
have asked several persons who were present at this
examination if this account were true; but it seems
they had not obierved any of these grimaces Sir
George B. Collier bad the merit of making. Mr.
Smith says, "we have also heard from a very respecta-
ble and uot very circuitous quarter, that oQr h~roine bas
been seen repeatedly dressing her hair, and adjusting hP.t'
A a
Umli Ca 1 D g 1ze by Mt ro of
•
186
dress in the ordinary mannerofa young lady at her look-
ing glass." I merely ask Mr. Smith for his proofs upon
this point, and he surely will not hesitate to give up his
authority for this assertion.*
l ·am not aware who is the author of Veritas, who ad-
·'\·ocates the cause of Miss M'Avoy; but I do not agree in
'Mr. Smith's remark to " audeamus alteram," when he
'says, that our notions of candour and justic~ do not ex-
actly square wit~ his, nor can he reasonably expect we
should insert the letter!! of Veritas, upon tbi!! subject,
"when they hav-e already been published in the Liver-
pool Cow·ier." The letters of Veritas differed from the
present opinions of Mr. Smith, and th~ opponents of
Mi:.s l\I~Avoy; but ifl mistake not, Mr. Smith had pledged
himself to publish the arguments on both sides of the
question; and it would only have been fair, if he had
published the l~tters of Veritas. His politeness to the
Courier, the opponentof his political and other opinions,
upon 'this occasion,.is not a little suspici~us, but I have
no doubt the Editor of that paper, will properly appre:
ciate his forbearance, in not publishing what has before
appeared in the Courier. Mr. Smith, does indeed, ex-
• During the period when this assertion mu&t have been made, it is weU
lutown ::.\fiss 1\l'Avo~ had no ~air to dress, from her head having been 10
repeatedly sha,·ed for the application of blisters; nor am I aware she ever had
recourse to the use of false curls for the purpose ofadornment. I must there-
fore -set this assertion down as one amongst many others, which have been
llressed up fro: the purpose_,oft}jrowin& more obloquy upon this injuredfemale.
Many other circumstances have been mentiono:d.in that manner,-whicb would
produce an €tfcct upon minds which ID-e liberal and good, to the disadvantage
of 1\lis~ 1\l'Avoy; but when they are lluly comidered and explained, they will
be found ~o.have ha~ no oth~~ foundation than in the imagination ofthe incli·
viduals who propagated them, or from that miserable propensity which so~
persons have of examining at tlleir own partial ~r, the comluct and c:haraner1
of their neigbboul't!<
U 1 11 Call D q1t1 ed y ll
187
cuse himself for dwelling more upon the facts adduced
by the Anti-~I'Avltes, because be conscientiously be-
lieves lhe lrzith to be on their side!
'fhe Writer who signs himself with a hand cut off at
the wrist, in the Mercury, and who is said ~o be Mr.
Smith, produces objections against the plain and simple
~tatement of two ladies, whose habits of rigid veracity,
and cautious inquiry, are well known; and whose names
' were left with the publisher of the Salurda,q's .ildl'er-
liser.* I have inserted a copy of this, among the other
letters. This writer doubts the accuracy of these ladies,
and attempts to apologise for the rudeness of his doubts
_by saying·
" 'Vhen alady's in the case, .
"All other things of course give place."
'l'hn public will judge of this letter, and as it comes from .
_ persons unconnected with Miss M'Avoy, it may have
that weight which the above writer denies it. The ex-
periment has often failed, bu't it has frequently succeed-
ed. The eye-lids of 1\Jiss M'Avoy were sometimes very
..
tender, and if pressed roughly, she suffered so much
pain, that it deprived her of the power. 1t has been cus-
tomary for the opponents of Miss M'Avoy to propose
tests, and when they have succeeded, to object to them ;
so it has been in this case, and we find this writer pret'er-
ing the application of the whites of eggs, gold-beaters
skin, as more compleat, than the application of the fingers
to the eye-lids, and l~ss liable to the alleged objection.
I have now given a genera~ and rather elaborate
account of the proofs adduced by Mr. Sandars and
others, and the public will be better able to judge how
•See t!!e lettl;r signed T. S.M. in the appenJiL
•
Umv Jli D gt tzea'
188
far the basis, upon which the opponents of Miss l\J'Avoy
have endeavoured to arraign her integrity, is well
founded and correc.t; and whether the m~tivea which
have actuated them in the prosecution of this subject
have been pure, not tin('tured by prejudice, not bi;tsed
by any other motiye than the simple elucidation o{ the
truth.
Lmv Ca lfJ t ze b
•
OF
.MISS M'AVOY'S CASE.
J SHALL giv~ a general account of the powers of Miss
M'Avoy, and recapitulate the principal facts in theNar-
rative; the names of several of the witnesses who ob-
served them; the experiments of Mr. Egerton Smith; of
the Rev. Thos. and Edw . Glover, and of a few other in- "'
di"Y\duals, which are corroborative of those I have stated.
. On the .28th of June, 1816, when Miss M'Avoy reco-
vered, in ~orne measure, the use of the right hand and
arm, Mrs. Hughes gave her a stocking to knit, which oc·
copied her attention and relieved her from that total
want of employment her illness occasioned,
On the .2d of August, I was induced to call upon Miss
M'Avoy with Mr. Thomas, who told me she had become
very expert in sewing. I found her in the act of sewing,
which she appeared to execute with considerable neat-
ness. She put into my hands a stole, which she had as-
sisted in finishing for the Rev. Edward Glover, her con-
fessor, to whom she was under very considerable obliga-
tions for his kindness and attention during her illness.
Sbe also made several neckerchiefs, and a frock for ber
Ur tV l.: /if D (Jittzed by Microsoft
190
little si:'lter, and darned a pair or black silk gloves with
great neatness. Itappeared from the account of her mo-
ther, Mrs. Hughes, that before Miss M'Avoy was able to
leave her bed after the firit attack, she complained of
weariness and anxiety, particularly in the night, which,
from not sleeping well, appeared long and dull. Miss
M'Avoy requested her mother to give -her a nMdle, that
~he might try to thread it. The first time she made four
attempts before she succeeded in threading it, and these-
cond time she threaded the needle after two trials. She
then asked for sewing, and her mother gave her a coarse
towel. She was \·ery awkward at first, and this awkward-
ness was much increased by not looking at her work, aad
ller eyes seemed to be wandering in every ·directioo,
about the .room, but where they ought to be. Her mo-
ther desired her to fix her eyes as if she were looking
intently at her work. Miss M'Avoy endeq.voured to
follow this atlvice, and applied with so ·much perseve-
l'ance, that -she l'ncceeded not only in this point, hut
sewed much better than evc:>r she had done before her
deprivation of sight.~ · Mr. Thomas and I particularly
• After the "ravertree meeting, the doubts expresged of her pc;wers, pro-
duced an unexpected effect upon her general system. If she were asked to
sew, particularly ifstrangers were prestnt, sbe would attempt it, but was of·
ten obliged to lay down her work, as ifincapable of proceeding with it. If no
notice were taken of her, she v.•ould resume it, and go on •ewing; often with
her eyes directed in mch a manner that she could not see the work, if her vi-
eion were perfect. 'Vhen the catehing or oppression in the breathing, or the
convulsive motion of the diaphragm comes on, sheis frequently observed tode-
sist from sewing, and knitting: arid will ofter not be able to resume her em-
ployment for a whole day, or even for a longer period. Itwould appear, there-
fore, that the ben.cimg down of her h~d upori her work, is the mere effect of
habit, and the occasional incapability of proceeding '~ith it, must arise from
that nervous irritability e:~;cited by the slightest cause, and which is the moet
peeuliar concomitant ofher case. This supposition is moreo\·er, confirmed by
the quality of the 11·ork; that which ruis been done while these symptoms were
moremoderate, or absent, being extremelywell executed,whilsttheother pnrt~
·l~ill be better or worse done, in some proportion to the degree ofviolence with
U. IV Caltf ' DIQitU: b
191
examined her ~yes, exposed to the light of a candle, as
near to the eye as possible without burning her, bot
without observing the sl~ghtest contraction or dilatation
of the pupil, or the least sensibili~y in the eye. 1 ha'Ve
frequently, since this period, thrown my band suddenly
towards her face; have pretended to dash a pointed
penknife at the eye; and have often applied the pointof
the. finger in a quiet and steady·manner, as-
.near as possi-
ble to the pupil, without observing the slightest sensa•
tion in the eye. Mr. Thomas assured me he bas more-
than once p.;t his finger upon th~ cornea itself, which
then appeared insensible; but when he touched the eye..
lid or eye-lash, she was instantly-sensible of it. I have
sat for a considerable time attending to her sewing, but
apparently indifferent about it; and during- these visits,,
I have examined her every action as minutely as P,Ossi-.
ble, and. I have been satisfied iiihe could not l!'ee. In
threading her needle, it sometim~s required only one ef~
fort, but often three or four, before she.was successful. It
·was curious to observe her when, by accident, the point
of the thread was bent: she would try to thread the nee.o..
'
dle three or four times, and ifshe did not succeed, .would
put it into her mouth, and .bite off a:part, or take herfin-
ger and feel whether the thread were straight or nof.
More than once I have gh•en her the needle.with the
point upwards, ~ben she accidentally dropped it: she
attempted, but finding, after a fe\v trials, that she could
not thrcad,it, she woilld put her finger upon the needle
and feeling the point, would .turn and thread it : once,
also, I broke the eye of a•needle in d ~nwing the threaJ
.11·hirh they affect her.. This ,I proved in the dark ~ne eYening. I gave her a
rravat to hem, which 1 had marked fOI" the purpose. She threaded her own
.needle. The first part, which she hemmed, was very well done, but the latter
very indifferently, as the catching in. the breathing ramr on duriug the time
wit.h COnjiderable Yialence.
Un tgttt
·192
hastily out; but was not aware of the eircumstance until
Miss M'Avoy had made several attempts to thread it; but
failing, she felt the eye with her finger, and told me it
was brok~n, which; upon examination, I found to be the
case.
In the .general business of the house, she was more
activ~ than ever she had been, assisting in making the
beds, attending upon her half brothers and sisters, and
was cheerful and agreeable in h~r manners to ever'j
body about her, and more particularly to those who
visited at the house.
.
I shall now give an account of the manner in which
it is stated Miss M'Avoy found herself possessed of cer·
tain powers of an extraordinary nature, and the relation
of which excited the curiasity as well as the criticism o(
many individuals. It was very early in Sept. 1816, that
her,stepfather, Mr. Hughes, was reading a few pages in
a small book belonging to one of his children, in which
a history was given of the life of St. Thomas a Becket,
not very favourable to his general character. He men-
tioned it to his wife and daughter, and said be recollect-
ed having read once a very different account in another
book. Miss 1\'I'Avoy told him she bad, before she was
taken ill, seen an account of his life in a book enti·
tled the Lives of t.he Saints, and, if she had the book,
could point out the place where it was. The book was
put into her bands, and, in turning over the ·leaves, she
pointed out the place, passed her fingers over it, and
read a few wordl!. In a jocular manner Mrs. Hughes
asked her if she could feel the letters with her fingers.
~She said she.felt the words she bad read, and would try
again if her father would give her a book. A number of
a folio bible, of tolerably large print, was gh·en, and she
Umv Cal f D g1t1 ed t l'
193
read several verses to the great astonishment of her f~t·
ther and mother. Upon hearing this account, I was in-
duced to visit her again with Mr. Thoma~, and took con-
siderable pains in examining the eyes; but we found little
or no alteration in their general appearance,'except that
the pupil was not quite so much dilated as before ; but
the light of a candle appeared to have no influence upon
it. We fmmd her father's account very acc~rate, and
that she really could read by the application of the fin-
ger to the letters, with considerable fluency. As it was
probable any other person, who had not the same oppor-
tunity of judging ofher blindness with Mr. Thomas and
me, might think it possible she could see, I thought it
right to bind something over the eyes, and I made Uie oC
a Manchester cotton shawl, which went twice round the
bead, crossed the eyes, and-was tied at the back of the
bead, as firmly as she could bear it. I placed in_her hand
a number ofthe Bible above mentioned, and she read very
correctly one verse of a chapter in Genesis. I then re-
quested to have another book, which happened to be a
volume of the Annals.of the Church. I opened it, and
she read to me ~vera) lines, with the alteration in a pro-
per name of only one letter, which, upon being desired
to read over again, she corrected. I then turned to a few
lines of errata, and she' read them correctly, only read-
ing the letter I. as an I and a dot. The mode she follows
is to place her fingers upon the book, and when she feels
the letteu, to prooo.ed from the beginning to the extre·
mity of the W{)rd, and back again until she names it, and
so on to the next word. She often makes use of the fin-
gers of both hands, particularthe fore fingers; and when
they are in good order, !he will rc~d from twenty-five to
thirty words in half a minute.
On the following d$y I mentioned the circumstance to
Bb
J94
a fr~end, wbo was an1ious to see a phenomenon of this
kind, and he met me in St. Paul's Square. Miss M'A\'OY
ag~in read 0\·er to us a veTse in the Bible, a few lines in
the Annals of the Church, and the title page, mottos, and
several lines in a I2mo edition of Grahame's Sabbath. I
placed her fingers upon a blank leaf, and desired her to
read. The attempt was made, but she said she could
not feel any letters. Her fingers were then placed up~n
another leaf, whichshe declared was also blank. l then
desired hE'r to feel the upper partof the leaf; she did so,
and said she·felt something, but it was so confused she.
could not make out what it was. The fact was, a lady's
name had been written in the,book, and when I took it
from my library, I scratched the name out with a pen, so
that it was not distinguishable to the eye. My friend
brought ·with him a French assignat, of which it is mo~e
than probable Miss M'Avoy before did not even know
'the n:'lme. She read it over, and mentioned the lii1es
' upon it as distinct from the plain paper, and the colour
of them, which was black : she also decyphered· the ad·
dress and post·m!J.rk ofa1etter recei~edby that morning's
post: she named the colours of the coats, waistcoats, and
pantaloons of the gentlemen present with accuracy. She
gave a correct account of a few cards, one or two of
which were put under a small t.able, placed before her.
A little boy, the half-brother of Miss M'Avoy, brought
in severjll pieces of broken glass, of different colour!l.
She told very readily the different colours ns they were
-given t~ her, and, ·hi a fe\~ pieces, where the glass had
not been perfectly fused, she named the colour of that
part which was perfect, and of that which was imper-
fect.
She distinguished the different colours of .silk, of cot-
t.on, 'Or of wool, and tha brighter aud more tiriJ the co-
Un by'
195
lour, so much greater 'is the pleasurable sensation it af~
fords. If they consist ofmany colours in the s~me piece,
she will point out each colour, and t_
race tbe line where
it terminates. If the silks are of that kind called shot
silks, she will tell the colour of the ground, as well as the
intermixture. Ifthe different pieces are besmeared with
oil, or any greasy substance, she cannot so easily distin-
guish the colour; but if it be nearly faded, she will point
out where it is faded or where it is bright. She can dis~
tinguish the colours of the paintings ofenamelled or '•ar-
nished boxes, will trace the outline of the figures, and
will generally state the subject of the painting with a de-
gree of accuracy which is surprising. At times, how-
ever, this feeling is suddenly lost, and after describing
colours; reading, &c. with great n~cety, she will declare
she cannot tell the colour, or will say it is black.
. .
The persons who have visited her once, are generally
knO\Yn to her again by their manner ofwalking or bre:;tth-
ing, or by the voice. She tells the, difference in the
8ize of one person from auother who enters !_he room, if
asked .
to do so. If a colour be.placed upon the back of '
her hand, or upon the cheek, she will name it correctly.
She bas at different times told colours with her fingers,
re'ad with her hands b~hin~ her and under the Qed-
clothes,* or unde.r a sheet of paper, but seldom for any
length of time. . ·
The mode adopted for binding the eyes, in •the first
instance, was the l\Ianchester shawl, and it was generally
agreed to b·e sufficient for the purpose; but it was not
• More than one individualcan corroborate these facts. Mr. Evans, Surgeon
of Liverpool, was at one time present when she rcad·under the bed-clothe~.­
vide hisletterin the Appendix.
b
196
thought so by a few in~ividnals, and other means were
adopted to satisfy them. A pair of goggles were ob·
tained, and covered with dark-blue paper. Many trials
were made with thel'e, som!:!tlmes with, and often without
a silk handkerchief tied o\·er them, and over the head.
At this period the goggles seemed to be the most in ~s~.
for covering the eyes, and various additions were made
to them, according to the various wishes of the indivi-
duals who visited her, until they were made into a com-:
plete mask, covering the whole of ~he fac~ except the
nostrils and mouth. They were tied by several pieces of
tape at the back of the bead, in almost every direction,
and two pieces 9f tape crossed each other under the nose;
just below where !lline of cotton wo~l was se~ed in,so a~
to prevent any ray of light from passing 1Jpwar~s. Dur~
ing the continuance of a severe inflammation of the ~yes,
which had.,.been produced probably by the heido~casion~
ed by the goggles, which were kept on for a ~onsiderabl~
time, Mr. Thomas and I made use of the pledgets, dip-
ped in a weak solutio!I ofsuper acetate oflead, overwhich
a·neckcloth was tied, and which ans,vered every purpose
we <~ould wish. Occasionally we only: pressed the eye-
lids gently ~~wn with the fingers, and ~eld them in tha~
situation until she had gone through the trial intended.
' • ' I ' • !, '.,, •••
The rumour of Miss M•Avoy's1alent in disti11guishing
colours,.ll'oon .occ~sioned a great influx'of visitors, wlr~
'went a~ay generally satisfied she really posses:red the
power. A considerable number of medical me~ had alrea-
dy \'i,;ited her, and it became a subject of conversation
at Dr. Brandreth's, where a large party dined on the
26th of Oct. 1816. It was 11greed that a certain number
shouid meet me, in St. Paul's Square, on the Monday
followin~, at eleven o'clock, and I sent a message to Mr.
H!l~hes, :st3:ting my inte~~ion. ~ foun~ t~at~ at t~e ~e.~
~97
41usst of ~r. Latham, surg-eon and apothecary of Wa.
vertree, Miss M'f\.voy had gone to spend a few days with
his family. A few ofthe gentlemen put off their inten-
tion to ano~her opportunity; but Drs. Trail and Jardine,
Mr. Redmayne,* and I, went to Wavertree, and we were
very soon followed by Drs. Formby and Vo:;ce. Before
our arrival, several persons had visited h£>r, and she bad
been engaged more or less with tJ!em since breakfast time.
She had named and toJdcolours, and f have understood
they were particJllarly satisfied thp.t ~iss M'Avoy pos:ses·
sed t~is e~traordinary power~
Dr. Jardine took the notes upon this occasion, and from
the experiments made at V{avertree, however UD!!atisfaC•
tory, we may draw the conclusion, that she did not en-
tirely fail. At this time the eyes were covered with the
goggles, and this mode appearedsatisfactory to the gen-
tlemen present. She read a few lines in the Roman History,
~ometimes correctly, but more frequently she was incor-
rect. In a partially darkened room, she made nothing
out, except the white lines and letters upon Dr. Trail's
•
varnished snuff box, the white lines of w.bich, Drs.
Trail and Jardine could scarcely see. In the third ex-
periment, when the eyes were covered with a handker-
chief and lint, or goggles and lint, several pieces of
glass were given to her, and she told three colours out
of four. It shopld be mentioned howe\·er, that she
brought these glasses from home, and it may be possibly
supposed, she recollected the figures ofthe pieces ofglass,
~s she had repeatedly fingered them. If this were the
case, as the glasses were numerous, her memory must
have been very tenacious, to have retained the form,
• Mr. Kent is mentioned, in the Narrative, by mistake, as one of the
party at Wavertree. ·
l
v ...n o
198
·and, by the forms, to have told the colour of the glass.
In the fourth experiment, the eyes were unco,·ered, aud
she told seven colours out often. If she had been capa-
ble of seeing, she·might as well have told them all cor-
rectly. We ought not, I think, in candour, to ittribute
this greater degree of pow~r, when the eyes were unco-
vered, to her seeing, but to the relief afforded, and to the
remission of pain and throbbing in the head, when the
pressure from the lint, or cotton, &c. were removed.
In the fifth experiment, her eyes were covered with the
goggles, stuffed again with lint, and she did not tell any
thing. In t~e sixt~ and last experiment, the red rainted
: glasses were given to her, when her eyes were unco-
vered, and she said the colour was red. Upon the whole,
lhe trial was unfortunate, and it was afterwards cur-
rently reported that Mi8s !vl'Avoy 'could see. This dis-
appointment was injurious in many respects, not only as
it related to the suspicions thrown upon Miss l\1'Avoy's
veracity; but as it caused a censure to be cast upon Mr.
Thomas, me, and upon many others, in allowing our-'
!elves tobe imposed upo[l. It was still more unfortunate
for, the investigation of the truth, as it produced a luke
warmness in many respectable individuals of our profes-
sion, which prevente4 them from prosecuting the in-
quiry.«<
Mr. Bickersteth, a respectable surgeon, and one of my
colleagues at the Infirmary, called upon .Miss M'Avoy ~n
the Friday evening previous to the 26th of October 1816.
Heg&.ve her; when covered, amongst other things, a piece
ofgreen silk, striped with one or more yellow lines, and
• See mycomments upon l\lr. Sandars's pamphlet, where he gives an accou~t
:etthis visit-Pages 31, 32, 33, and 34; and pages 149, 150, and 181 ofthis COR•
tinuation of her ca$4!.
nt
199
certain figures written upon it; ofwhich Mr. Bickersteth,
before he gave it to het:, had not taken notice. She said
the lines were uhile, and repented the numbe.- of
the figures. On the Saturday following, Mr. Bick-
ersteth, mentioned at the Infirmary, the general
circumstances which ·bad occurred. Dr. Gerard, who
had formerly been a Physician of that Institution, was
present, and it was agreed we should visit Miss M'Avoy.
at one o'clock. -we called upon Mr. Thomas, and pro-
ceeded to St. Paul's Square. The eyes of Miss l\I'Avoy
were covered with thtJ goggles, and she told almost eve-
ry colour given to her, and read, &c. When, however,
_
the piece of green silk was again put into her hands, she·
said this is the same piece ofsilk which was given to me
last night; it then seemed to be green and white linest
but it is now green and yellow: light yellow, ors.traw-co-,
lour, would appear to any one white by candle light, and,
it did appear white to Miss l\1'Avoy.*
On the 31st of October, 1816, Miss M'Avoy visited
Mr. Charles Clements in Queen-street. There was lit-
tle fire in the 1oom, and it was so dark that candles were
brought in, but were afterwards ordered away, from the
wish they had to hear .Miss M'Avoy read, &c. A book
just published upon brewing, was put into her hands, and
. '
she read a few lines correctly, but in attempting to read
the word vat, she only made out a v and a I. Mr. Cle-
ments was induced to take the book, and he had some
difficu!ty (from the small quantity of fire in the grate,)
to distinguish the words: h.-, however. found it out to be
the letter a, turned upside-down. She told also the co-
lours of different substances, given to her, ve•·y accu-
• How rday this drcumstance be explained?
- .
too
rately, in a light by which no other person could distin-
guish them, and when the partie» were standing between
.her and the fire.* -
At different times, after the examination at Wavertree,
Miss M'Avoy continued to distinguish colours, when put
into her band, to sew, read, &e:. ; but not with so much
certainty,as she did at first. SheI was easily agitated,
and, if any one disputed the power she possessed, it al-
ways produced irritation, and made her less able to give
proofs of it. But with the amendment of Miss M'Avoy's
health, the faculty ofdistinguishing colours, &c. became
more acute. On this day, (17th January, 1817,) she not
only declared the colour of different cloths, cotton, and
silk, but several pieces of silk.which were inclosed in a
small phial bottle ; she traced with her finger the edge
ofeach ; and, when another phial was given, which did
notcontain any thing, she declared it to be empty. Bot-
tles of whit~ glass, holding magnesia, red precipitate,
red oxyd of mercury, and bark, were separately given
to her, and she accurately named the colour, and told
how high the bottle was filled with each substance :
two small bottles, the one containing water, and the
other spirits of wine, were placed in her bands; she said,
the first was colourless, like water, and the second was
similar in colour, but had a different feel, being much
warmer. I was not certain which was the water, and
which the spirits of wine, as there was not a perceptible
rlifference in colour, until I tasted the contents of the two
phials, when the second was proved to be the spirits of
•These facts conoborate the statements ofMr. Smith and others. Thelet•
ter of l\Ir. Berey in theAppendix,states some facts: hementions one,the nam•
ing a letter, written in sympathetic Ink.
201
wine;~< Soon after this period theRe''· Edw. Glover asked
her, if she could tell the time of the day, by feeling the
surface of the glass, covering the dial plate of a watch,
her answer was, she had never tried it. A watch was gi-
,-en into her hands: she felt the surface of the glass, and.
very soon named the hour. She was afterwards :so exact,
that she not only named the hour, but the number of mi-
nutes the minute hand had passed the hour. Once I
gave her my watch, when the hour was twelve o'clock.
She mentioned the hour, but observed, there was only
one hand; the minute hand being exactly over the hour
hand. Mr. GlO\·er assured me, that for se,·eral days he
was afraid of speaking of the circumstance, lest he should
be laughed at; but, she so often repeated this experiment
in his presence, and in that of other personS: that he
made no hesitation in mentioning it. She told the co-
lour of the different hands, whether they were of gold or
of steel. She distinguished a gold from a sih·er watch.
'Brass and copper were also submitted to her touch, and
she immediatelydiscovered the one from the other. The
colours of variousseals and stones, whether mixed or not,
were correctly named, as well as those of gems; bnt it
was only the colour, and not the nature ofthe stone, un-
less she had before been acquainted with it. The eyes
were covered with the goggles.t
• The Rev. James Hornby,Rector of Winwick, if I mistake not, madea few
experiments with different fluids, which were favourable to the opinion of
.Miss M•Avoy's powers, and_
were in some measure similar to those I had made.
t In this paragraph are contained details which ha\·c thrown a doubt upon
the minds of Miss .M•Avoy's friends, and have confirmed, still more strongly,
the suspicions of her opponents. As facts, no man who has not seen them will
believe, that &he named colourscontainedinglass bottles; or between two pieces
of !lass : or the time of the day in a watch, through the gl:lss; or that she
it.ated, which she afterwards did, the figures of objects at certain distances,
with her~ands placed upon the window: or, in one imtance with her back to-
C"C
On, or about the 28th Qf March, Miss M'Avoy first
made us~- of th~ magnifying glass, and by applying her
finger<t'fo the glass, she read the direction upan a label.
The letters' seem~d to rise, she said, up to the fingers.
On the 19th of April, Messrs. Bickersteth, sen. and jun.
and I, proceeded to St. Paul's Square, Mr. Thomas was
also present. The mode of covering the eyes thi~ even-
ing, was one I had tried, for the first time, a few days he-
' fore, and consisted of a piece of gold beater's skin, suffici-
ently large to co,·er the eye, extended, and sewed upon
two pieces of rehret, which adhered to each othe-r 0\·er
the nose. The edge of the velvet could be turned up, so
that, when the gold beater's skin was'wctted and applied
fo the P.yes, and then allowed to dry, it appeared clo:>ely
adhering to the skin. This mode of cov!_!ring was plea·
santerto Miss .i\l'.Avoy than any other I bad before used;
and it was ~ cooler application than ~ither the goggles,
nr the ilianchester shawl. She named the colour of
tvards the windo'"• nnd in reveral when covered with the goggles, or other
rovering, to the satisfaction of the hye-standers. Yet these facts have beeu
" 'itnessed by the Rev. E. Glover, by the Rev. 'l'hos. Glover, by l\lr. Thomas,
by my~elf, and many, other individuals; and the experiments which have
proved their truth, have been repeated by several persons. ~fr. S:unuel Pea•
cock, late Surgeon in Liverpool, but now of Upton in Cheshire, corroborates
one of these facts, by an experiment upon his watch, which he altered from
the real, to an uncertain hour o£,the day, when :Miss ~I•Avoy was covered not
only with the goggles, but with gold beaters 'kin. He placed the watch witb
its face downwards, and covered it with a handkerchief: he then took bibs
l\1'A,-oy's hand and placed it under the handkerchief upon the glass, when >he
teld tb<> time of the day exactl.Y as marked upoll the dial plate.-Yidc his let-
ter in the Appendix.
IIa,·ing been a Witness of these facts hn,·ing taken place, I must give theiR
\hat credence an unbiassed mind cannot, with justice, refuse; but I certainly
c~nnot deny, that the mere 1 think upon the subject, the more I am pu2Zkd
to account for it; because it supposes an influence not properly uudcntood,
and which cannot therefore, be satisfactorily explaineu. There can be no doubt
the statement is correct, if any reliance is to be placed upon tile c\'ldence ,r
tfte senses.
b
203
every piece of silk that was given tp her, except one, and
that she told afterwar,ds. A piece ofgreen silk was inclo.
sed between two pieces of glass, and the edges of the
glass were sealed with sealing wax: upon feeling the out-
side of the glass, she said the colour was green ; a piece
of red silk was inclosed in a similar manner, which she
named correctly. She told the hour and minutes in two
watches, which differed in time from each other. When
placed in a situation of complete darkness, three cards
were given to her: the two first were clubs, and the last
hearts ; she said they were all black. Agreen and bl&ck
plaid was ~;iven into her hands also, when the room
was quite dark ; but it was black to her feeling. Upon
Dr. Jardine opening the door, a feeble light was throwu
upon a part of the plaid, and she then declared it to be
green and black, when no other person oy the same light,
could ascertain the colour.
It w~s about this period that :Miss l\I'Avoy endeavour-
ed to amuse herself in mttkiug small baskets of coloured
paper: it was curious to obsen·e her passing the paper
through the interstices of the basket work. She was of·
ten foiled by the point of the paper being turned inward
or outward. If she found she did not succeed after two
or three attempt~, ;;he used her fingers t~ straighten it,
and then pushed it through. .She sometimes used a pin,
or needle, to raise the paper under which tile point
should pass.
June l9th.-Reads and tells colours more perfectly
than for some time past. , Dr. Brandreth and Mr. Shaw
were present: she read the maker's name in Dr. Bran-
dreth's hat, " Capon, bat-maker, London," with her
hands behind her. The eyes W<'re covered with the
black velvet and gold-beater's skin, with a silk handker-
f
204
chieftied over the whole. She read several lines, which
Dr. Brandreth wrote, with tolerable precision ; &nd when
she mistook a letter, it was more like what she named,
than what Dr. Brandreth intended, as it WtlS written iu
great haste. She told some letters upon a snuff box, which
could ~ot be read easily without a magnifying glass;
and, with this glass, she reau all the words but the termi-
nation of the last. She traced with her fingers, the laud-
~cape, which consisted amongst other objects, of two
cocks fighting: she said they were like two peacocks:
the tails of the cocks were very full, and we did not think
her remark much out of the way. The lines ~t the bot-
tom, were "bet~er stuff never trod a midden." She told
the time of the day, and several colours. Upon taking
off the handkerchief, one of the pieces of gold-beater's
skin was loosened from the eye, bnt they appeared still
to be suffici~ntly covered by the handkerchief.
June 24th.-The eyes \Vere covered, for the first time,
with sticking plaister, and black silk in the centre of the
lllaister, so as to nllow the edges to adhere to the cheek
and nose, and to co,·er the globe of the eye. '
J nne 28th.-\Vas still more nccurat(' in the description
of colours, iu reading with the fingers, and with the mag-
nifying g·lass. TracP.d and told severn! colours of silk,
incloii'ed in a glass bottle. The eyes were covered with
sticki11g plaister, which had been used once before, with
a silk handkerchief over the whole, which went round
the head, was crossed at the eyes, and was pinned to each
side ofthe head, over the ears. The mode appeared very
well adapted to the purpose, becau~e the handkerchief
beiug drawn tight, pressed upon the sticking plaister, so
as to keep it clo8e to the eye •and, when it was taken off,
the sticking plaister appeared to adhere very closely to
205
every part where it was applied. Upon taking off the
sticking plilister, the eyes were so firmly closed, that a
few seconds passed over before she was able to open
thell'l:·
June 30th.-I was particularly anxious that all the gen-
tlemen who had seen her at Wavertree, aud any medical
meQ, or others, interested in an inquiry of this nature,
I
should vi::;it her. The pain and uneasiness she suffered
at the Wavertree examination, had left a,n impresion on
her mind not to be easily eradicated: she appeared agi-
tated when the name of any one of the gentlemen was
suddenly announced to her.
Drs. Brandreth and Trail, and Mr. Bickersteth, ac-
companied me to-day. There hadbeen much thunder and
lightning in the morning. Her pulse was 108 when we
first entered the house, but in a short time it rose to more
than 120. The hands and fingers were very cold. The
eyes were covered with sticking plaister, as before. Dr.
Trail did not wish any handkerchief to be made use of.
Strips of sticking plaister were also placed in different
directions, but as the muscles of the fnce,&c. moved, lit-
tle crevices were opened in different parts of the sticking
plaister, which Mr. Bickersteth employed himselfin clo-
sing, with the end of a pencil case. She failed in the
first instance, and was soon ,·cry much agitated. Drops
of perspiration rested upon her upper lip, yet she still en-
deavoured to feel and name the colours, until at last she
became quite exhausted. She, however, did name a few
colours, and told the time of the day, but Dr.\ Trail was
not satisfied that the eyes were sufficiently covered, al-
though, when the sticking plaister was taken off, it ap-
peared to me that it had adhered sufficiently to answer
every purpose ofblindfolding her; the marks which were
lJ I C
206
impressed upon the cheek, were very evident, and the
eye-lids were closed when the sticking plaister was taken
off.*
As usual, when at a loss, she put her bands to her
mouth and head, which e:tcited still further suspicion in
Dr. Trail that she had -some improper m'otive in doing
so. I might obsen·e, that I had mentioned my inten-
tion of accompanying Dr. Trail to Miss l\I'Avoy the
day before; and I have no doubt the agitation originated
from Miss M'Avoy having heard that Dr. Trail had de-
clared she could positively see.t
J'uly 3Ist.-Mr. Cyrus Morral, a respectable merchant,
Mr. Pentland, of this town, Mr·. Stewart, (his Majesty's
Consul at New London,) and Mr. Curwen late of Char-
lestown, but now of Liverpool, who bad hear!! of Miss
M'Avoy'sextraordinary powers requested me to introduce
them. We proceeded to St. Paul's Square, and I cm·er-
ed the.eyes wfth sticking plaister and black silk, in w
complete a manner, to all appearance, that it was agreed
by the gentlemen present, it could not be more !'ecure.
A silk handkerchiefwas then tied over the whole, crossed
at the eyes, and pinned above the ears. SeYeral pieces
ofsilk were gin~n tq her, aU ofwhich she nanwd correct-
ly. I had provided twelve square pieces of glass: be- _
tween each piece I inclosed a small portion of silk.
• See comments on Mr. Snndars's remarks upon this visit, pages 151 and
152.
tIn a case of this nature, the most trifling circumstance gives rise to suspi·
cion; but in many instances where she has been observed to do this, it could
often have been demonstrated that the object she named, was not within the
line of vision; of COI!fse, covered as she was, ifsight existud, she could not
see it.
uv a
207
They were sealed together with sealing wax, and were
gh·en in the following order:-
1. LightBlue, ......... ans\Ycred, ... ... ... Light Blue.
2. Straw colour, ......
3. Two pieces ofglass,)
without ~ilk, ...... J
4. Scarlet ............
ll. Da:k r~by, poppy,}
or mulberry.
6. Pink, with white1
spott on one side,
& white, with pink J
spots on the other..
"
"
"
"
"
Light yellow, orstraw colour.
.........{Nothing. The glasses of_a
greenish colour.
... ... ... Scarlet.
.........{Ruby, or dark poppy.
Whit.isl1-
She told the colour of two seals belonging to the watch
of one ofthe gentlemen, Mr. Curwen; also the colour of
the metal>of his watch, and of the riband attached to it,
which was red, with a black border. She told the time
ofthe day exactly to halfa minute, in two different wat·
ches. I gave her a piece of paper, cut out from-the co-
vering of Ormerod's History of Cheshire, and she read
with her fingers "Ormerod's History of Cheshire, Part
Ill. Subscribers copy, No. 200, collated and perfect.
"Dr. Renwick,
" Liverpool."
My address was written, and theletters which were prin-
ted were tolerably large. A copy of one of the laws of
the Athenreum, printed in a very small type, was gi\·eu
to her. She could not read it with her fingers, although
I have before seen her read fully as small print. )'he
magnifying glass was put into her hands, and she read
two or three lines very correctly. Soon after thi:o expe-
riment, she suddenly lost the power. I requested the
gentlemen to attend to the taking off the silk hand·
tt
kerchieffrom the eyes. \Vhen it wastaken off, the stick-
ing plaister was seen adhering closely to th~ skin, in
every part, except in the inner canthus of tlie left eye,
where a small pin head might possibly be introduced,
but where it w~s not likely any ray of light could pass,
as the handkerchief ~vas .tied directly o\·er it, and the
light must have fallen downwards, to have reached the
eye, through the middle of the handkerchief. After
the sticking plaister .was removed, the eye-lids appeared
quite closed upon the eyes, and it was some time before
she could open them. A few colours were given to her
a little time after the bandage was taken off, but the power
was gone, and she did not tell any of them.
July 2d.-On the 30th of June, it was proposed that
another trial should be made in the presence of Dr.
Brandreth and Dr. Trail. The hour appointed was
half past one o'clock. Dr. Brandreth was prevented
from attending, and Dr. Trail did not arrive during my
stay in St. Paul's Square. Dr. Trail has since informed
me he was exactto his time. There must ha,·e been some
mistake in this statement, as I did not leave St. Paul's
Square until half past two o'clock. Being anxious for
their arrival, I walked in the square to meet them ; and,
when it was some time past the hour, I met Mr. M'Cor-
quodale; who expressed a wish to see Miss l\l'Avoy. He
followed me into the house, and I was very sorry that
Dr. Trail had not been present, as I think from the expe-
riments made on this day, he would hav-e been induced
to alter his opinion.-The method employed to blindfold
her, was Burgundy pitch, spread upon calico. T\VO
pieces, large enough to cover the eye-balls, and to li~
flat upon the cheek bones, were prc;>pared, and a piece of
black silk'placed in the centre, leaving a border suffici-
Pntly large to adhere to the skin. The plaister~ were
warmed at the kitchen fire, and applied there to tli~ eye.ll
by Mr. 'J:homas, and they adhered apparently as close as
possible. ' The silk handkerchief \Vas finrtly bound over
them. She went through the former routine of experi-
ments. She read two addrc.5s cards; told the differ~
ent colours of the cnrds, the one was \Vhite, and the
other a stone colour; mentioned the time of the day ;
the metal of Mr. M'Corquodale's watch, and she read,
through ·a magnifying glass, several lines in a hand bill.
Several silks were p1tt into a phial bottle, each of which
she named correctly. Four locks of hair were separat-
ly placed in her hands, :illd she declared them accurately
to be three shades of brown, and one of grey hair. From
the two former trials, the skin about the eyes was in~
flamed by the application of the sticking plaister; an<l
from this, the skin was excoriated ; a sufficient proof
thaJ it had adhered very closely.*
July 8th;-She tolei me the. time of the day by my
watch. i placed a light rose-coloured leaf between the
glass and the dial plate of my watch, a!!.d I did the same
lVith a blue flower in Mr. Thomas's watch. The eye-
lids were closed by Mr Thomas's fin?etS: she declared
correctly the colour of the leaf in my watch to be a very
light pink; with one part of it yellow, and another part
white, and that in l\Ir. Thomas's watch to be blue.
• See Mr. Sandars's account of this visit, iii his pamphlet, pages 17 and 18,
and my conunents on the pru-tial manner in which he has noticed this exami-
nation. Indeed, if I had republished his whole pamphlet, as well as the let•
ters, l think the public would have seen how .!lnfairly he has entered into the
discussionofthe facts inthe Narrative. The perusalof his ownpamphletwould
have more effect to condemn hint in the opinion of the unbiassed individual,
than any thing I might be able to say upon the subJecti and it mo~t conspi·
cuously appears, that thelast object he had in view was the'elucidation oftho
truth.
Dd
U u a/If Otgtt y ro ott
210
August lst.-I found the Rev. Mess~s. Thomas, Ed·
ward and Vincent Glo,•er at Miss M'A,·oy's. Miss
M'Avoy7
s powers which had been very deficient for some
time past, were again elicited in the presence of these •
gentlemen, and, having more leisure, than I had, at the
time, they prosecuteu their inquiries ~-Hh great pe1·sever.r
ance from the 30th July, to the evening of Augn~t 2d.
They have favoured me with the result of their experi-
ments, which I shall repeat in their own wonls, after
my own detail of facts;
August 4th.-With her l1ahd placed behind her upoi1
the window, opposite to the communion end of tl1e
church, she told the figures of different people passing
and-sometimes named the colour of the clothes, or any
thing that might be on the head, or in the hand, or npon
the shoulder, or back o( the person. She told also
the positions of four different workmen in the Church
Yard, one by one, as they sat down ; and then of the
four ; she stated orle ~o be reading a paper or book ; the
second, to have his hands folded ac1oss his breast; th~
ttllrd, with his hands in his breeches pockets;* and the
fourth, in some position which I do not recollect. J al-
most iiwariably kept my eyes upon l\Iiss l\I•A voy's face
during this e~eriment, . whilst 1\lr. Thomas repottet\ to
me their situation.
'
Aug. st l4th.-A large piece of pasteboard was made
use of to·day. It was cut so as to admit the nose, and to
preS'S upon the cheeks, and formea a sort of g-renadier's
Jcap, rising abo\'e the head. Cotton wool was sewed up-
on the edge~, where it touched the nose and cheek, both
inside and out. Tapes were attached to it in two or three
• The hands were bndcr nn aprorn
Um C 1f Dqttl d
211
different place!, which were tied round the back of the
head, and a small piece of tape closed it still more over
the nose. Applied to my face, and to that of several
other gentlemen, we could not see; but if it were put
upon the nose of any gentleman which was more promi .
.nent, it did not fit well, and a person thus constructed,
might sec and describe colours. The same remark might
be made upon. the goggles; but when the cross string
()Ver the nose is tied firmly, it is scarcely possible for any
one to see so as to disting·uish any object. .o\t any rate,
Miss .M'Avoy's eyes were completely covered with it, as
by looking from above down to the nose, I could see no
object. The c«;>tton. wool, silk, and cloth were given to
her, but she did not distinguish any of them. Thursday
was very hot and gloomy. The hands and fingers were
warm,but there was a clammy moisture upon them, which
-appeared to take away the feyling as much as when they
ncre cold.
August 15th.-Yesterday, after my visit, she told co~
lours, read, &c. very well. This m,9rning, also, she was
very correct in all the expe,riments which were made.
A carriage was at the door, with servants in livery.
With her face tnrnf!d sideways from the window, and my
hand bet"·een the window and the face, she named the
colour of the -field in the coat of arms upon the pannel
of the carriage, at the di~tance of six feet, and the live-
ries of the servant~, which were brown, with blue cuffs.
She described correctly every colour in a shawl, the
ground of which was black, with several bright colours
upon the border, and she traced exactly how far the one
colour extended, and where another began, as well as
the different shades of each colour.
August 16th.-Seyeral ladies accompanied me to vi~it
Um ro
212
Miss M'A,·oy, and she did el•ery thing almost without a
single failure. One lady stood in the street, without ap-
prising Miss 1\l'Avoy, that she was going thither. The
eyes were covered with the goggles. She was desired to
feel upon the glass, and to describe the object passing.
She answered accurately, that the lady's gown was
white; that she had a blue spencer on, and a green um.
brella in her hands. She distinguished the colour of a
supposed cairngorum stone: the colour she named, but
she said it was not a stone, but glass. At the time, a file
appE!ared to me, to act upon it, but these stones ha¥e
since been shewn at Mr. Harper's shop, in Lord-street,
and it is said they are cairngorum stones,
August 23d.-She was not so expert to-day, and could
not name correctly the silks, &c. inclosed between the
glass. She told, however, several colours of silks and
papers, both with the goggles on, and when the goggles
were taken off, and one or two with the fingers pressed
upon the eye-lids. Two pieces of sticking plaister, which
had been used before, were shewn to the party, as ~me.of
the means used for blindfolding her: they were fi~ed up-
on her eyes, with a handkerchief tied properly over them.
Mr Richard Rathbone held his fingers on each side of
the nose, so as to prevent any possibility of seeing down-
wards. In this situation she told one or more colours to
his satisfaction. The younger brother of Mr. Rath-
bone, Mr. Adam Hodgson, and several ladies were pre-
sent. She told also one or twe coloured papers, with
the colours on the under side. O~e·'piece of paper was
}>tiTple on tht> under side, and on the i.lpp~r it was pink.
She was desired to name the upper side, 'nnd she said it
was pink, but she was not observed e,·en to touch it. She
named the under side purple. The circumstance of her
naming the pink colour surprised us all. The goggle•
Un Cr1 If iJ
213
were at this time used. Alight she not ha,re felt the up-
per surface, though we did not observe her to do so?*
She also told the time ofthe day by the watch, and read
a few·words. She named correctlya blue "·ater colour,
whic~ c~vered the i!lside of.q saucer.
August ~7th.~Mr. Wilson, of Casterton, in Westmor-
land, his s~n, the \'icar of Preston, and the late Mr. Edw.
Houghton, visited her to-day. The eyes were covered
with the goggles: a white cambrick handkerchief was
given by Mr. Wilson; she said it was white. Mr. E.
Houghton gave her a silk handkerchief, which she named
yellow and scarlet; and I gave her one, which she de:
clared correctly to be scarlet, yellow, and chocolate.
~he mentioned tht; colours of silk, which were placed
between five double glasses; and one which did not con-
tain any silk, she declared to' he void. She read the di-
rection ofa letter to theRe,·. R. C. Wilson, Preston, Lan-
cashire, and the post mark, Rotberam, and traced the
figure 9, and named it. She read also a few words, with
and without '+ magnifying glass, in a written abstract
from an act of Parliament, which Mr. Wilson had in
his possession. She told the time of the day in two
different watches, but not exactly to the minute, as I
have repeatedly observed her to do. When the fingers
were put O\rer the eyes, she told nothing. The piece of
pasteboard before named was fixed upon her nose. She
named nothing with her fingers, or on 1he hand, but she
told two colours placed upon her under lip. The
other colours she could not name but said they werli!
bJack, and so she said they were after the goggles had
been taken off. · The bands were warm, but with a
• 1 have since asked l\Iiss l\l'Avoy if she felt the card previous to dec!Jring
the colour. Her answer was, she did feel it.
v D q tu d b M , c vft
2l4
clammy moisture upon the finger~. \Vith her hand upoa
the window, she told the colour of the Rev. R. C.
Wilson's coat, and that he had something .white in his
hand; but this experiment, hon-·ever it might be decisinl
to me, under the impression I hare that she is blind,
would not be so to any other person, because Miss
M'Avoy was unco,·ered at the moment.
August 30th.-! appointed Mr. Smith, an ingenious
artist and engraver, to meet me in St. Paul's Square, at
three o'clock 1'. 111. Before he came, a young lady in
the neig~bourhood, seeing me go into the house, follow-
ed, and requested that she might see the young person
who was blind. Miss l\l'A,·oy \"ery kindly allowed the
lady to come in ; and as soon as the goggles were 1ied
over the face, a few pieces of silk were given to her: she
named'1he colour of each separately a~d correctly. In
giving her another piece .the power was gone ; but a.s
her hand was held out sideways upon the table, she
pressed occasionally upon the left arm ng·ainst the edge
of the table, which made me suppo.se this pre~sure had
deadened the sensibility of the nerves of the arm : I
therefore gave the colour into the right hand, and ~<he
immediately named it. This experiment, \o,·hieh lwd
accidentally occurred, ,-,.·ns repeated thn~e or fonr limes
with a simil::.r result. She told .,e,·eral eolonrs of silk,
inclosed between different square pieces of glnss; the
time ofthe day, to haifa minute, in two different.watehes;
the name of the hatmaker in Mr. Smith's hat; and read
part of an ndvertisement which he brought with him,
both with and withont the magnifying gla~s. The young
lady threw down a chimney ornament, containing
several flowers that were nearly dried up; she attempted
to take them up from the floor, after the goggles were
taken off from Mills M'Avoy's face. ~li18S M'A,·oy
U•vv Calif Jg1t1zed by
216
desired her not to trouble herself. Upon being asked
how she knew that any pf'rson had attempted to take
them up, she immediately said she heard the lady grasp
them in her hands.
September Ist.-Mr. Thompson called upon me to
request I would interest myselfin obtaining leave to visit
Miss M'Avoy, for a lady and gentleman of Halifax, who
were stranget·s, and were to leave town in the morning.
Miss lVT'Avoy agreed to receive them, and three o'clock
was the hour appointed. We found Mr. Smith, the en-
gra,·er, and his brother in the house. l\lr. and i\Iisi'
Ramsden, Mr. W. Ingram, Mr. Ingram jun. 1\Ir. Thomp-
son and I, formed the party. The goggles were tied
over the face of Mr. Ingram, jun. who declared, he could
not perceive the least ray of light. They were then tied
upon Miss l\I'Avoy. A hnt was gh'en to her, with the
name of the maker, and figures iu the inside of the crown.
It w~s lined with yellow silk. She declared the colour
of the sitk lining, bot could not malte out the name in the
hat. She read a part of an advertisement upon a card;
a line or two from an old newspaper, with the magnify-
ing glass; and Miss Ramsden's name, upon an address
card. She told the colour of silks separately, and he·
tween glasses; the time of the day; the colour of differ.
ent seals; was doubtful of the colour of an amethyst,
calling it 'poppy, ruby, purple, or lilac. She named up-
on a varnished box, the .figure of a miser, his green cap,
.spectacle.s, coat, inkhorn and pen, and his money. I
asked her if she recollected -to ha\•e had the box, in her
hands-before? She answered, no. I then told her, Mr.
Gresley, of the Infirmary, had produced it once when h~
visited her. She then remembered he had given her this
box~ She lost the power for a few minutes, and tlu~n re-
covered it. A day or h'."o ago, she told colours whicb
Un y r ft
216
were placed upon her feP.t and upon her legs, but she did
not retain the power for more than one or two minutes.
September 3d.-i this morning found Miss 1\i'Avoy
,-ery complaining, and looking worse than 1 bad seen her
for many days. It seems, a large party dsited her yes-
terday. The appointment was at half-(Jiist two o'clock,
but the party were admitted at two, before Miss 1\'l'Avoy
was ready to receive them. She hurried herself in dress-
ing, and was \'ery much heated when she went down
into the parlour. Dr.. Jardine a.nd several other persons
were present. The pasteboard and cotton were prefer~
red by one of the gentlemen, who held his fingers o~·er
the pasteboard and nose, and placed himself immediately
before her, so that it brought on agitation; she could not
tell any colour, and was soon obliged to retire into and,
ther room. Her hantls were of a burning heat; her face
was very much flushed; the pulse, at one period, was 160.
It was a considerable time before she became composed~
A few of the party went away, and others came in. In
a short time, she told colours, read, &c. so as to satisfy
those who were present.•::<
Mr. Richard Rathbone, Mr. Barclay, their ladies, Miss
Reynolds, of Colebrook Dale, and two other young ia-
dies, were present in the afternoon. The eyes were co-
vered wi:lt the goggles. She told the colour of two or
three sorts of silk, light blue, dark blue, and white, which
covered a small pocket book, belonging to Mrs. Barclay!
ofa white pocket handkerchief;ofa parasol, green, white,
and green and white mixture; and the colour of the
• Thisis the meeting to which l\lr. E. Smith alludes, when he speaksof the
grimaces of Sir G. B. Collier, aRd their e1fect upon ~liss M•Avoy. See pqe
185.
Um Calif Dtgttl b
217
pelisseS of the two young ladies, which were blue and
white. Named a guinea, a shilling, a sixpence, and a
three shilling piece, placed upon plain glass, and feeling
through another glass. She became now agitated; the
feeling left her, and she was not able to tell a single
colour. I desired her to go out of the room for a few
minutes; upon returning, she told the time of the day
in one watch exactly, in the other, not within two or
three minutes, but she afterwards corrected herself.
She told the following liquids in phials:-
Blue, •.•• •.• .•• .•• ..• .•. answered, ••••••.•. Blue.
Purple,.. ••• ••• ••• ••• •.• , .•• .•.... Purple.
Red,: ..• ... ... .•. ..• ••. , ... ... ... Red.
Orange, .••••••••••••••
Black, •• ••• ••••••••••••
\Vater, ••.•••• ••• ••••••
Spirit of Wine, •.••.•.
Green, ................
,
,
,
,
,
••••••••• Orange.
••• ••• ••• Black.
••• •.• •.• Colourless, or water.
•.••••••. Ditto.•
••••••••• Green.
She could not read any thing, and was obliged to have the
goggles taken off two or three times. She told several
stones correctly. Mr. Barclay tried thegoggleson, and by
working the muscles of his face in different directions,
he managed to tell the time of the day by a watch ; but '
his nose was very prominent, and not at all similar to that
of Miss M'Avoy; had the covering extended a little more
down to the point .of the nose, and been tied a littlf~
tighter, it is probable he could not have seen. I must ob-
serve, that the cotton had been so padded down by fre-
quent use, that there appeared an opening under the cot-
• But not the same; she said it was colder. The water had been put into
the bottle sOIJiletime before, and the spiritof wine had beenjust taken out from
a large bottle at the druggist's. She had on the 17th of January, declared the
•pirit of wine to be warmer; .Might not,this be explain•d by the difference of
temperature, as the bottle of water had been in my waistcoat, and the spirit of
wiRe in my coat pocket?
Ee
ton, above the nostrils, and she appeared to look side-
ways, during the latter experiments; but, I have reason
to think, this mode of appearing to look at the object,
arises more from habit than from any design. Mr. Barclay
was not quite satisfied with respect to the covering, and
it was very natnral this should be the case, when he could
himself see through it. She afterwards told a purple
flower behind her, a light yellow, a marygo!d, and a
small pincushion of red cloth, by feeling with her hand
under a white handkerchief, lying upon her knee. She
was extremely ill, during the greater part of this exami-
nation. She returned a cornelian heart, whi~h Mr.
Rathbone had left when he visited her before, and seem-
ed to give it to him without any doubt of his person. Mr.
Rathbone was low, anll Mr. Barclay tall in stature. 'fhe
t-iolar spectrum was thrown upon her bands, &c. but she
felt nothing; the sun, which shone upon her head, seemed
to affect her by its heat. ·
September 8th.-Uncovered, she could not name co·
lours to-day with her fingers. Covered with the gog·
gles, she named a straw coloured silk, placed upon her
under lip. In going out, Dr. Freckleton and Mr. Pea-
cock, surgeon, met us, and wished to have seen l\liss
M'Avoy; but, being so very ill, it was thought advisable
for them to defer their visit to another opportunity. Mr.
Thomas observed however, that they might as well see
her, as it would be an introduction, and might induce
the family to receive them at a future time. They went_.
in, tried on the goggles, and were satisfied they could
not see with them. l\I~ss l\'I'Avoy was induced to put
them o_
n, and Mr. Peacock gave her his \'ratch, she told
the name of the metal, which was. silv-er, and the time of
the day. She did the same to Dr. Freckleton's, which
was gold. Named the time of the dayt which was a fc\T
219
minutes later in the one wat{'h than in the other. Was
Asked to name how many fingers were upon the watch,
but in attempting to do so, she found the power was
gone.
September llth.-Mr. Wilbraham Egerton, of Tattoo,
Cheshire, his lady and son, Mr. Perry, Mr. Gresley, two
of his friends, a g·entlemnn and lady, and Mr. Bennet, an
out pupil of the Infirmary, were present. The goggles
were tried by Mr. Egerton, who was satisfied with the
mode ofblindfolding her. 1\lrs. Egerton gave her a drab
coloured silk shawl, with a flowered border of different
colour~, white, green, red, yellow, &c. which she de-
scribed with great exactitude. She told the time of the
day in three different watches, which were not alike in
time, and the colour of two, a gold and a silver hunting
watch. Of this latter, she said it was silver on both sides,
but there was no glass as in the other watch. She de-
scribed the colours of silk, between f~ur pair of glasses,
~ealed with red wax; and she detected the one which
was empty. She read a few words ofa dir~ction of a let-
ter, but did not make out the whole, as it was not very
easy to decypher the writing. She read with the convex
glass three names upon a card. She told the colour of
.Mr. Egerton's horses with her hand upon the window
glass; that the one was a light and the other a darker
brown; that a lady was seated in the cnrricle2 and, that
there was something red near her. She occasionaly lost
the power, but soon recovered it again, upon the gog-
gles being taken off, and being allowed to go into the next
room to cool herself.
September 12th.-The Rev. John Yates, the Rev.
Thomas Belsham, and the two .Misses Yates, were ad·
mitted this morning. I was present, but not being pre-
vC
.·
~20
pared with any colours for the purpose of examination,
I went out to procure some. Upon my return, Dr.
Taylor, late of Bolton, and another gentl~man, seeing
the Rev. J. Yates's carriage at the door, had gone into
the house. She read very uncertainly a few words, and
told the time of the dny in a watch. ~he named again
the time of the day in t~o ot~er watches, which were
not exactly alike. I gave into her hands several pieces
of silk, which she described correctly, an4 a few wa-
fers of rather uncer~ain hues, which sl;le did not make out
well. A seal was given to her, but she could not name
the colour. Upon the whole, her powers were deficient,
in comparison, to what they sometimes are.*
• ~ l •
September IJtb.-Dr. Brandreth, the Rev. James
Hornby, Rector of Winwick, -Mr. Thomas, Mr. Luke,
Mr. Evans, and several other persons, were present at
thi~ exami_
nation. The heat of Miss M'Avoy's hands was
about 90 degrees of Fahrenheit. She told different co-
loured silb v~ry correctly; the double glasses containing
silks, and one piece of cotton with red stripe·s, which
had been given to her more than once before. She read
~e,·eral line~, in a correct manner, from a volume of the
Rev. Mr. Murphy's sermons, which had been lately pre•
.sente~ to her by the author,both withan~ withou~ t~1e mag-
nifying glass. She endeavoured to read a part o(a letter,
1\-·hich the Rev. J. Hornby placed in her hands; but sh-
e
did not do it with· that certainty I ha,•e often observed~
She told to whom the face belonged of an engra,·ed por-
trait, which I am informed she had never had in her
hands before, by feeling it all over with her fingers. It
was the portrait of the late Rev. William Tarleton, who
• Some obrervations are made upon this visit, by Dr. Taylor, which I have
already commented upon. See pages 132 and 183.
(': I D
221
lost his lif~ in consequence of a fever, which he is said to
have caught during a laborious attendance upon the sick
poor belonging to the Roman Catholic persuasion. Dr.
J ardin{l came in a little before this period, and infor'Q'led
us she ·~ad named hi,m, when placed near. the rails of the
church-yard, with her fingers upon the wind.ow g-lass,:J!:
Dr. Brandreth gave her a varnished snuff box, upop
which there was the picture of an old man. She said it
'Yas an old man, but she did not make it out as welll\S
usual. Through a plain glass she felt the features of a
gentlem'.ln, the Rev. James Hornby, who had spectacles
on, reflected from a common mirror, and of Mr. Tho-
mas, ~hose name she mentioned. She suddenly said t4e
power was gone. She also lost the power several timei
before, and she did nothing when the pasteboard, with
cotton wool, was placed upon her nose in a horizontal
direction from the nose. She could not tell the colour
oftwo seals, which were given to her by Dr. Brandreth,
but she declared they were both stones. She told one
colour, blue, behind her. The hands were both mode-
rate as to t~mperature, except at the latter end of the
examination, when they became more heated and clam-
my. She told nothing with her hands placed cipon the
window. The eyes were covered with the goggles.
Sept. 15th. Three ladies were present. The goggles were
tied over the eyes. She told the time of the day in three
different wate:hes exactly. She named the colours of dif-
ferent silks,and she told four with a handkerchiefthrown
over the bead, between her hand and the silks. The last
colour she told in this way she said was blue, and, in an
• She had never Eecn Dr. Jardine before her illnc~s, (when she could see)
but he had frequently visited her since.
instant after, it wa!'; black, and then, the power was gone.
Tbe colour of the silk was blue.
September 16th.-I saw her to-day with a gentleman of
the profession. She told the time of the day upon two
watches; three or four silks, which I q-a,•e her, and one
silk taken from the inside of the case of the gentleman's
watch; the nature of the metal, the colour of the seals,
&e. and read~ single line in a book.. The goggles were
used, as they were in t~e afternoon, when I am informed
Lord Stanley the Rev. James Hornby,ofWinwiek, Cap-
tain Hornby, and Mr. Thomas were present. I under-
stand they expressed their satisfaction at the powers she
exhibited.
September 17th.-Mr. and Mrs. Freme, Mrs. M'Allis-
te'r, the late Rev. Mr. Goodier, the Miss Dixons, the
late Mr. Thomas Davies, Mr. Robert Clay, and several
other persons were present. The weather being very
warm, and the goggles heating her very much, I pro-
posed she should try the black \'elvet and gold-
beater's skin. It was prepared by one of the ladies, l\li~s
Dixon, by sewing two pieces ofsufficient size upon white
Persian silk, which being· wetted with a little water, was
affixed upon the P-yes very closely. The black vch·et,
and gold beater's skin, as before mentioned, was also
wetted, and ::~pplied over the former; and, over all, a
silk handkerchief was tied, until the gold beater's skin
was dried so as to adhere firmly upon the eyes and sur-
rounding parts. She named the colour of different
silks, of wafers, and of seals. She was mistaken in an
ornament, consi8tin~ of small green and red stone8, in
imitation of emeralds and rubies, which she said were
not glass, but she told the colour of each accurately,
except one, although irregularly intermixed. She after·
223
wards said they were glass. She declared the colour of
two amethysts to be a darker and paler lilac. The paler
she said was set round with pearls, and was a real .stone :
the other, which was a seal, was not real, but glass.
She told the colour of silks contained in a glass bottle:
she named the time of the day in different watche:;; she
read a line and a half in the Rev. Mr. l\Jurpby's Ser-
mons, without the glass, and four lines and a half in a
small pamphlet which one of the gentlemen brought with
him, with the magnifying glass. She could not tell the
time ofthe day by fee!ing through the green glass, plac-
ed o,·er the glass of the watch, nor .could she name a
colour, placed/ below the first piece of plai1,1 glass,
whilst she held the second, and passed her fingeriil o,·er
it as usual.* With a mirror upon her knee, and feeling
through the plain glasi', she mentioned the general ap-
pearance, reflected, o(a gentleman looking into the glass
with spectacles, and also noticed a watch lfbich l placed
over the mirror. Miss 1\T'A voy did not to-day possess
the power of distinguishing persons in the street, by the
application of the hand to the window. When the gold-
beater's skin, &c. were taken off, it was evident the eye-
lids were completely closed, and that the gold beater's
skin adhered to ~very part surrounding the eyes.
September 20th.-Several persons came in whilst 1
was in the house, and Miss M•Avoy allowed the goggles
to be tied over her eyes. She told the time of the day in
• It is curious she was riot able to read a letter, or distinguish a colour when
placed between two plain glasses, separatedfrom each other, because the sepa-
ration of the glasses would not prevent her from discernint; the object, if she
really could see. Again when the glasse~ lay llat upon each other, and the si·
tuation of the object was not altered by the power of refraction she could
read and name colours through them,although she observed the object was not
sodistinct asthrough only one glass.
\ u .....
224
three different watches, and the colour of different silks•.
She read two or three lines in different books, one of
which belanged to· a young lady who was present, very
correctly. I tried her with the glass ov-er her head, but
~he could not distinguish any object through it.
September 23d.-Several persons were present in the
morning, to whom she named colou:'s; told the time of
the day, &c. <?ne gentleman gave her a seal, which she
said was red: upon being asked whether it was stone or
glass, she hesitated for a few moments, and then said it
did not appear to her to be either. lt was a seal of
Tesses composition.':!< He also gave her a Labrador
stone, the colour of which, in some instances, she de-
scribed correctly to our view; in others, she seemed to
be incorrect. Mr..and Mrs. Earle, Mr. Wm. Earle, and
the young ladies of the family, the Re;, John Yates,
Mr. Adam. Hodgson, and many other gentlen'len and
ladies were present in the afternoon. The eyes were
co\·ered with two pieces of gold beater's skin ; the one
sewed upon crape, and the other upon black silk; she
read, told colours, the time of the day, the colour of
seals, &c. with considerable correctness, and apparently
to the satisfaction ?f the party. She felt the hair of two
or.tbree gentlemen,but did notname the colour correctly.
The party appeared satisfied that the co~·ering was suffi-
cient for the purpose of blindfolding bert.
• Miss M'Avoy has said the real stones or gems, feel harder and more solid ;
the glass softer; and this compo:;dtionstonesetter than glass; yet the difference
was not perceptible to a common observer, when the colour walt the same; nor
isit likely she could have obtained the knowledge of alapidary, to haveenabled
her to state the difference betweeneach.
t See Mr. Koster's Letter in the Appendix, and my observations ttpon it,
pages 173 and 174.
Un al
225
September 24th.-Eigbt o'clock, P. M.-Mr. Thomas
called upon me to say there had been a large party at
Mr. Hughes's early in the· afternoon, · and that Miss
M'Avoy had been thrown into a ,·ery unpleasant state
by the intrusion of a gentleman,* who, upon Mr. Thomas
placing upon tbe eyes the 6rst covering above described,
went down upon his knees and looking up to Miss
M'Avoy, declared, before it was sufficiently dried, that
the eye-lids ·were open, and that she could see. This
observation, it seems, led to others, which were unplea-
sant to Miss 1\'l'Avoy and to the party, and she was
thrown into that state of confusion which might be
naturally expected from such a charge. If the gentle-
man had wished to defeat the expectations of the party,
he could not have taken a more elfectual method, as
every thing '"hich agitates her, immediately destroys the
power. I have since seen Mr. Nairn, a respectable sur-
geon, in Union-street, who wail present on the same
d~y, and he assures me, that in the presence of the Rev.
James Barr, minister of the Scotch Church in this town·,
and Mr. M'Culloch, jun. with her eyes covered with the
gold beater's skin, Miss M'Avoy told the time of the
day in a watch, one or more colours, and satisfied them
completely, she was blindfolded, so as to prevent her
from seeing, if she even possessed the power of vision.
September .25th -D~. Brandreth, the Rev. James and
George Hornby, the Hon. Edward Stanley, and a party,
from Knowsley, visited Miss M'Avoy. Mr. Thomas and
I were present. The eyes were covered witl1 gold beat-
er's skin, sewed slightly upon a little crape, sufficiently
large to cover the eye-ball, and to press down the eye-
• I understand this was the only visit Mr. Sandars ever paid 1\Hss M•Avoy.
For his own account of it, I ;refer the reader to his pamphlet.
Ff
..
226
lid. After they had remained for some time, it was allow-
ed by the per3ons present that the eye-lids were properly
closed. Another piece of gold beater's skin was sewed
u'pon a larger piece of black silk, wetted by a small
sponge, dipped in water, and applied o\·er the first.piece.
In a little time also, this application appeared to adhere
firmly over the eyes, and to rest upon the upper part of
the cheek. Se,·eral pieces ofsilk were gi\•en to her; she
name-d the colour of each correctly. The _colours of the
pieces of silk, inclosed between two glasses, and sealed
\"Vith red wax, were declared. She told the colour of se-
veral liquids contained in phial bottles. I have ~e~n her
more correct than in this experiment, as she said two bot-
.ties contained colours different from what they really
were. She pointed out the ''arious colours of sill{s con-
tained in a small phial bottle. She traced the lines, and
declared the figures printed on a piece of calico, ~vhich
had, a little before, been brought in from one of the
shops, and she told also, generally, the different colours
of the print. • She named the time of day, in c.liffereut
watches, exactly; the colour of seals ; nnd she read some
lines both with and without the magnifying glass. She
.told a guinea, a shilling, and a sixpence, placed upon one
glass, through another plain gla~s; but an eighteen pPnny
piece, she could describe only as larger than a shilling.
If I mi3take not, she said afienvards " bank token wa~
marked upon it," the re,·crse side being uppermost. She
described through the plain glass, the per,oons of two
gentlemen, reflected from a mirror. She thought one
ofthe gentlemen was Mr. Hornby, whos:e reflected imng-e
she bud described before in a similar manner. l\Ir.
George Hornby, who bad put on his brother's ~>pecta­
cles, is s:.id to bear a strong resemblance to him. l\Ir.
Hornby wears powder; but ~be said the gentleman whom
she perceived, had dark hair. She declared that a hantl
227
was raised up to his face, and then, that he had a glasa
in his hand. She could not read ·with a concave gla~s at
a short distance; but when it was placed upon the book,
she read two or t~ree words. She lost the power occa·
~ionally, and went into the back room. Dr. Brandreth,
l\lr. George Hornby, and I, followed her. With her
hands upon her back, she could not name the colour of
one or two pieces which were put into her bands; but
ihe told correctly ~hree colours, with one hand pl'lced
rather sideways than behind her. She was still covered
with the gold beater's skin. Mr. Hornby was requested
to take off the covering, and he, as well as the rest of the
party, had no doubt of.her being perfectly blindfolded,
and that she coul~ ~ot _have seen, even if her eyes had
been perfect.
September 27th.-The two Miss Alansons, of Waver-
tree, and Miss Burrow, of Ormskirk, were present. Miss
·M'.An1y was covered with the goggles. She told the co-
lonr of several silks; and of the silks contained between
the gla><ses. As a party from Knowsley was expected;
I thought it better to defer the trial of any more experi-
ments until their arrival. It happened, however, that
they did not come, and I proceeded to fix the gold beat-
.er's skin npon the eyes. The pieces with crape and gold
heater\; skin were first applied, after closing the eyelids;
and afterwards the black silk :md gold beater's skin.-
T!wy were allowed a sufficient time to dry and adhere to
the skin. She told the time of the day in a watch, ex-
actly to a minute. She named two pieces of money
placed upon a glass, feeling through another piece of
glal's. She told the reflected appearance of one of the
ladies, from a mirror, through a_plain gla8s, with great
cnrrectness; and, when the lady had put on her face a
pair of spectacles, and looked iuto the gla;;:s, Miss
v
228
.. M'Avoy immediately observed the lady had put on the
spectacles. She read several lines both with and without
glasses, in two different books. The coverings were
now taken off, which had adhered firmly to the skin ;
the eyelids appeared to be pe~fectly closed, and it was
some time before she could open them, from beiug, as it
were, glued together.* '
September 29th.-I was requested to meet Dr. Mac·
kenzie, of the Metlical Staff, this morning about the usual
time of my visiting l\liss M'Avoy. I fouud him, accom-
panied by three ladies. Mr. Thomas, and Mr. J.oseph
Brandreth, were also present.
She went through the different trials to the entire sa-
tisfaction of the parties who were present. The gold
beater's skin was used; the first piece was sewed upon
muslin; and after this was applied and allowed to be suf-
ficiently dried, another piece of gold beater's skin, which
had been sewed upon black velvet, was wetted and ap-
plied over the first piece. It adhered to the upper part
of the cheek bone. When these were taken olf, Dr.
Mackenzie and Mr. Brandreth declared their convic-
tion of Miss l\I'Avoy having been blindfolded effectually.
I requested Mr. Brandreth again to try the effects of the
belladonn.a, rubbed with a camel hair pencil upon the
upper eyelid. The strong solution which had peen made
USf! of before, for a similar experiment, was now used.
The pupils did not appear to be more dilated, or, at least,
in no material degree, after it had remained on the up-
• Mr. Sandars has endeavoured to throw ridicule upon the eyelids being, as
it were, glued together, but 1 have no rloubt rn;r assertion will be corro-
borated by other individuals. Indeed, if1mistake not, theyounglady alluded
to, in page 6, of the continuation of the Case, felt the inconvenience of U1e
gold beater's skin from a similar cause.
lJ
'
per eyelid for a coniiderable time; and, it seemed to be
their joint opinion, that M~ss M'Avoy was blind, and the
blindness was occasioned by the defect of the optic
nerve.*
Mr. Brooke of the Custom-house called upon me, to
request I would obtain permission for Mr. Leicester, one
of the Welsh Judges, Mr. Goodbank, and himself, to vi-
sit Miss M'Avoy. The hour appointed was half-past two
in the afternoon. I met Mr. Davenport, an old friend,
who carries o~ an extensive pottery and glass manufac-
tory in Staffordshire, as I was going to St. Paul's Square,
and requested him to accompany me. When we arriTed,
we found the ge~tlemen above-namedalready there, and
Dr. Jardine also made one ofthe party. The eyes were,
after a little time, covered with the gold beater's skin,
sewed upon muslin, and applied as before. After hav-
ing been allowed to remain for a few minutes, that they
might.be completely dried, the second application of
gold beater's ikin and black velvet was made over the
former covering. The gentlemen allowed the mode
of blindfolding was complete. Three or four silks were
given to her, which she named correctly. Three silk hand-
kerchiefs were separately given to her. The first was
yellow and red, with another dark colour, which she said
was yellow, red, and brown; but lam not certain whe-
ther the colour were black, or a dark green, or brown.-
The second was rPd, yellow, and chocolate; the third
was red and white, which were correctly named. She
told a straw colour inclosed between two glasses. Three
watches were given to her: she told the time of the day
in all of them correctly, except in Mr. Leices'ter's watch,
when she named the time of the day as fifteen minutes
'" See Dr. Mackenzie's Letter in the Appendix.
230 •
past three; but her finger was upon the !!econd hand at
the moment, which pointed at fifteen minutes past three.
Upon being told she had mistaken the finger, she found
out where the other pointed, and stated the tim~ cor-
rectly. In this watch, also, the hour, minute, and second
hands ·were made of steel. Upon being asked of what
metal they were composed, she answered steel. Slu~
named the colour of the metal of the watch: she read se-
•
verallines, both with and without the magnifying glass:
she named the colour of two or tbr~e seals, and of three
or four liquids contained in phials. She appeared to dis-
tinguish three different times, spirits of wine from wa-
ter.* The gentlemen then attended to the taking off
the coverings, and from the mode in- which the lower
covering appeared to adhere, and to press upon the eye-
lids, which appeared through the muslin to be entirely
dosed, independent ofthe other covering of_black velvet
and gold beater's skin, not the slightest doubt existed in·
their minds of the truth of the statement they had heard
and seen.
September 30th.-Mr. Bootie Wilbraham, and a part
of his family from Latham, Mr. and Mrs. Pilkington of
Bolton, 1\h. and Mrs. Gaskell, l\lr. Lyall. Drs. Brand-
reth and Jardine, :Mr. Willis Earle and daughter, l\Iiss
Lutyens, 1\lr. Willis Earle, jun. Mr. Thomas Hodg!'on,
Mr. Martin, :\.Yr. Josiah Williamson, Mr. French, and
several other gentlemen and ladies were present. Miss
M'Avoy was covered exactly the same as yesterday,
with the gold beater's skin, muslin, and velvet. The
mode of blindfolding her was examined with minute
• There was a little difference in the size ofthe bottle~, but she did not ap-
pear to judge from the form ofthe bottles, as the bottle "·as held about the mid·
dle, and was ne"er examined as to the length.
In C '
231
attention, and every person appeared satisfied that the
coverings were sufficient for the purpose.«= A few silki
were given to her, which she named correctly. She then
told the colours upon a piece of variegated marble;
but she did not name them quite correctly. She de-
,clared. the red, the whitish, but not any other colour
correctly. A very dark green colour she said was brown
or black. Shf) told the time of the day in three or four
watches to half a minute, and she affected a sort of in-
dignant pleasantry at Dr. Brandreth having attempted
to deceive her, by putting '"hite paper over the dial
pia te of his watch, which she !mmediately detected.
She read several lines in two books, both ,,·ith and with·
out the magnifying glass, g<:!ne.rally with correctue~s,
and also in a printed paper gh·en to her by Mr. J. Wil-
Jiamso:l. She told through a plain g·lass a guinea, two se-
parate shillings of the new coinl'ge, with their superficial
bearings; and two plain shillings of the old coinage. In
the one she obsen·ed that it was crooked, and in the
other that there was a dark line, which originated from
the upper part of the head not being entirely defaced,
Another guinea, which was placed upon the left side of
the others, she did not obsen·e. She told the reflected
image of a gentleman's (1\1 r:Lyall) coat and hat; she
de&cribed his eyes to be shut, and then to be open again,
and that he had brown hair. A lady was placed ap-
parently in a situation to '!>e reflected from the mirror,
but I presume it could not be so, as Miss l\f'Avoy only
described the riband of the chip bonnet she wore, which
was so large and conspicuous, that her figure was scarce-
ly perceptible in the line of reflection. She told ·the
colour of two stones in two rings which were given tG
• Except Mr. Martin, who at first agreed, but aft~rwards diesented from
tho general opinion.
IV C I r IZ y l
232
her. She named correctly three or four wafers, which
Mr. Wilbraham gave me to present to her.
Mrs. Gaskell presented to her a book, when Miss
M'Avoy retired, being oppressed with heat, as there
was a great number of persons in the room, which she
named correctly, when corered with the goggles, to be
of a reddish hue. She declared the same of this book
when placed in such a situation as to be reflected from
the mirror. After these experiments, Drs. Brandreth,
Jardine, and I examined the eyes. The left pupil ap-
peared at least six times more dilated than the right,
which has not been usually the case, and it was almost
of a pentagonal form. Could the belladonna applied
yesterday have produced this effect? There seemed to
be no contractile power in the pupil of either eye.
October lst.__:Mr. Hughes adyertised his intention
ofadmitting no parties to yisit his step-daughter in future,
as his family affairs, the comfort of his wife and ofhimself,
independent of the danger, accruing to Miss !\I'Avoy
from theseevery-dayexaminations, ofinjuringher health,
were ai stake. It was understood, however, that it might
be possible to gain entrance to-day, as permission had
.been granted to a few friends of Mr. Thomas to visit Miss
l\I'Avoy. The room was almost inundated with ladies
and gentlemen. Amongst the persons present, I ob-
served l\Jr. Wolsely, who introduced me to his friend
the Rev. Dr. Mason, of New York, Mrs. Wolsely, Mr.
and Mrs. Samuel Hope, Dr. Freckleton, Mr. Peacock,
Mr. J. Myers and his sisters, Mr.J. Baines, Mr. J. Smith,
and se\·eral other individuals whom I did not know.-
The late mode of covering the eyes with gold beater's
skin was adopted. The veh·et made use of was thinner
than that which had been used before, being silk velyet.
U .._ I
233
Thii, however, was of little consequence, as the first co-
vering had before beP.n placed over the eyelids when
closed down.
Se,·eral colours of silks, liquids, and papers, were gi·
ven to her, which she told generally correctly. A bottle
of water, and one ofspiritsof wine, of equal weight, were
placed one after the other in her hand; but I am not
certain whether she named them correctly in the first in-
~tance, as I was not sufficiently guarded to see which was
the water and which the spirits of wine, before I placed
them in her hand. She told the colour of the paper
which covered them at the top, as I had received them
this morning from Mr. Robert Clay, in Ranelagh-street.
I afterwards gave one into each hc.nd, and she declared
which phial contained the water, and which the spirits
of wine. Upon examining them, I found she was correct
tn her statement. Different watches were gh·en to her,
and she named the time of the day exactly, the colour
of the metal, and the hands. Dr. Mason altered the
time of the day in his watch, and it was placed in a line
with her eyes, and she to!d the time of the day, but was
not able to tell the colour of the hands. She did not
name a colour under a hat, which Dr. Mason gave her,
nor did she tell the colourof the lining. She named the
colours tolerably correct in two or three shawls; but
she once asked if a green shawl were.black ; and, in de-
acribing the shade of the green, she said it was a bot·
tle green, but it was a much ligbter green. The reflect~
ed hnare of Dr. Freckletoo, from a mirror, she named
through a ptain glass, as a gentleman of pleasing face and
Jight hair. A pair of spectacles were put upon his face
which she detected, and she told when they were taken
oft'• . She named the colour of the Claude Lorraine
Jlasse•lncorrectly. Miss M'Avoy read a word here ~nd
Gg
U c.; I
' .\
~
... 234
there, but not in the correct manner I have observed her
to do~ When the gold beater's skin was taken off, Dr.
Maso.n, .Dr. ·Fre~kleton, and other persons expressed
themselves, as if they thought it must hav~ blindfolded
her. The skin of the cheek bad been drawn out as it
was taken ~if, and the eyelids appeared perfectly closed.
A large party remained in the back room after I left the
bouse; and she went through a variety of experiments
much more correctly than before. She told the bottles
which contained spirit of wine and water exactly two or
three times: She declared the face of a gentleman, re-
flected through the plain glass from the mirror, to be the
same gentleman whom she had named before.
Dr. Freckleton mentioned the circumstance of Miss
M'A\'OY taking a pair ofscissars from her mother, when
offered to her, as if she could see; and be 11lso said, that
in going to take some papers from the chimney piece ·
be was afraid she would have thrown down two bottles
be had placed there, and ofwhich she was not aware, if
be had no~ prevented her.
If1 were called upon to decide in any other case, I should certainly think
the evidence I have·adduced aspositive as it well could be, but the public ,,.ill
judgewhetherit be so ornot. The names 1havementioned aremostofthemwell
known in Liverpool, and the neighbourhood ; but they form only a very small
part of the number which visited her from different parts of the country.-
~fany whom I had never seen ga,·e their own report of her powers, and it \~a.<
from this report the public at a di<tancc wa• informed of them, long before l
published the Narrath·e, !tis somewhat extraordinary thatthe assertion ofa
fewindividuals shouldhave had such influence against the evidence ofso many
"·itncsses of the facts;'but it h probable the stronger evidencewas not examined
so attenti\·ely as lhe ,...eaker ; bccauso the weaker had the aid of prejudice,
fout~ded upon certain established theories, to 111pport it. It was ur~, also,
:With a degree of violence not always indicative of the truth. I i theopponents
?f l\liss l\l<Avoy had gone more coolly nnd deliberately into the examination,
they would han .avoided the censure which Statius has pa~scd upon similar
characters., that
.... 4-, /i. '' :'IIal~ cuncta ministrat
J ,
" Impetus."'
Un Ca If 01 t1 d b OS
235
THE FOLLOWING ACCOUNT
b transcribed from th¢
" Liverpool, July 30th, 1817, eight o'clock, P. 1\l.-
Waited on Miss M'Avoy; found her very unwell, ex-
pecting her fits to come on e~·ery minute: was unable·
to.distinguish any colours; declared that I' was taller.'
than my brother; ~ercei\·ed this when we passed her in.
the lobby; told me, when I passed, whether I had my,
bat on or not.
''July 31st, eleven .A. ~r.-Found Miss M'Avoy in
good spirits; had passed the night in almost one cooti- .
nued fit. Having completely blim\folded her, we made
the following experiments:~
" Experi~ent I.-Presented six different coloured
wafers, pasted between two plates of common window
glass. She first laid her fingers on the red wafer; and
named it. Does it not appear like.a piece of red Cloth_?
She answe~ed, no, I think it.is 11 wafer. The.six: wafer,s
..
!he named as follows :-dark ruby, red, black, green,
stone colour, or light drab, pea green. She pointed out
unasked, the cracks, openings, and deficiencies of the
wafers. She said the glass was white.
" Experiment II.-Sh~ traced the outline of a very
irregular figure, formed by squeezing the portions of
two wafers, one black, the other red, between two plates
of glass.
" Experiment 111.-The seven prismatic colours being
painted on a card, in water colours, sheo gave them the
following names :--:-scarlet, buff, yellow, green, light
blue, dark blue, or purple lilac.
"Experiment IV.-The red an~ orange rays of the
solar spectrum being thrown by a prism upon her hand,
!he said it appeared as iold. - All the colours being
thrown on the back of her h:md, sh~ distinctly described
the different colours- on the ~ifferent p~rts of her ~and.
She'mluked th~ m-
oments'when the colours became faint,
and again vivid, by the occasional passage of a cloud,
\Vitho~t being desired to do so. ':('he prismatic colours
ha\·e afforded her the greatest pleasure which she has
experience~ since her blindness.' Ne,•er saw a prism in
her life. She felt the spectrum warm. ':('he violet rays
were the least pleasan~.* - · ·
,.
"Experiment V.-She perceived the co~oured rin~
formed by pressing together two polished plates ofglaS;.
Feels them at the edge of her fingers flying before them.
• She observed that the red rays appeart'd warm~r and more pleasant than
the violet; which, opinion coincides with tltat of Dr. Herschel!, who proved
tbe great dilft!rence of heat ~tween the dill'rrent prismatic rays.
Um vM1 r so
237
Feels the reflected rays much better than th&- traJU.o
mitted: could just perceive the latter.
" Experiment VI.-The prism being put into her
hand, she declared it was white glass; but on turning it,
she immediately said, ' No, it is not, it is coloured, it bas
colours in it;' and she traced.what she called stripes of
colours, ribands, one coloured stripe above another.
Could discover no colours on that side of the prism on
... .
which the direct rays of the light fell.
" Experiment YII.-~everal attempts were made to
discover colours in the dark, by presenting different
coloured objects to her hands, concealed under a pillow.
She always failed ; every thing appeared black. On one
~c~asion she s~id a gr~en card was yellow..
~' Experiment VUI.-~he read a line or two in small
print, by feeling the letters. Read through a convex
lens at the distance of nine inches; the focal length o£
the lens was fourteen inches.* Reads much easier
. .
throng~ t~is lens than without; the letteril appear lar-
ger, and as if they were p~inted, on th~ glass. When a
hand was interposed between the lens and the book, she
immediately perceived it: a penknife was laid on the
line which she was reading, and she named it.
I I • ' 1 . . :
~'Experiment IX.-A concave lens was put into her
han4; she tried to read ''at the.distance of seven or eight
inches; said all the ·letters ate confused; she moved
• ~he lncreated power of distinguishing minute olljects through a eotll'ell:
!!lass'is curious, because she does not hold the glass within the fOcus of the
tye, but as it were within the focus of the point of the finger, which would -
appear in ·this case, to serve the purpose of theeye.
238
the len! gradually toward! the paper, and observed
the letters were very sm_
all ; could not read easily until
the lens was laid on the papPr.
" Experiment X;- When she touched a plane glass
mirror, could not perceive · any reflected image, but
that of her own fingers. I feel, she says, the picture of
my own fingers.
" Experiment XI.-Distinguished by the feel, the dif·
ference between polished glass and cairngorum chrys·
tal; between .silver, steel, gold, and brass: gold and silver
have the finest feel. rhe,silver of a watch case felt finer
than t'he gold of the seal. She distinguished between
ivory, tortoise shell, and horn: which last she called bone,
but seemed to h1n-e meant horn. A pin which was sup-
posed to be a cbrystal, she pronounced to be glass; after-
wards, on trial it proved to be glass.
"August 1st, eleven o'clock A.llt.-Miss M'Avoy much
the same as yesterday.
" E:;periment XII.-Read. common print easily by
touching a piece of window glass held twelve inches from
the book; at a greater distance she could not read, but
could read much easier when the glass was brought
nearer to the book. In like manner·, and at the same
distance, she discovered a sixpence, half-guinea, three-
shilling piece, &c. she mentioned which had the head,
which the reverse upward~, read the dates, pointed out
on the sixpence, lbe position of the harp, lions, crown, ·
&~. She obsen·ed, unasked, that one half-guinea was
crooked ; said it did not lie flat on the paper; that the
crown was d6wnwartl ; that it was not a brass counter:
does not think it is the shadow of the half-guinea which
makes her know it to be crooked. -
Umv Calif 01 t1 ed M 0 t
239
" Experiment XIII.-Declared, by feeling on the plaitl
glass, at the distance of three or four inches, that two
substances below were a red and a white rose leaf. Be-
ing asked if it \vas not red and white paper, or cloth;
replied no, it is a ro'e leaf.
"Experiment XIV.-Again, she distinguished by the
feel, the difference between stone and glass ear-rings,
seals, 'brooches, &c. and pointed out one gla~s seal,
which was supposed to be a chrystal; being tried by a
file, it proved to be glass. She named the colours ofall
the different articles. She :my~, itone feels more solid
than glass, more firm.*
" Experiment XV.-Could not discover colours by
the tongue; but closing between her lips, the red, yel-
low, blu~, and white petals of flowers, she told each
accurately.
"Experiment XVI.-She told the prismatic colours as
accurately as on the preceding day, whether cast on the
back, or on the palm of the band; said she perceived
~omething black on her hand ; observed when it mo\·ed,
and when it was stationary. Being bid to mo~·e her fin-
gers, she exclaimed, Oh! it is the shadow of my own fin-
gers-which was the fact.
f/
"Experiment XVII.-Uncovering her eyes, we cast the
most brilliant prismatic colours upon her eyes, which she
• Sight could have little or no influence in the distinction of glas! frlllll the •
harder stones; lmtances are not wanting where she has described the colour
and sort of stoneIn situations where only her fingers were in contact with it,
and where no person, not even herself, if she had sight, could see thestone at
the time she described the colour. We may therefore safely imagine this
power to be derived from a similar source to that which occasioneJ her di~tinc·
tlon of colouu, met:tls, &c.
1C o oft
240
received firmly, without either winking or shewing any
signs that she was aware of it. The most rapid vibra-
tions of the same light did not produce the smallest ef-
fect; her eyes remained perfP.ctly firm and motionless:
When the prismatic spectrum Wlls thrown npon her mouth
and cheeks, sbe percei~ed that there were colours on her
face, but could not describe them so easily, or so accu-
rately, as when they WeJ'e thrown upon her hands.
" Experiment XVIII.-She distinctly felt, through a
plain glass, at the distance of four inches, the prismatic
colours thrown upon a white paper.
" Experiment XIX.-With her bands upon the win-
dow, perceived two newly cut stones, of a yellow co-
Jour, lying one on the other against a wall on the other
side of the street; distance about twelve yards; also, a
lleap of cast iron railing, piled upon each other. One
of the company being dispatched to place himself on the
ground, stones, rails, &c. she mentioned whenever he
tnoved his position; perceh,ed him jump otf the railing;
mentioned the colour of his dress correctly, on~y said
a plumb coloured coat was black: mentioned two chil-
dren accidentally passing by at the same time. She said
they appear very small indeed; the person who was
sent appeared about two feet high, when at the distance
oftwelve yards; as he came nearer, she observed, that
she felt him grow bigger. All objects appear as ifpaint-
edon the glass.*
" Auguit 2d, ele\·en o'clock, A. M.-J:.~ound Miss
M'Avoy much agitated; was unable to distinguish co·
• Vide note upon Mr. E. Smith•s11biervation upon tbls Experiment, at 1M
~d ofthis Lettet;•
/
241
.lours; her agitation increased at the arrival of many
visitors; her pulse rose from 96 to 120; attempted seve-
ral times to distingui$h different coloured clothes, but
all in ,·ain ; at length became unable to stand.
1 ' Five o'clock, p.m.-Found Miss M·A~oy qui~e re-
covered; had been in two or three fits after we left her
this morn.ing. Pulse 96. Her touch in the finest order.
. .
Experiment 'x:X.-A stone ornament, in the shape of
an orange, she took for a real orange, at the distance of
two or three inche~, feeling through the plain glass ; at
the distance of fifteen inches it appeared like a nut, the
brightness of the colour not diminished ; at thirty inches
it appeared no larger than a pea-colour still vivid-
still imagines it to be an orange. When she touched it,
she immediately found out her m!stake.:i:
"~xperiment XXI.-An orange and an apple, (stone
ornaments) being placed at different distances, she told
which was the nearest-dista~ce, five or ~ix inches; felt
them both upon the glass, but the orange appeared
smaller, and therefore she thought it farther off.
~
" Experiment XXli.-Accurately described the fea-
tures, &c. of two persons wqom she had never seen be-
fore-distance of the piaiil glass from the face, three or
four Inches.
" Experiment XXIII.-Perceived her own face in a
plain glass-distance, three or four inches; at a greater
• How are we to reasonupon this El(periment? If the object bad been dil·
tinguished by sight, the intervention ofthe glasses could makelittle difference
in the size of it; nor could the small distance have a material eft"ect in dlmi•
nishing it.
nh
Umv C f Dm1t1z MIC 0
\
distance her face appeared very small; saw her face
also reflected from a plain mirror, holding the plain glass
at three or four inches distance from the mirror. When
the mirror was withdrawn, said her face diminished.
All objects constantly appear as a picture on the glass
she touches.
" Experiment XXIV.-Perceived the sun through a
plain glass; also the reflected image of the sun from a
plain mirror; was not dazzled with it; found it very
pleasant.
" Experiment XXV.-Several small articles were held
over her bead; she perceived them all in her plain glass;
she asked doubtingly, if a three shilling piece was not a
guinea; bat raising her glass, and bringing it nearer to
the object she corrected her error.
" Experiment XXVI.-With her fingers on the win-
dow, described a work-man in the street; distance, ten
yards; a cart, loaded with barrels of American flour;
another, with two loaves ofsugar; a third empty; a girl
With a small child in her arms; &c. all accurately true,
except that there were three loaves of sugar in the se-
cond cart.
"Experiment XXVII.-Could not distinguish by the
touch the difference between pure water, and a solution
of common salt in water.
" Experiment XXVIII.-Accurately described by th~
touch several small engravings.''
Umv Caltf Dig· tz d by M1 rosoft
• 243
OF
.]Ill.. EGERTON SMITH.
-
Mr. Egerton Smith expressed a wish that the Memo~
. ! ~
randa respecting Miss 1\t'Avoy, published in the Liver~
....
pool Mercury, should be inserted ~i,th the other letters
in the Appendix of the Narrative·, lest it should be
supposed he believed in the powers ascribed to her.
It gave me pleasure to comply with Mr. E. Smith's re-
quest, and I then said I had no wish to gain a single pro-
selyte to my opinion, unless he were convinced of the
fact; but I could scarcely avoid thinking, that the proof
Mr. E. Smith had gh·en of Miss M'Avoy's powers, in
his own presence, and, at the time, to the apparent con·
viction of his own mind; would have more weight with
the public, than the bare assertion of his disbelief of
them, founded upon the opinion of oth~r individuals.
In this Continuation of her Case, I have also preferred to
•
give his observations, together with his.experiments, that
the public may judge of them, rather than separate them
from each other.
Some time in September, 1816, I accompanied Dr.
Renwick, on a professional visit he paid to Miss M'Avoy,
at her residence in St. Paul's Square, on the east side.
She was then between sixteen and seventeen years of
age; of pleasing and ingenuous conntenance, and appa·
rently of amiable and artless disposition. Her mother
informed me, that in the pree:eding June her daughter
bad been attacked with hydrocephalus, or water in the
bead, together with a paralytic affection on one ~>ide, and
R complication of other disorders, which I forbear to
enumPrate ; because I am who1ly ignorant of that part Qf
the subject, which will no doubt be minutely detailed in
the publication alluded to. According to her own state-
ment, corroborated by that of her mother, the hydroce-
phalus preceded, and, in their opinions, prodnced the
blindness or gutta serena,-under which she is supposed
to labour, but which bas been ca1Jet1 in question, I ~nder­
stand, by some of the professional men ll'ho hav~ vi~i.ted
her.* . ' . "· , ' .. ..
Her mother, l~o,ye'·~r, declared tbat the lig~t of th~
sun produced not the slightest sensible effect ~pot;~ he1:
~yes; and some of th~ profcssio~al gent!erne!! who hap-
pened to be pr~sent at ope 9f my r~peatcd visits, d~clar­
ed that ih?~gh some slight contraction ?f ~he p~1,pil was
perceptibl~ upon the approac~ of a lig·hted candle to the
~ye, it was by ~o means such ns uniformly occurs whe~
the visual organs perform the regular functions.
• • . • 1 l ! . - . . , • , . . ,;
. At my first ip.tervie.~, I ~enrneq from he,rs~V. what I had
~ndeed pre~io~8~Y been told by others, that she bact re-
cently acquir~d the fo.cu\ty of distinguishing, not only
• • l• • • f , . • • • • .
the colours ?f c~ot~ and stail)ed glas~, b~t ~hat she c?uld
actually decypher the forms ofword:o; of~ p~inted \.lOok i
and, indeed, co,Ild read, if the phrase ma;y be permitted,
~itb tolerable facility. To put these p~etcD!<ions to the
. •I( this opinion be questioned,; it must be against the evidence or the
symptoms which occurr~ previous to the convulsions 'll'hich took place, and
to the discharge of the fluid from the brain.· · · ' · ' . ~
,·
Univ Caltf- Dtgltfzed by Mt r ~oft
245
t~~t, jlh~ p~rmitted a shawl to be passed across the eyes, in
4ouble folds, in such a way that all present were con-
vinced, that they could not, under similar circumstance~,
discern day from night. In this state, a book was placed
before be~, and opened indiscriminately; when .to our
extreme surprise, she began to trace the words with her
finger, and to repeat them correctly. She appeared to
recognize a short monosyllable by the simple contact of
one finger; but in ascertaining a long word, she placed.
the fore finger of her left hand on the beginning, whilst
with that of her right hand, she proceeded from the
oiher extremity of !he word; and when the two fingers,
by having traversed over all the letters, came in contact
,-ith eacb ~th~r, she invariably and precisely ascertained
the ~vord. By my watch, I found that she read about
thirty words in half a minute ; Bnd it very naturally oc•
~urred to us, that if, notwithstanding her supposed blind-
ness, and the double bandage over the eye!'l, she' could
~till see, s~e woul~ have read much more rapidly, if her
~otive had b~~n t~ excite our astonishment. And here
it may not be amiss to state, that there does not appear
to be any adequate moth·c for practising a delusion upon
the public. Her situation in life is respectable; and her
mother disavows any intention of ever exhibiting her
(laughter as a means of pecuniary remuneration. Fifteen
~10nths have now elapsed since the period at which she
laid claim to the extraordinary faculty which bas ghren
rise to so much curiosity, a·stonishment, and perplexity;
during which time .the reputation ofso wonderfuld a cir-
cumstance has subjected her to the fatigue and inconve-
nience of daily and almost houfly visits.
According to her own statement, her powers of touch
vary ~ery materially with circumstances. When her
hands are cold, she declares that the faculty is altoge-
Umv Cc1ftf D [Jit1zed by M1croso
I
S246
ther lost; and that it is exhausted, also, by long and un·
remitted efforts; that she considers the hours of from ten
until twelve, of each alternate day, the most favourable
for her performance. H13r pulse during the experiments,
has v~ried fron:i 110 to ISO degrees.
One circumstance, which bas created much doubt and
!mspicion, must not be concealed; which is, that if any
,substance, for instance, a book or a shawl, be interposed
between her face and the object she is investigating, she
is much embarrassed, and frequently entirely baffled. She
explain's'this, by saying that it is necessary there should
be an udinterrupted communication between her fingers
and he~ breath.«= I leave it to others to draw their own
conclusions upon this point: as my object is not to esta·
blisb any theory, orgive currency to any mystery, but to
relate the simple facts. I am, therefore, compelled to
express my conviction that she can neither ascertain co-
lours, nor the words of a book, in total darkness;
and, as many persons very naturally will ask, why has
not such a test been proposed? The reply must be, that
as the young lady is not the subject of a public exhibi-
tion and as an introduction to her is merely a matter of
favour, it might not be very courteous or delicate, under
such circumstances, to make any proposal which seemed
to imply a suspicion !hat she was an impostor:
There are persons, however, who, giving her implicit
credit for the reality of the extraordinary powers to
~ .
• This opinion I have stated to be erroneous. The same effect was pro•
duced when uncovered, or when a plate or glass intervened between her
mouth and the ob;ect, through which she might have seen, iCthe object were
distin!llished by vision. I therefore presume her frequent failures, when
obstructions oC this kind took place, to have been raused by this interruption
producing a peculiar effect upon the nervous systelll.
Univ Caltf Digitized by MJcr soft
247
which she lays claim, will contend that it is altogether
unfait· to propose the test oftotal darkness. . Proceeding
upon their belief that she ~ctually ascertains colour, &c.
by the finger, or that the visual organ is transferred to
the tonch ; »till they say that light is essentially neces-
sary to produce that effect upon the surface of the body
felt, which enables her te distinguish one shade from
another: they add, that as there is no such .thing as
colour in total darkness, it is perfectly ridiculous to ex-
pect that she should ascertain the various shades with-.
out the presence of that light which alone produces those
shades. It is, according to their mode of considering
the subject, as absurd as to expect an effect without a
cause.
It has already been stated, that, with the double ban-
dage over her eyes, she read se\·eral lines of a book in-
discriminately opened; as it was possible that the letters
of a printed book might have some slight impression sen-
sible to an exquisite touch, J too]{ from my pocket book
an engraved French assignat, which was hot-pressed and
smooth as glass; she read the smallest lines contained in
this, with the same facility as the printed book. A letter
received by that day's post was produced, the direction
and post mark of which she immediately and correctly
decyphered.
She also named the colour of the separate parts of the
dresses of the·persons in company, as well as various
shades of stained glRSs, which were purposely brought.
What I had seen at my first interview was so extremely
astonishing, and so far surpassed any thing I had e\·er
known or read of the powers ascribed to persons depriv·
~d of sight, that I could only account for it on the snp·
a/if D1 1t1zed by M cr soft
248
position that she was not blind, and tbaf she had some se·
cret·mode of discerning an object notwithstanding the
bandage, through which T myself, could not distinguish
night from day, when it was applied to.my own eyes. l
therefore made the best apology I could for \risiting her
house again the same evening, h~ving previously pre·
pared myself with several tests, which I begged permis;.
sictn to submit to her examination, when the candle was
withdrawn. Not the slightest objection was offered to my
proposal, and the candle was extinguished: her mother
stationed herself before the firt>, which was extremely
low, and afforded so little light that I could not have
read one word of moderate sized print, if it had been
brought almost in contact with the bars of the grate. I
then took from my pocket a small book, the type ot
which was very little larger than that of ari ordinary
newspaper; observing at the time, that I was afraid the
print was too minute; to which she replied, that her
fingers were in excellent order, and that she had no
doubt but she should be able to make it out. The can-
dle, 'as was before observed, had been extinguished :
and her mother and myself were so stationed that had
there beeil any light nff~rded by the fire, we must ha\'C
intercepted it. Miss l\I'Avoy sat in the furthest part of
the ·room, with her back towards the' grate, in such rl
situation that I could barely discern even the leaves of
the book which lay open before her; the title of which
she proct>eded to read with complete success, with the
exception of one very minute word.
I then p1·esented to her a small piece of smooth
writing paper, which was ruled with horizontal faint
blue lines, between each of which were traced lines
with a pen and black ink: there were also perpendi·
cu{ar red lines, between which were scored black lines.
U tv Cart Digtt zed by Mt ,o
249
All these, with their direction and order, she determined
without ~my apparent difficulty. She also told correctly
the colours of a variety ofpieces of cloth, procured imme,.
diately before at a draper's shop.
All the experiments·hitherto described, as well as those ;,
which follow, were performed by Miss l\'I'Avoy, with the
bandagP. before her eyes ; and as the shawl, which was
usually applied to this purpose, produced considerable
warmth and inconvenience, a pair of what, in the optici-
ans shops, are called gogglers, had been provided, which
:so completely excluded the ~igbt, that no person who
tried them, could discern the difference between day and
night, when they were fitted to the faoe. As these gog-
glers have been generally used whc>n Miss M'Avoy has
exhibited her surprising talent, it is neceslmry that the
reader should have a correct idea of them. They are in-
tended to be worn by travellers, to guard the eyes against
the wind or the dust, and consist of two glasses, some-
times green, fitted into a bandage ofleather, which is pass-
ed horizontally acrms the face, and is tied with ribbons
round. tho back of the head. The gogglers provided for
MissM'Avoy, instead ofglasses,were fitted up withopaque
pasteboard, lined with paper, and not an aperture was left
through which a single ray of light could penetrate.
l\fr. Nichol, a scientific gentleman, who wa~ deli't'ering
a course of philosophical lectures in Liverpool, having
heard of this extraordinary property, applied to me to.
obtain an introduction to .Miss M'Avoy, and I accompa-
nied him to her house, along with Mr. James Smith, prin-
ter, of this town. At this interview the experiment• I
have already detailed were rPpeated with complete suc-
cess, whilst t.h.e gogglers were applied. Oue part of the
performance was so truly a>~toui:>hing, that I shoultl al:-
I i
Un 11 C If y M1 Y o,
250
most hesitate to relate it, if those two gentlemen had not
been present, to vouch for the truth. I had furnished
• myself with a set of stained landscape glasses, usual!y
termed Claude Lorrain glasses. They ~ere seven in
number, contained in a frame. She ascertained the pre~
cise shade of each correctly: one glass, however, appear~
ed to embarrass ber, and after considerable scrutiny, she
said it was not black, nor dark-blue, nor dark-brown; but
~he thought it was a Yery deep crimson. We did not
know whether her conjecture was correct or not, as we
could not ourselves ascertain the shade. By re6ected
Jight it appeared to us to be perfecfly black; nor was the
:flame of the fire, which was stirred for thk occasion, visi-
ble through it in the faintest degree. We bad abandoned
all expectation of determining tl!is point, when the sun
suddenly emerged from behind the clouds; and by that
test, and that alone, were we enabled to discover that she
was correct, as we couldjust discern the solar image of a
very d.eep crimson, It has been said, and with some plau-
~>ibility, that this must have been a bold guess upon her
part: if not, it will puzzle our physiologists to explain,
how a person reputed to be blind, with an opaque ban-
dage also over her eyes, could declare the colour of a
glass, which persons in full' enjoyment of their eyesight,
and without any snch obstacles, could not discern by any
other light thap. that of the weridi!ln sun! ·
I •lt,
At this mee1ing we were informed that Miss lVI'Avoy
had recently found out that this extraordinary faculty
was not confined to her fingers, and that she could also
'di~tinguish the colour pf;m object which was brought in~
to contact with the back of her hands. This was imme-
diately made the subject of experiment by Mr. Nichol,
who successively applied seyeral objects whicb he had
with him, to that port of the hand; in placing which, he
Umv Caftf Dtqittzed by Mtcrosoft
llied so much precaution, that I could not see them my•
self, although my eyes were fixed upon his bands. She
was completely successful, also upon this occasion.
I have now given a faithful narrative of what i have
actually witnes~ed, and what has been·the subject of no-
toriety and astonishment probably to thotisands in this
town; and I shall only trespass further on the public p•t-
tience, whilst I briefly ~tate what has been related to me
by several professional gentlemen of the town, as the re•
suit of their ~xperimeot~, since the time when I discon-
tinued my visits, for a reason which candour obliges me
not to conceai, alihough I ani loath to say any thing
which might wound the sensibility of an individual who
has afforded me such amusement, 1\nd uniformly received
me with the utmost affability and politeness. I have ne-
ver believed it possible that all the experiments i have
witnessed were performed by the simple medium of toucfi;
and though i admit \Vith our master poet; that" tltere are
more fhing!f 'twixt heaven and earth tlwn our pltiloso-
phy dream$ of," yet I could never divest myself of the
impression that the eye· was in some way ot other con-:-
cerned in these mysteries.* 1t was a delicate point, as 1
before observed, to scrutinize too closely into all the mi•
nutire ofa performance which was gratuitous, and politely
conceded to a stranger, in her own house, and which,
however it can be explained, Is abundantly wonderful. As •
I could not however, like some of my friends, become a
proselyte to these miracles, I did not think proper any
longer to harrass her with an inipertinent and hopeless
curiosity. She had begun to assume powers of a more ex..
• If the reader look orily to the a.'<Sertions of ~fr. Smith, he mi~ht receivli
them as proofs; but if he attend to the facts related bJ the same gcntlell\an,
his assertions will wei~h very light in the balance.
llniv C If D y tcrosoft '
252
traordinary character than any I have described, and by
proving too mnch, shl' defeated her own object,at least in
my imperfect estimation.
I had seen her 'seven ·or eight till\es in the course of a
1-·ery few weeJcs, previous to my declining my visit~>; but
still continned to hear of her, from those whose faith had
survived mine, and is as lively to the full at this moment as
it was fifteen months ago. From these, her truly faith·
ful followers, I heard that the experiments I have de·
tailed, and many others had been repeated, with the
boiled whites of eggs fixed upon the eyes; and, also, that
gold beater's skin had been usl'd for the same purpose;
~he had also begnn to tell the hour and minnte through
the wat~h glass, without opening the case! But the most
wonderful thing of all, i\nd which forms an approptiate
cl}max to the other mysteries, was the newly acquired
power of ascertaining objects at a distance, with her back
towards them ; aild by simply stretching out the fingers
in the direction of sncb ·object! I have heard it grav-ely
asserted, and \1orrobo)'ated by herself in an interview on
Monday last, that she has thus from her parlour window
identified several persons passing through St. Paul's
church yard, ·and declared the colour of their dress,
&c.'!!!*
• This ls certai~ly one of those facts whlch cannot be 'believed upon mere
hearsay ; a~d I hardly wonder at Mr. E. Smith not giving credit to it; but
from his own experiments he mu•t, at least, have supposed her to po€SCSS
peculiar powers. 1t is ctrtainly as reasonable, therefore, to presume from this
examination, that the success he met ·with mi~;ht be ually owing to her varied
powets oftouch, not to any peculiar acuteness in vibion; because therearethe
strongest proofa of the first opinion being correct, not only from what he has
stated, but from the circumstance that some of his own experiments have
'been corrobora~cd by those ofother individua:Is. Of the )attcr opinion, of her
·posses~ing a peculiar acuteness in vision, Mr. Smith has given no proof.
The faet ofher stating objects Lhrongh the window, or upon therailing·oet'h!
Umv Cal f D g tued by M
253
In the preceding protracted, but faithful narrative, it
has been my object to detail facts rather than to indulge
in theories.
Whatever contrariety of opinions Jr!SY'prevail on this
point amongst true believers or sceptics, there are two
conclusions, to one of which they cannot withhold their
assent:-
First-Either Miss M'Avoy, although blind, possesses
the faculty of distinguishing objects and colours by the
touch. or some other means than the eyes ;-or, ·
Secondly~Miss M'Avoy, reputed to be blind, and with
a bandage over her eyes, through which no other person
can see; in a place, also, so dark that others can distin-
guish little or nothing, can see better than any other
person.
Leaving to phy::iiologists the further investigation ofthis
extraordinary ·case, I shall, for the present, conclude, by·
aftixing to the preceding statements my name at full
length, which I conceive to be indispensable in the pre·
sent instance.
(Signed)
EGERTON Sli!ITH.
Liverpool, Sept. 2, 1817.
Church yard, or in the street, has been witnessed ·by many persons. Miss
M'Avoy wasgenerally covered with thegoggles, standingin a natural position,
with her face neither elevated nor -depressed, but the middle of it, as it were,
meeting an horizontal line drawn from the Communion end of St. Paul's
Church; so that ~greeing for one moment with her opponents, she could sec
down the Sides of the nose, the only way, supposing she had the faculty of vi-
sion, they assert she can see, when facingobjects in the street, or in the Church
yard, (the furthest distance being seventeen feet and.nine inches from the win-
dow), a line drawn from the point or sides of the nose, "ouhl fall into the par-
lour where she stood, au'd ot -eourfe could not be directed to the object she
described.
Ur IV C I f Dtql IZ d by ..,.ro oft
254
From a due consideration of the proofs adduced abovt!,
the Public will have a better opportunity ofjudging cor·
rectly, than it could have done, by reading only one side
of the question. Miss M'Avoy is also still in being, so
that individuals may make, if they choose, a personal in-
quiry into her state of health, &c.~ by these means they
can form their own opinion, which ought to be more sa-
tisfactory to themselves; than that of any other per-
son.
It is probable atso Mr. Sandars will now agree with
me, that · partial statements of a case of this nature
can never be effective in elucidating the truth; that the
open avowal of those circumstances which were for or
against Miss }.f'Avoy; could only convince an impartial
mind; that, in attempting to influence the public against
an oppr:_essed individual, from so slight an evidence as
that produced by himself, from an almost momentaryex•
amination, or from the assertion of others, whom he has
dragged into his serviceupon this occasion, he has laid him·
self open to public censure ; and that, although for a time
he has had the ball at his foot, and has caused mucboblo·
quyto attach to Miss M'Avoy's character, he will yet find
the Italian adage to be true, that " Ogni medaglia hu
il •uo ret,erso,'' ·
· ~
Untv Calif Dtgttued bj:...: t2tosoft
APPENDIX.
Un v all D gt tze b
Univ Calif- D1g1t1zed vy M1croso;
Copies oj the Letlers published in Mr. Joseph San-
dars's Pamphlet, entitled "Hints to Credulity,"
and of the particulars of wlwl passed on the 13th
of October, 1817, w~ related by two Gentlemen;
who were witnesses of the Experiment$ made m~
lhat ilay.
No. 1.-lJfr. Turmeau's Letter to Mr. Sandars.
Sir,
I have received your note, requesting
me to state the circumstances to yon which occurred
during my visit to Miss M'Avoy, on the 24th September·
last. I will, agreeably to yotir desire, and to the best of
my recollection, relate what I saw and heard.
It may be proper to inform you that Dr.•Jardine, Mr.
Bywater, and myself, bad a meeting at my bouse on the
same morning, for the purpose ofarranging our plans of
experiments to be tried in the most satisfactory manner
to ourselves, and to give the least trouble to the young
Lady,ofwboseextreme irritabilityDr.Jar · ehadmost
carefully appri~ed us. At the iime appointe ,'(2 o'clock,)
accompanied by Mr. Bywater, I met Dr. Jardine, and
Mr. Hargreaves at 1\1r. Hu'ghes's, in St. Paul's Square;
as we had been led to expect we should have had Miss
M'Avoy's company to ourselves exclusively, we were
much disappointed, on entering a small room, to find
her surrounded by at least thirty ladies and gentlemen;
the atmosphere of the apartment was certainly oppres-
sive, and whe·n I was informed Miss M'Avoy had already.
been visited during the morning by three or four large
parties, 1 began to fear the experiments we had prepared
would remain in our pockets one in particular, con-
u urO oft
4
trived by Mr. Bywater, we n)uch wished to have tried;
I think it would have been conclusive; so many were
presenting subjects to her, and bet· alleged powers ap·
pearing to be quite exhausted, we agreed not to try it.
When her faculty oftouch seemed to return, by her teJI-
ing the colours of shawls, coats, &c.· I presented a card
itpon which I had put some broad stripes of the primary
colours; she told these accurately, except the yellow,
whieh she called lilac, the exact opposite to yellon; Iter
eyes \'rere then wide open without any ctwei'ing. The
card was reversed, the colours downward, and presented
to her; after feeling a short time, :;;he said she could not
tell the colours. Soon after this, l\'lr. Thonws proceeded
to fasten goldbeater's skin upon her eyes ; the lids being
down, I was attentively watching this oper~tion; when
completed, I observed you on your knees by her side,
looking steadfastly at her eyes: and you exclaimed, .. she
can see, the eyelids are n~t quite clo>)ed; if my eyes were
similarly situated, I could see also." From the infor-
mation we had received of her nen·ous state, I instantly
anticipated the downfal of all our hopes fbr that day,
and begged of Dr. Jardine to call you asid~ and recom-
mend a different conduct. At that titne, no doubt, the
whole of us felt very angry with you; but upon reflero~
tion, this feeling soon left me, as I think strangers should
hnye been apprised of her great .sensibility, either by
those who introduced thetn, or by ii written notice placed
in a conspicuous part of the room. The goggles were
then put on; all power left her; Mr. Thomas said her
l1ands were too cold; she silt n considerable time in this
situation; the heat of the room was great; she appeared
to I.Je faint, and was recommended to retire for a short
time ; the g .,.les were taken off, and she did so. Di-
rectly after is, I found you with. the goggles in the
kitchen, attended by several gentlemen. I a~sistedin fast-
ening thenr upon your face; this done, Mr. Bywater said;
''If you can see now you are a clever fellow." A watch
was presented to you, the time of which yon fold accu~
tat(lly; the same of another; the strings were then tight~
(!ned nbont yonr head, and auotl1er ·watch "'a<> oifered,
by which yon could not tell the time, bitt ~nid it wound
ilp oil the face of it; this was correct.«< We returned to
. 1
" Contrast thi• account with that ofDr. Jardine, pages 143 and 144 of the.
Continuation of the ca~,
.Umv Calif Dtgittzed by Mt ro
5
Miss M'Avoy, who was then in the back parlour, with
the goldbeater's skin only O\·er her eyes. I was told she
bad just before read the address of a letter; when I en.
tered, she wa!! pas:"ing her fingers over the top line of the
Lh·erpool Patent Trade List, which she read correctly,
al;;;o a line in small print under the above. .She was
then cond~cted to the front parlour; the goggles were
applied; l a~sisted in placing and holding the boxes so
that the upper edges should be under the projections of
the eye-Brows, whilst a lady was tying the :-.frings bPhind
her head. During this ceremony, Miss M'At•oy put up
her hallds to rpmove them, saying they were too low
dO\vn. This I prnvented, and took care that the cross-
ing strings under the nose were properly fastened. I
desired her to hold up her head a little, that we might
examine the sil.les of the nose. I was convince>d she
was perfectly blindfolded; Mr. Bywater observed, " If
she can read now, she must obtain her means of sight
from some other source than what I and many others
have long suspected, vi~. by small apertures being left
by the sides of the nose." Some experiments were of-
fered, but all power had left her. Miss M•Avoyretired
soon after this, and the exhibition terminated. When
the Rev. J. Yates said something to you respecting the
abrupt exclamation you bad used, most ofthe company
had left the house; I was fastening some goldbenter's
skin upon one of your eyes (through which you plainly
distinguished colours) when Mrs. Hughes entered the
room, and with some v1rarmth said, "Don't miu,l him,
Sir, he is not worth attending to;" and made use of
language which I thought you bore very patiently, by
not replying, except by making an apology, to her for
what had happened, and appealing to the ladies then
present. Soon after this, you with two ladi8lquitted the
house, leaving l\lrs. Hughe~, Dr. Jardine, 1\lr. :;_'homas,
and myself. We conversed a few minutes upon theoc-
cnrrences that had taken place. Mrs. Hughes l'aid she
did not know who had introduced you to, the party, and
seemed to su«pect yon had come with Dr. Jardine; this
he denied; ~he then sairl you had intruded without any
introduction, and she would take care yon should not
come again ; your conduct had made her daughter ex-
tremely ill: she was up slain, and she (Mrs. H) was
sure she could not recot·er it that day. We all express-
ed our sorrow for what had happened. 1~ taking leave,
Un v (.; Dtgttli~ d by Mt o oft
when descending the steps at the house door, acciden~
tally J turned my head, and to my surprise saw Miss
M•A,•oy standing at the kitchen door, wilh au infttnt in
her arm8, I bad no sooner caught a glimpse of her
than she skipped out of my sight, as if wishing not to be
observed. · · · · ·
I have endeavoured to give you as correct an account
as my memory retains of the facts, and am not at pres?nt
aware of the motives you may have for requesting the
above narrative unless they arise from the note inserted
nt the bottom of your letter to Mr. Hughes; introduced
in Dr. Renwick's late publication.* ' 1 ' • ' •'
I am, ·
¥our obedient servant,
JNO. TUR:&IEAU.
' If.old~street, Nov. 5, 1817.
No. 2,-The Letter of an Anonymou.~ Gentleman.
..
The goggles ~·ere applied. A book which a gen-
tleman present happened to have in his pocket, was
given to her; after passing her fingers repeatedly over
a particular line, shE! placed the ·book upon her knee,
and covering her right hand with her left, she rend as
follows: · · · · " • · · ' · ·
" I will not name them, replied Zelia."
The line, as printed, ·ran thus:
" I will not name them, was Zelia's answer."
A piece ofcrimson and white paper was put into her
hand, with the coloured side down; after feeli'ng at it
some time, she decided that it was·black a'nd white. On
afterwards holding·the paper up to the light, the crim-
~on colour had very much the appearance of being black.
· The !'arne piece of paper, wi~h 'the coloured side up,
was again given to her, (a sheet of writing paper ha,•ing
been previously interposed between her face and her
• :'llr. Turnieau. it would appear from this paragraph, surmises that Mr.
~andars's pamphlet was published out ofspleen to me. Vide this note, page
8, of the Appyndix to the Narrative, and Mr. Sandan's obl!ervation which
f!cca.sioned thJs note. •
Umv Caltf Dtgtt! d y M croso t
7
hands,) she said she conld, not tell what colour it wa~~~;
Qn her saying this, the sheet of paper was withdrawn,
when she immediately told the colours correctly.
A letter was then gh·en her, (the sheet of paper being
interposed, as in the last experiment,) and she was re-
quested to name the colour of the wax with which it
was sealed, and likewise what were the letters upon the
seal. She said the seal was black, but she could not
distinguish what the letters were. The seal was red,
and the letters upon it were sufficiently large to have
enabled a person with any delicacy of touch to havg
told what they were.
No. 3.-J. T. Koster's Leiter to Mr. &mdar$.
Dear ~ir,
In compliance with your request,
I will endeavour to recollect some of the circumstances
1hat occurred at my short visit to Miss M'Avoy. I was
introduced by a friend, and found assembied a very nu- '
n1erous and highly respectable company of ladies and
gentlemen: it was not at the house of her stepfather, but,
~s I understand, the adjoining house, the parlour of
which was more commodious. I kept no memorandum,
b~t on refer~nce to Dr. Renwick's publication, I observe
by the names of part of the company, that it must have
been on the 23d ofSeptember.
After blindfolding the young Lady in the usual man-
ner, a watch was given into her hand, and she told the
1ime exadly, that it wanted six minutes and a half to
three. The routine of experiments were then gone
~hrough, of coloured cards, gowns, shawls, silks in a
phial, and also the mirror; this she held in her hand, and
a gentleman looked into it over her shoulder; she could
not make out any thing; l remarked to him, that if he
would lean farther over, so a~ to see the Lady's face in
the glass, she would more readily receive the impression;
he did so, and she then described his countenance and
the colour of his hair. She was soon after desired to
feel the hair of Mr. William Earle, and tell the colour.~
She either said positively, it is red, or interrogath,ely, is
.... , · .
Umv Ca tf DuJit zed by Mtcro o t
it not red? This gentleman's hair is very grey, and he
wears powder. She was next desired to describe the
colour ofthe hair of Mr. EarJe,who sat nearer to herand
more forward; she felt it, but said she could not tell.
'l'he room being heated by the crowq of company, she
was advised to retire for awhile. In her absence, I sug-
gested to Mr. Earle, that if the young Lady would per-
mit him to .lay his head upon her lap, I was confident
she would discover the colour of his hair; immediately
on her return he did so, and without hesitation she said
it was 'vhite. The elder Mr. Earle does not wear pow··
der, but his hair. is also very grey. Some f~w other ex-
periments were made, when this gentleman said, he had
heard that Miss M'Avoy could di;;coverby the feel, what
was written on the inside of a hat, and he presented to
her the concavity of his own hat sideways; she put her
hand into it, and said she felt nothing; on this a card
wns given to her, coloured on one side a bright red, and
on the other blue; she felt it a long time, and at last she
could not distinguish the colour; here some one re-
marked that thefmully was gone, or going.
I must confess that from what I had witnessed, it ap-
peared to me that thil' intermitting of what is called the
young Lady's faculty, together with the alleged neces-
sity of a free commnnication between her breath and the
object to be distinguished by the touch, are occasionally
extremely convenient. ·
Your's, dear sir, very truly,
J. T. KOSTER.
4th November, 1817.
No. 4.-lJ.fr. C. Worfhinglon's Letter to 1lir. Sandttrs.
Dear Sir,
In compliance with your reql1e!'t, I
purpose stating, as accurately as I can, my ob~en'ations
during a visit I made to Miss l\1'Avoy, I think on the 2d
of September last. I shall confine myselfsolely to facts.
Dr. Jardine kindly obtained permission for me to sec
Miss M'Avoy, and introduced me to her.
Unt Calif D gitt t.•d b
9
As I arrived some time before Miss M'Avoymade her
appearance, I had an opportunity of examining into
the means employed for covering her eyes, when expe ·
riments are made. I was shown the pasteboard screen
described in Dr. Renwick's" Narrative," and the mask
with the goggles, of which the Dr. has given a sketch in
the frontispiece to his publication. Wishing· to satisfy
myself that the goggles were an effectual blind, I had •
them tried on myself. Dr. Jardine had tied the strings
tighter, l believe, than Miss M'Avoy could have borne.
On looking down my no~e, I found I could distinguish
objects immediately below me, without difficulty. I saw
my watch-chain, for instance, I was glad to get rid ofthe
mask; it made me extremely hot, and occasioned an un-
easiness in my eyes, which continued several hours.
When Miss M'Avoy entered, her bands were hot, and
the power had left her. I asked permission to examine
her eyes, which she granted with great good humour.
They appeared somewhat dim, and placed deep. in the
head. On exposure to a strong light, the pupils con-
tracted as much as those in healthy eyes, under similar
circumstances, but I think rather more slowly. I took
an opportunity of darting my fingers rapidly towards
the eye; it did not blink.
Miss M'Avoy, after cooling her hands with a wet
spoog{', said she would try whether the power was re-
tu.rned, before her eyes were covered. Accordingly,
some bits of coloured silk were presented to her one by
one; I was standing close to her, and looked intently
at the eyes, to watch their motions. The three colours
first given her were blue, scarlet, and pink ; she named
them rig·htly, after having felt the bits of silk for a few
seconds; but I observed the eyes were previously direct-
ed to the objects, with a rapid and instantaneous glance.
The next hit of silk was a drab or fawn colour. She did
not tell the colour, nor were the eyes directed to it.
The pasteboard screen, cut to fit the face, and having
its edges covered with cotton-wool, was then applied.
On louking under it, rays oflight werfl perceived between
it and tbe nose. These I e1fectually excluded, by gently
insinuating a little cotton into the interstices that admit-
ted the light, so that it was impossible she conld see any
object placed immediately under the pasteboard, even if
she were not blind. Unfortunately, the power now left
ber, and she failed in e\T
ery attempt. In an$wer to a..
U IV C I f Dtgtf ed y Mtc OS ft
•
10
question I pu(to Miss M'Avoy, she said she preferred
the goggles to the pasteboard.
Miss M'Avoy now retired, and was ab,:ent for a con-
siderable time; on her return she appeared cheerful, and
said she believed sho should now succeed. The goggles
were put on. She distinguished colonrs, told the time
of the day by a watch,· read a few words from a boo!{, a
written note, and an address card, in her usual manner•
During these wonderful performances, one of the com-
pany interposP-d a piece of printed calico between her
face and the object; she immediately perceived it, and
pushed it away in rather an angry manner. On the gog-
gles being taken off, a gentleman of high rank in the
navy closed the eye-lids with his fingers; and the power
instantly left her, though a few seconds before she seem-
ed in full pos~ession of it. I regret I could not prolong
my visit, and witness a few more performances of this
extraordinary young· lady. •
I have now given you a full and somewhat desu!tory
account of what I saw on my ,·i.;;it to Miss .M'Avoy, and
have stated impartially every circumstance that might
appear either to confirm, or im·alidate the idea of her
beingblind. I shall make no comment, but comforting
myself with the conviction that" truth is mighty, and
will prevail," I tiUbscribe myself
Your \'ery sincere friend;
C. WORTHINGTON.
No 5.- The Letter of a Gentleman to J..llr. Sandclt"s.
Sir,
In October, 1816, Mr. Bradbury, author ,
of TraYels in America, acccmpauied by a friend, yisited
l\1 iss l\I'AYoy. His friend had seen this young lady se-
"eral times before, and from wit.nessing some experi-
ments that were tried upon her, was of opinion that she
CI)Uid see; but being anxious that Mr. Bradbury should
abo observe her, he pre\railed upon him to visit her.
.After a few experiments, Mr. B. was so well satisfied that
.Miss l\1'A\·oy could see willt her eyes, that he ceased to
eJ.amine her further, and seated himself by the fire to
wait untif !Jill friend was ready to depart. His friend
Un v Caltf 01 i 1.z.ea
11
made nfew more efforts, to be convinced whether the
opinion he had previously entertained was well or ill·
founded, and proposed, as a final test of her powers,
that she should determine, with her hand behind her
back, the_ colour of a piece of cloth which he brought
with him ~or that purpose. .
After feeling it fur a short period, and being informed.
that she was mistaken in the colour that she guessed it
to ~e, 1\li~s 1\t'A,voy requested permiss.ion to use l:ler
ot):ier hand,; which of course was instantly acceded to•
.After some time bad elapsed, in which she was unsuc-
cessful in her efforts to determine the colour, her mo.;.
tber, ~ho was in the room, and had been engaged in
affixing leather to tile goggles, handed them over to
Mr. B's friend, an4 asked .his opinion, whether it wa~
possible~ in their amende.t:l state, for a person to see with
thein? He unwarily put {hem on him for a few moments~
to ascertain the poin~ demanded, and when he took
them off, he was surprised t6 find that Miss 1\I'Avoy
could tlleri state correctly the colour of the cloth. He
shortly after took lea,-e of her, as he was extremely
desirous of learning from Mr. B.. what had transpire~,
during the time he had 'incautiously put on the goggles;
Mr. B. was equally an~ious to communicate what he
had observed driHng that pf:Jriod, in which, although
apparently heedless of what was passing, he was an at·
tentive observer. Mr. B. then related, that as soon as
l1is friend ~ad put bn the goggles, he _
saw Miss M'Avoy
rapidly glnnce at himself and. his frierid, and acting as
from an apparent ~onviction of not being observed, she
drew the cloth from behind her back; gazed at it quick;
ly, and restored it to .its former situation, before the
gogg·l~s were removed from his friend's eyes. This fact
Mr. Bradbury has related to several respectable Gen·
tlemen, who are fully satisfied of his candour and in.te-
~:rity.
Liverpool, 6th Nov. 1817.
No. 6.-Mr. Lulwyche's Leiier tb JJii-. Sandlir$.
Sir, . .
I recehred your communication on the
aine-ular ca8e of Miss M'A,-oy, from which I understand
b
12
that, iike my~elf, you have doubts·of her possessing that
extraordinary talent, which some persons, even of the
Faculty; give her credit for. I have no particular ob-
jection to your giving publicity to a detail of those ex-
periments I witnessed at her residence some montlls
since; but being anxious to afford this young Lady a
fair opportunity of making a convert of myself to thh•
new Theory, l declined replying to your note sooner, ~
under the hope that I might liave prevailed on her and
her Mother to have allowed another interview, and if
possible to have removed the spelt, which renders me.
for the present incapable of believing, For this pur-
pose, I waited on Mrs. Hughes yesterday, and candidly
informed her that I had been applied.to by yourself, for
these particulars, but that l should have much greater
satisfaction in declaring my belief than my doubts on·
this subject. I was desirous of placing a few pieces ol
coloured glass, in such a situation that they could not
be seen by any human being; though with as much light
thrown upon them as might be required. The result of
ibis simple experiment would have removed all my
doubts, or have confirmed all my su11picions. Tho in-
di'ilposition, however, of Miss 1\l'Avoy, and the great
objection ofher Mother to admit any one in correspon·
dence with yourself, left me no alternative but to pro·
ceed with the facts I am already in po11session of.
I think it was in the early part of }~ebruary, I was in"'
duced to pay this Lady a visit, in company with Mr. J .
Brereton and another Gentleman, for I was unwilliug1
on bare report, to give credence to a statement so very
improbable. Previous to going, we prepared ourselves
'vith a few slips of paper, about sev1:1n inches in length,
and two inches broad; iu th., centre of one of these was
writlcn the word Liverpool; on auother was traced an
oval, ·on a third a square, on a fourth parallel Jine11 cross-
ing each other at small distances, none of which occu-
pied on each slip of paper a greater space than about
two inches. We also provided ourselves with sorne slips
of coloured papers, from a neighbotuing ;;hop. fn this
shop were exposP.d for sale some ' \·alentines; one of
these we purchased, on account of it.o; di~playing a·vnrie-
1y of colours, but the subject it was inteuded to repre-
:;cnt was so rudely executed, as to require ~om~ot iuge-
nuity to dhlcover the intent of the artist. This ,;alenline
was iurr'onndetl with a wrenlh of Jlowers, and the u::nal
u
13
emblems; and in the centre was the figure of a sailor.
Being thus prepared, we proceeded to the house of her
Father; the door was opened by a young womun, who
appeared to look attentively at each of us, when ex-
plaining the object of our visit; we wore requested to
walk in, and on entering the sitting room, were surprised
to find this identical young woman the individual in
question. Not being sufficiently skilled in the know-
ledge of the formation of the eye, or in those nice symp-
toms which in doubtful cases determine the non-exis-
tence of vision; we made no other remark, than by
placing Miss M'Avoy before the window, and inter-
vening the hand between the light and her eye, we
plainly discovered a dilatation and contraction of the
pupil.
Having thus,far proceeded, the goggles were produc-
ell by her Mother, who placed them on the face of her
Daughter in such a manner as left us to suppose that a
person so blinded could not see in the least. After this,
~orne minute~, perhaps ten or fifteen, elapsed, during
which time she frequently breathed upon her fingers,
informing us, that the moment had not yet arrived when
the feeling faculty had commenced. At inten·als, she
raised her hands to the bandages, adjusting them appa-
rently for ease, though it had very much the appearance
Of being done for the purpose of admitting a channel
for the commuuicfttion of light. We were, howe~·er,
careful during this period, to gh·e . no opportunity of
evincing to her any suspicions. At length she declared
herself in readiness, and placing hedingers on a parti-
cular spot of the slip of paper, where the word " Liver-.
pool" was \vritten, she pronnnnced it without hesitation.
The same !'ncces.;; followe•l ou every other slip of paper
put into her hands. In the m~>an tim(>, the ralentiu~t
Jay in a careless manner on the table before her, so that
if there were any channet of light beneath the goggles,
it could not have been difficult to see the most prominent
objects delineated npon it. It was then taken up and
presented to her, but the experiment, thoup;-h partiallr
:;ucce;;sfnl, pro\·ed rather more than was de,o,;irable for
her fame. She first placed her fingers on the sailo•·':~
hat, and without proceeding further, said it was a man;
.then bringing her fingers a little lower, de;;cribed th2
colour of his jacket; and inlendblf) to proceed clown.
wards, she declared his trowsers to be striped with pink,
which was in fact the case, but ~nlnckily for Miss
M'.Avoy; her fingers had not as yet come wilhi11 one
iucle of that part of the dress, the colour of 'which she.
had pronounced, bnt were exercised in feeling-or rather
t:ub.bing ~~e plllin part of the paper. She had taken the
precaution, during the experiment, to cover the fingers
with which she felt the object, with her left hand, in
such a m~nner as surprised us; for it !partly excluded
~Jle light, and pre,rented any per;:on opposite from s~e­
ing where the fingers were·placed; but from the acci-
(iental situatibn of Mr. Brere1on,'and mysi!lf, who were
sitting on the same sofa, and leaning. or rather stooping
pehind her, we were abl~ to trace all her operations
without exciting- suspicion. What particularly struck
~ach o.f us on this occasion, was, the prompt'manner in
which she first declared the o~jeQt, before she had tracl
ed further than his hat. Here it should be observed,
~hat l\Iiss M'A,·oy had not then so far advanced in the
St'ience of seeing with her finger ends, as to determine
9bjects at the most trifling distance; for we discovered,
as we' procee4ed with other experiment;:, tha~ not only
aCft\~l ~ontact,' but very severe rttbbr'ng, was necessa'r,t
in some qase!', before she would venture on pronouncing
the colm:tr o~ the ~rticles in her posses"ion. llut to P.ro-
ceed, she was going on with acQt,racy in describing the
~olours b'f. ~he surrounding ~mhle\ns, when the Gentle-
man before. named in~ervei1ed a sheet of paper'between
her eyes and ~uger,;, l The power was in a moment gone,
and she was \Jnable to proce~d with her description O,f
these minor sketc.hes until t!te ' p'aper was removed, af-
leging, that if 1he conu~unication b,eHveen 'her breath
and fingers was interrupted, she could not go on. '
There lay upon the sofa where. she was_
sitting, anum-
ber of small pieces of coloured silks, co.tton, 'Velvet, &c.
&c. many of these we put into her han:ds;' both before
her face and behind her back; she sometimes failed, but
in most instances described the colours with dorrec.t-
ness. This was during the time she had th~ goggles on ;
hut it must be remarked, that these pieces were lying
there when we came io, and perhaps had been there
for weel>s, during which period they might ha\'e been
so often practised upon, that the 'yery shape would have
heen sufficiently familinr, to haYe enabled her without
any additional faculty than that of memory, to ha,·e de-
termined the colour of each with correctness.
Our experiments were now drawing to a close, whea
Mr. Steele, from London, entered the room, with a new
kind ofapparatns, 'whic~ appeared to possess all the ne-
cessary po,vers of interrupting sight, and yet admitting
the needful communication of the fingers with the
mouth. which was declared i~dispensable, for the pur-
pose of bre~thin~ on them occasionally when touching
the o~ject, the colour of which was to be identified.-
This apparatus was nothing more than a small !!beet of
pasteboard~ out of on~ side of which a circular piece
was cut, so as to admit ber neck. Being placed under
her chin, the goggles were consi~ered unnecessary, and
were remo\·ed; as lhere could be no doubt of her pos-
sessing the faculty of sfeing Yfith her fingers, if with
thi6 projec~ing appendage she could describe objects,
and tell the col~~rs of them when placed beneath it.-
Jt was not our bd!!iness to determine if the Lady could
see nrith her eyes; our doubts only related to her pos-
sessing that faculty with her hands. I think the first
frial we made tpHler this ne\V arrangement, was with a
\Y
atch. ~ow it happened that two Gentlemen present
had gold watches, very nearly alike in size and fashion.
One of thes~ was held carelessly, though designedly, at
such a distaoqe from her face with the dial upwards, as
to be seen, if she had the power and inclination to look
at it. A few minu~es elapsed in conversation, wheu it
was proposed to put awatch into her band.'>, beneath the
pa;.teboarrl, a11a taktng theone just alluded to, for that
pnrp.9-'C, I profe~sed' to give it her, but in fact put ano-
'fher. watch in to h~r hands, the fingers of which had been
prh'ately altereq one lto.ur forward. She drew her fin-
g-ers ove.r the glass, and declared the time to a minute;
but ol>ser,·e, it 'yas not the-time of the watch she held in
her hand, but the time. of the watch I held concealed in
mine,, the one which had previously been placed care-
lessly·at a distance with the dial upwards. This artifice
she was not made acquainted with, and an exclamation
of" asto1li.~hin,g" being uttered by some one of the par-.
ty. she concltHied that e\'ery thing so far was right.-,
The other watch was then put into her bands, but after
feeling at it some time, she declined pronouncing- any
opinion, and placed it upon her lap, with the face
downwards. Her Mother, who was then In the room,
stepped forwa;d, and taking it np, placed it on the table
before her Daughter's face, with the clialupwctrds, de-
16
siring Margaret tG try something else, that preunlly
she would be able to name the hour. From the situa-
tion in which the watch was placed, we believe she
would have succeeded, but we removed it, and she bad
not the opportunity.
. In the course of these experiments, she had occasien
for her handkerchief, which had been lying on the sofa
near her, she·felt on each side with out finding it; she
then 11tooped forward in the attitude of a person look-
ing, and without feeling in the manner she hlld done
when sitting upright, placed her band direct upon it on
tlle floor. We then put into her hands the slips of pa-
per she had before described with accnracy, when the
goggles were on; but this new contrivance of the paste-
board had dissipated the miraculous power, and her
fingers became, like the fingers of other persons, per-
fectly blind. l\fr. Steele then drew from his pocket se-
veral pieces of silk, of various colours, which were
gh·en into her bands' behind her back ; of many of these
she told us the <>olour with the greatest-correctness: hnt
there was n trilling circumstance attending these trials,
which must not be pas~ed •mnoticed, and which tend-
ed more than ally other occurrenoo to shake our faith,
and rank us among the unbeliever$. We had expected
that in these experiments she would have evinc('d great
delicacy of touch. On the contrary, el·ery article was
handled with a roughness, which would rather tend to
ascertain whether they were hard or 8nft, than to receh·e
the rays of light or colour. This remark wns particn-
larly applicable when practilling on each piPce'of silk
introduced by 1\fr. Sleele; the ed~es of wh!ch !'be liler-
allylore, and frequently bringing her bancl to her mouth
utrder pre/em~~ of u:armin,g il, small shreds were ob!"er-
,·able atlached to her twil.~, and on breathing upon her
fingers, they fell in such direction, that if J\li~s lVl'A\10Y
really could see, there was but little risk in gtte.tt.si:lg at
ihe colour of the remaining piece behind her back. Un-
willing to leave·any little circumstance which occurred
on this clay unnoticed, I trust I need not npoloc:izc fur
the lengfh ofthis letter; and as it does twt fall within fhe
rnnge of my talent to enlarge oo the philosophicnl part
of this extraordinary endowment, I ghall leave the ~ub·
jeet in better hands, by :>ubscrihing my~elf
Your most obedient sen·ant,
Liverpool, Nov. 12, 1817,
4, St. James'a-road.
UmvC
THo:.tAs LuTwYcuE.
17
Particulars of what passed on the ISth of OctobeT.
A number ofexperiments were tried on Miss M'Avoy~
ip some of which she was successful, in others quite the
reverse. She had two glass phials put into her hands~
in one.of which was water, and in the other spirits of
wine; she named each very accurately, which Dr. R.
regarded as a very extraordinary circumstance; but up-
on examination, it appeared, that although the phial»
might be of equal weight; they were not of equal size,
one being much longer than the other, and the cork1111
were not (as they onght to have been) sealed with wax;
indeed they bad not the least covering o\·er them, to
prevent any one, who bad a peculiar tln~ sense of smell-
ing, from ascertaining the difference. A gentleman pre-
sent gave into Miss M•A\·oy's hands a seal, and request-
ed her to tell him the colour of it; be placed his hand
between the seal and her face, 8Jld she declared the seal.
to be black, whereas it was white. At the close of the
experiment~, another person present expr()ssed an opi-
nion that Miss M'A,·oy could see; upon which Dr. R.
proposed that the goldbeater's skin and the adhesive
plaster should be applied to that pen;on's eyes, which
was assented to, and uncommon pains were taken by
Dr. R. in placing them, so as to prevent all possibility
of seeing. When fixing them, Dr. R. said," Now close
your eyelids," to which an aniwer was returned by some
one," You were not so particular with Miss M•Avoy.''
However, the r~quest was complied with, and when the
bandages were properly placed, a watch was pre,;ented,
and tile hour was immPdiatel!f pronounced; a glove was
given, and the,colour u;as told; a letter was produced,
'wkic!t was read witlt great facility, although the writing
was very smalL"*
The Letter of ltlr. Turmemt to the Editors of the I.i-
verpoot JJfercury.
Gentlemen,
When I gave Mr. Sandars a narra-
tive o( the circumstances which occurred, during· rily vi-
sit to Miss 1\l'Avoy, on the 2·1th of Septemberlast, I was
• fee my account or thi-s mcotini in the continuationofthec..,e, "page ~ &. &.
18
th'Em, and am still;.fully convinced Mr. Sandan~ was io
!iearch of truth. I related to him a ~eries of facU!, and
did not expect to be again called on, either directly m:
indirectly, in this rnvsterious affair. However reluctant J
may be to obt~ude myself on the public, what has lately
taken place has compelled ine to do so, in my own de·
fence; and I shall, th~refore, proceed to give you an ac
count of a circumstance, which, I think, ought to be ful-
ly and fairly stated.
On Sunday morning, the lith instant, Mr. Dale called
iJpon me,-ana after somf! lbti'oductory conversation
concerning the elise of Miss M'Avoy; he said, that
the statement I had inserted in my letter to Mr. Sandars
respecting..my having seen this lady ~-ith the child in
her arms, at the kitcheh door, at the time her mother
declared her to tie "t"ery ill, up stairs, had made a great
impression against her; and that, from what the family
had told him, he.Was almost convinced I must ha,·e been
mistaken as to the person I ~aw: It might have been
the effect of optical deception-that ii Miss D--* was
~he ·lady I saw with the infant.-I instantly told Mr;
Dale, that I was ready, at any time, if called upon, to
make oath, that it was Miss M'A,·oy, and no other
person, I saw in the situation described in my letter to
M.r. Sandars: he then s~id, the inatter was likely to take
a serious turn, as the other ~arties were also ready with
their oaths. I told him, that was no a:tfair ofmine.-Mr.
D. pressed me to see :Miss D---, by calling upon her,
with him, to make myselfcertain as to her persoh, before
corning to extremities; To oblige hirri, and not to
appear perverse, 1 consented to this; bi.ti did not inform
him, at the time, that I was acquainted with this lady,
and had known her for many years: fhis the parties
discovered afterwards, as yon will find in the sequel.-;
Upon any day, at half past three o'clock; I said I was
ready to accompany him. We did not meet again till
the following Sunday, when 1\lr. Dale called upon me;
but, instead of going to see Miss D--, I was conduct-
ed to the house of l\Iiss l\t'A,·oy, whom we found in the
back parlour, apparently in a very bad state of health;
constantly twitching and breathing, as if convulsed.
From enquiry of my medical companion, as to these
• At the eX[>relll! de<sire of this lady, her n.:une is omitted.
s'yinpiom~. 1 was informed, they ".'ere caused by a paipl:-
tation of the heart.. After the usual salutations, I heard
the name of (I believe) Mrs. N--mentioued as the Ia~
dy I had mistaken for Miss M'Avoy, and, she was sen1:
for. When I found what game was playing, 1 told Mr.
Dale, I should not say a word, before the parties, in con·
tradiction to ahy assertions they might advance (having
already witnessed the pretendedill effec~s of abrupt be-
liaviour to th~ young lady.) Mrs. N-- sent word, by
the messenger, she was at her dinner, ,and " as,~oon as
she had done; and cleaned up; she would come in."
Shortly after this, she made her appearance. My in-
dignation was now greatly excited at the attempt to en7 ,
trap and to impose upon me; however, I kept silent, and
listened to what they had to say. To shew the contrast
between this woman and. Miss r.'l'Avoy, I mnstgiveade-
scription of her person, Which is altogether abO\'e twice
as large as that of Miss M'A--. ~he appears to be be~
tween 50 and 60 years of age, \vith the strongest marked
physiognomy I ever saw; very dark complexion,and one
e~-e·b!lll completely tumed iri. I bafinot blame the wo:
mari for her unfortunnte appearance, partici1larly as I
have a cast in one ofn'iy own eyes; brit I give you this
sketch to shew the cdntrast, as you know Miss M'Avoy
is a most delicate and sickly looking girl,-and tliat. I
could not have erred, tbro~e;h a deceptio visus, as con-
jectured by my medical friend. She :said she was ready
to swear, that it was slle who h~ld the child, but did not
appear to be certain as to the day. Miss l\l'Avoy told
us, she had been luminous, o_r transparent, a few day~
before, but could not then exhibit her alleged powers.
With sensations I need n~t describe, I was glad to leave
the house; and, when in the street, t told Mr. Dale, that
if it was possible, I was more firm in my belief that Misl1
M•Avoy wa:s the person I saw with the irifant. Mr. D.
said he wished me to be convinced of Miss ~I'Avoy hav-
ing the powers ascribed to her; and that I should have
the earliest intimation arid opportunity of witnessing the
wonderful gift she occasionally has; btit, tliat if she
knew I still persisted in what I had asserted, no future
interview could possibly take plaee l:i'etween us.-Sinc~
this, I have written to Mr. Dale, informing him, he is at
perfect liberty, to state to the parties my opinion of thetp;
as I have not the least inclination to visit the young lady
again. I am far from thinking my friend, Mr. D. hail
a
ro v t
~0
connived, in any way, at this plot; but fear he his misled
by his enthusiasm in the cause.*
At the moment I saw Miss M'Avoy, in the situation
before described, on the 24th September, I to!d Dr.
Jardine of the circumstance; and my surprh:e, after
what her mother had just before stated, that "her
daughter was very ill, up stairs," &c. as rel1.1.ted in my
letter to Mr. Sandars. The doctor, no doubt, recollects
my having done so: I could have no motive in stating a
falsity.-Why did they not contradict it at the time?
But, Gentlemen, if any further proof of my accuracy
be necessary, I could, if I thought proper, give the name
of a lady, who declares she heard Mrs. Hughes bid her
daughter go into the kitchen, and take care of the child.
-and she went accordingly : soon after this, I saw her
in the passage.
The parties, I understand, are beginning to work
t1pon those they consider their enemies by piece-m(:lal;
but they shall neither make a tool, nor a fool of me, in
this very absurd business. As to voluntary oaths, they
never appear to me to rank in the firstorder of evidence;
and the case must be bad indeed, where they are offered
as substitutes for facts; it looks as if the parties had so
involved themselves in the gulph of credlllity, that to
return were worse than to go on.
l am, Gentlemen,
Your's, &c.
Bold-street, jan. 22, 1818.
•
T:w. T ua:~m.Hi.
To tlte Editor of tlte Liverpool Saturday's Advertiser.
Sir,
As the extraordinary power;; attributed
to Miss Margaret M'Avoy of this town, ha\'e l<'tely at-
tracted the attention of the public in an uncommon
degree, permit me to send you a fact ·which has lately
I have reason to thiuk Mr. Dale's application to 1\fr. Turrn~au was not
suggested by .l\lrs. Hughes or Miss l\:!'Avoy. ' .
Um" Calif D1g1t1Zea b M rosa t
21
occured, and which, I think, must silence the scepticism
of the most incredulous. Two ladies of this town, whose
habits of rigid veracity and cautious inquiry are well
known, and whose names will be left with your publish-
ers, in order to satisfy any doubts which may arise, went
lately to the house of this phenomenon, impelled by that
curiosity which has now become universal. For(unately
Miss l\l's marvellous powers, which are known to be
sometimes fluctuating anu capricious, were that day in
their highest perfection, and the following experiment
was accurately tried. One of these visitors stood behind
the young lady's chair and pressed down her eye-lids
with both her hands, so closelythat it was a physical im-
possibility for a single ray of light to enter. I may here
remark that no method ofclosing the eyes by any sort of
covering that can be devised, is half so effectual as this,
for obvious reasons. The other lady then took up a
printed book of sermons which was lying in the apart-
ment, and which appeared to ha,•e just come in from the
bookseller's, as the leaves were not yet cut open . She
opened it in :1 place where the leaves had been uncut,
and placed it before Miss l\'l'Avoy, (her eyes still closed
as above described), who read several lines in it without
hesitation. The lady then took a written note out of her
pocket, which had been received that morning, and Miss
l\'1. also read that wlthont any other difficulty than what
arose from the badness oftLe hand writing.
This experiment, which can be ascertained on oath,
seems so decisive as to the power possessed by Miss M.
of readin~ by the touch alone, that I am not aware of
any possible way in which it can be contro\·erted.
I am, &c. your's,
'I'. S. M.
Rev. B. Glover's Lefler to Dr. Renwick.
Dear Sir,
Yon have · so frequently solicited me
to give you my observations upon the extraordinary
case of my friend Miss M'Avoy, that I can no Ionge!'
withhold them, and must apologize for not having com ·
plied }Vith yonr request ~arlier; but my great occnpa~
tions did n~t allow !11!-! 1ime. ·'
l cannot too'much applaud the zeal and perseyerance
you have manifested in the investigation of this {llost
*mportant case; and 1 will adJ the ca~dour with which
you have conducted it. It is a case, which for tbe pub·
lic inform11tiou, or for the public g4)od, ought to be
thoroughly investigated, and the result authe.ntically
s·ubstantiated. Under this impression ~ have been glad
to find the opinion, which yo~ ~nd·'J entertain, has been
warmly opposed, and objec1ions raise~. This h11s ginm
us the. opportunity ·of re-cQnsidering the grounds on
which we origina!ly founded our opinio~s, has suggest-
ed to us experimen~s, ~vhich our own conviction would
have thmight unnecessary, and thus given us a confi-
dence 'in , OUr opinions, which, \Vithout SUCh oppo-
llition; we should scarcely have dared to entertain. I For:
my own ·part I do not hesitate to declare u~conl}ition­
ally, 'my ~rmest convlctiol) tha~ she is perfectly b\ind,
and pos,sesses a tact which enables her ~o read, distin-
guish colours, &c. &c. It wi~l be unnecessary to enu-
merate ·the details wbicp have·.J>rought my mind to this
conviction. But l will say H ~sa : conviction I cannot
get rid of,. with~ut giving up the evidence 9f all my
senses. ''It either is true as we have stated, or it is the
greatest fraud tha~ ev13r wa~ attempted to ,be practised
upon mankln~; behveen these·extremes in the presen~
instance, there can be no alternath·e. Now I have so
g·ood an opinion of my own under~tanding, that -if ·the
latter were tb(l ca~e, I should ha\·e discovered it, ai4ed
as I have been with.· the assistance of so .many others~
enjoying the singular' opportunity of ~eeing her daily,
1hrough the prf?gress '?f thi~ ~~traordinary -and long
siclmess-and having used every'diligence, and thought
much to bring my mind to the truth on so curious a fact.
I will add,- that the frieudsbip..she has towards me, the
confidence you ha,·e so frequenHy ob~en·ed her to place
in me,dhe gratitude she feels for the religious instruc-
tion she has received from me; the sincerity; with whi~h,
under 'her awful situa'tion, she must converse with one
who is preparing her to appear before the God of Truth,
:,ll these circumstances put together, ·must, in my bum-
ble opinion,, place fraud beyond the possible range of..
human delinquency, .even if there were an o~ject to be
gai~ed by it, which, in the present instance) there is no~..
'. .
Umv Calt Diqiti.zed by Micros ft
I have thus sent yon my opmwn, aC'companied with
a ifatement of a few experiments which my brother
and myself made lately. You are at liherty to use
all or part of this uote, as it may please your-
self.
I remain, dear Sir, ·
Your's most sincerely,
EDWARD GLOVER.
Sept. 2nd, 1817.
f -
JJ.r. J. lJfacken::ie's Letter to Dr. Renwick.
. • :I
pear ~i~,
'
I ought to_have returned yotl my thanks
at an ear1ier P!"riod,· fc-'r1 the readiness ''"ith which you
met my reque;;t to he pr"'sent at my visit to your inter-
esting patient, Mi~i( M'.f\.~loy, on the 29th of September
last ; and to eXJlress to you how perfectly satisfied I felt
with the full accouu t ~on and the other Medical Gentle-
men in attenrltUJ<'e then ~ave me of her disease, as well
as with the conclu ~iverre~s of the experiments made in
my presence, to prove the extraordinary powers of
touch, developf'd, in the progress of its varied symp-
toms ; I had but one moth·e for postponing this expres-
sion of .my per;.onal obligation to yourself and collea-
gues, for your attention aud liberality of conduct on
that occasion. It was not a scruple of doubt in my
~lind, as to th~ realit)' of what I bad seen, nor yet n
suspicion of impostur~ on the part of the artless, inge-
nuous, nnfortnnate patient, subjected to trial ;-for the
extremes of sct>ptif"ii(m and credulity I hold in equal
contempt,-as qualities which belong to the weak or the
wicked, and are a.llke fatal to truth: but a desire to see
your NarratiH' of this Uniqne Case, which was at that
time announced to be in the press, and thus have it in
my vower to ~atisfy myself as to the whole evidence,
statement and facts. That satisfaction is now complete.
Youf Narrative is before me; it is just what it ought to
Unlv Calt {}litz b~ M c oft
24
be, an honest record of the facts; and so far as I have
been eye-witness to these, I can bear the most unqua-
litied testimony to the correctness of its details. Indeed
the facts are irrefragable ; no man can deny these, who
·has seen them, without rejecting the grounds of all hu-
man testimony-the evidence of the sense!!. If such a
man there be, his mind is pii.St all the powers of convic-
tion ; his reason prostituted to the sordid passions, or
lost in the abyss of universal scepticism.
Yon have abstained from theorising on this case, and
in that have shewn your discretion as well as judgment.
The Phyl'iologist will undoubtedly consider the facts
already established among the most important data
that have hitherto presented themsehTes to his contem-
plation, as illustrative of some of the obscurest laws of
animal life, particularly those of the nervous system,
although their application may as yet be premature.
Your patient's case is extremely complicated; the ra-
vages of disease are already extensive; the indications
of cure are uncertain ; the crises that have hithertotaken
place, whether favourable or otherwise, appear to have
resulted from the determination of morbid action to or-
gans :w very essential to life, that any material injury to '
their structure must prove fatal to it; as for example,
to the cerebral and abdominal viscera; consequently, no
prognosis can be hazarded in the present state of tbe
case with a shadow of certainty. The disease is still in
progress, and your labours by no means at an end.-
Proceed in the plan which you have so judiciously
adopted, of accurately observing, and faithfully record-
ing the phenomena as they arise. You will thus accu-
mulate facts valuable to the science of life, and establish
a name which neither the malignity of selfishness, nor
the phil9sopby of doubt can e\·er undermine. With
my best wishes for the improvement of .1\liss M•A,·oy's
health, and your final success, believe me to be,
My dear Sir,
Your much obliged, and
very faithful ser,·ant,
JOHN .1.\'TACKENZIE.
7th November, 1817.
Umv Calif- Dtgttlzed by M1 osoft
Mr. Samuel Berey's Letter to Dr. Renwick.
Dear Sir,
Agreeable to your request, I hand
you the following particulars, which occurred on my
visit to Miss M'Avoy. My mind being previously pre-
judiced against Miss M'Avoy, I thought it probable that
she might be acquainted with the feel of different sub-
stances, to which she had been accustomed; therefore I
inclosed some coloured worsteds in two glass tubes, and
seall'd them at the ends, with different coloured wax,
(which tubes I have sent herewith for your inspection.)
I also prepared some green and yellow sympathetic ink,
with which I wrote upon Elips of paper; and which
writing was invisible when dry. On the 23d of Septem-
ber last, I accompanied a party, who had permission to
wait upon Miss M'A--; when introduced to her, she
complained of indisposition, but seemed wishful to gra-
tify our curiosity, and permitted us to try experiments
on the power she apparently possesses, of distinguishing
colours by the feel. She had the goggles put on, which
appeared to me to be a most effectual mode of prevent-
ing her from seeing, if she possessed any power of that
kind, for un previously trying them upon myself, I
found the light completely obscured. A printed book
was first presented to her, which she tried to read, but
could not tell a letter, but after composing herself a few
minutes, she told us the colours of our watch seals, by
rl1bbing her fingers upon them; and also told which
'were glass, and which were stones. I then placed in
her hand, one of the glass tubes, (which I had kept in
my pocket,) but she could not tell the colour~, nor in-
deed the substance she felt, as she asked was it a piece
of brass? She said the power had left her; however, a
short time afterwards, she told the name marked with
ink, npon a pocket handkerchief, and the colours of a
silk handkerchief, and traced the edge of the pattern
printed thereon, with a pin. I then tried her again
with the glass tubes, when she immediately told the co-
lours contained in them, in the order they were placed,
by passing her fingers over them, and also the colour of
the sealing wax at the ends, without the least mistake ;
she also told the honr, by passing her finger oyer the
glass of a watch ; she read several words in a book, and
• L.Jrll Caltf D q1tiz d by 1 u
26
the directions of several letters, and told the colours o(
·our coats; by feeling the cloth. I ga,·e her a bla~k slip
of writing paper, requesting her to try if she could read
the writing. upoo it; but she said she could not feel any.
I then gave her one of the slips l'vrote upon with sym-
pathetic ink, she said there was writing upon it, but it
was so extremely fai.nt, that she could not make it ou~, but
she found out one letter, whi-ch she called T-1 ma{ked
the part where she said the letter \Vas, and when I retnrn-
ed home, on warming the paper; I found the letter was
I; a mistake easy to be tnade; the letters being so much
alike. .
Stn·eral of the abov'e experiments were repeated, with
the same result, her eyes being CO\'ered with a silk hand-
kerchief, inste.ad. of the goggles. ln these experiments;
I am bertain that Miss l\I'Avoy. was not prompted by any-
pers~nj nor do I think it possib.le that she could have any
assistance frmh her eyes. .Mr~ Bainbridge*and Mr. John
Leigh, wel'e present when the above experiments were
tried; to whom I beg lea\·e to refer you for any further
particulars which may have escaped my notice; and I have
no doubt but thP.y will confirm the abo\·e statement.
I remain, dear Sir,
Your's very respectfully,
Liverpool, l7tlt Feb. Sn~I. BEREt:
1818.
The Letter of 1Jir. S. Peacock, Surgeon, Upimi Chesitire!
to .Dr. Rettwick, IIanover-slreet, Liverpool.
Dear Sir,
, The inclosedt is a correct statement
of the expHiment with the watch.
Yours; &c:
Upton, July 24, i8.20.
S. PEACOCK,
• This Gimtlcmnn nnd 1\fr. Bainbridge were appointed to examine Miss
1\I<Avoy, by the members of a Club who meet occasionally at the Old Swan,
near Liverpool, to decide a wager laid upon the subject of Mtss M•Avoy, by
Mr. Latham ·Of Wavcrtree, with l\Ir. John Leigh of Liverpool. It was decided
by these Gentlemen against Mr. Latham. ·
t Not havi~g seen Mr. l'cacock for some time, I wrote to him, incl06ing '!-
printed copy of the Experiment h~ had statedS to which the above letter is the
;mswcr. Sec page 202.
Untv Calif D1q1 1zea b M
jir. Evans's Letter to Dr. Renwick.
Dear Sir,
I visited Miss 1\i'Avoy with Mr. Thomas.
You and another gentleman were present. Miss M'Avoy
was in bed; and recovering from a severe attack. She
distinctly told different colours, and also describ9d some
watch-papers. A book was then placed undel" the bed-
clothes, which covered her up to her neck, and opened
on her breast, when she read a few lines with her fin-
gers. When the book was withdrawn, the words were
found correct. On this occasion I placed under the
bed-clothes, without th~ possibility of her seeing even
what I conveyed there, a watch-paper of variegated
colours. She distinctly, and to our astonishment, riamed
every colour. A book was placed in the same situation,
and with her fingers she read a line or two, which on
examination we fouhd to be correct.
lJfarble-street, Liverpooi.
W11. EvANS, Surgeon;
August 1, 1820.
The Rev. H. Brewer's Letter to Dr. Renwick;
Dear Sir,
in answer to your inquiries respect-
ing Miss M'Avoy, I am happy to inform yo~ that since
my first acquaintance with her, which took place .in
April of last year; a.nd which continued to the time of
her death, I constantly experienced the greatest can-
dour and frankness of disposition. Indeed frotn all
that I could discover during my frequent visits, I con-
ceive that she was utterly incapable of every :species of
deceit and imposition.
With very great respect,
I remain, dear Sir,
H. BREWER;
Edmund-street; 21th August, U~fO.
d
u c
Um C f D g tue by
~1Jiade ttpon this Case before Dealll.
I SHALL make a very few observations upon the
foregoing case; and, until a termination of the disease,
under which Miss M'Avoy labours, which may be
esteemed decisive, takes place, I shall remain at my post,
attending to it with all due care, that the public may
ultimately be in possession of those facts which may
tend more fully to elucidate ft.
I have already stated that from the history of the case;
I was of opinion that compression of the brain actually
existed at the time of my first visit in June, 1816 ; that
convulsions and even blindness might be reasonably
expected to ensue. Indeed it is probable from double
vbion having been observed three years before thi»
period, that the optic nen·e was not at that time in a
perfect state of health ; and from a ''cry early age the
eyes had been subjected to repeated inflammation, and
consequent weakness. ·
"'''hc (}isappcarancc of the oodema from the lower ex-
tremities, the scarcely perceptible fluctuation in the
abdomen, the increase of p11in and throbbing in the
head ; and the giddiness which followed, led me to sup-
pose that tluid was collected somewhere between the
membranes, or within the cavities of the brain. I feel
myself justified in this opinion by the authority of Mor-
gagni, Bonefus, and other writers, who had CXlltnined
the bodies of per.sons, in whom convulsions and death
followed the sudden disappearance of dropsical swel-
lings. In many of these cases fluid was fonnd in the
ventricles, or between the meninges of the brain, in a
greater or less ·quantity, but death generally occurred
before the fluid could make its way tluou~h any artifi-
f b
30
cial outlet. The case reh1ted by Valsalva, and quoted
in the Narrative from .Morgagni, of a sheep afiected
with water in the head, is somewhat analogou~ to that
of Miss M'Avoy; and it is probable had the sheep not
been destroyed it might have been relieved from the ac·
cumulation of fluid by its discharge from the brain~
through the eroded part of the os Ethmoides, which
lies under the miunillary processes, affording in
time a free passage from the cranium 19 the nostrils ; for
it appeared the commencement of this erosion of the
bone was occasioned by the diseased state of the brain~
or by the continual dripping of an acrimonious fluid-*
Doctor Baron, of Gloucester, has gh•en an account
of a case somewhat similar in a child, who died after-
wards from water in the brain. He had not an oppor-:
• tunity of ex~mining attentively, the ethmoid bone, but
he easily passed a probe through it into the nose, from
which·pas~age the fluid most probably escaped, in the
sudden manner he has described.t Instances have oc·
~urre4 also where artificial openings have been made
~n the heads of children, affected with hydrocephalu~,
which allowed of the free discharge of a considerable
quantity of fluid. Dr. Baron mention:s 9,ne instance, in
which the tumour had ·been twice punctured, but the
event of the disease had not then been ascertained. Dr.
:Formby, of this town, atte~ded a patient lab9uring un·
der this disease, in which the tumour was punctured by
Dr._
Vose, and a good deal ofserous fluid e\•acuated, with
temporary benelit to the child ; but it afterwards died.
It has been supposed the fluid which pas,;sed down in
the case of Miss 1\'l'Avoy, might ha,•e been collected in
some tumour, or hydatid at the back of the nose, or in
the gullet; but I have already said it was scarcely pos-
sible a tumour could have existed in that situation, con-
-taining: ~ven any moderate quantity of Onid, wi~hout
being before perceived by its effects in breathing, or in
s~allowing; but nothing of this kind took place. '
The quantity of fluid discharged, from the afternoon
of the 12th to the morning of the 16th of June, 1816,
• Sheep are very subject to this disease, and the Shepherds often puucture
~11 ~umour if it poi~t externally, and sometimes 'l[l·ith success. ·
~Vide ~~ndon M~cal and Physical Journal, \"Cil. xuviii. page 464.
~1
must have been immense, as it was passing down into
the stomach almost in()essantly, so as hardly to allow
her time to draw her breath. It might almost be calcu-
l!l-ted from the circufl1stance of seven ounces having
been obtained at two efforts tq expel it in a less space of
lime thaQ one minute. Indeed, it would almost appear,
as if its expulsion from the head2 after it first began to
. flow, bad followed its secretion in nearly an equal ratio.
The fluid, which escaped in very sm.all quantity, from ·
the nostrils after the two following attacks of convul-
sion, was of a more glairy nature £han that of the first
discharge, resembling in tenacity, colour, and consis-
tence the albumen ovi, or the fluid generally observed
to be contained in hydatids. The fluid collected in ve-
ry small quantity2 after the convulsions i~ November,
l8l7, was much the same as that which was at first dis-
charged; an•l the slight discharge which took place from
the ear, the day after her alarm from the chimney tak-
ing fire, was similar, from the description given of it, to
the two discharge!! from the nose. Since this period,
no fluid has passed from the head that we are aware of.
Tumours have appeared in the side, in the neck, and
upon the os sacrum, extending to both hips. Fluctua-
tion has been repeatedly felt in the latter part; but the
very acute pain which took place upon pressing the tu-
mour in the left side, in the slightest manner, prevented
~s from ascertaining its exact nature, situation, or extent:
but from its subsidence after the discharge of purulent
matter with the urine, it may be naturally supposed to
haye extended to the region of the kidneys. In the lait
disQharge which took place the quantity was much more
considerable than before; ihe swelling under the clavi-
cle disappeared ; that, in the lower part of the back re-
mained near!y stationary'exceptwhen the discharge from
the leg was more considerable; but the pain in the side
was so much relieved she could bear moderate pressure,
with the fingers~ on that part of the tumour, which be-
fore did not allow them to pas:.; lightly over it without
bringing on much uneasine!'s. '
She complained of pain extending from the occiput
along the spine, and pressingupon it gave her considera-
ble pain, caused her to shrink, and most probably this af-
fection of the spine occasioned her inability to walk or
stand up erect without support. .After the last discharge
had taken place, she felt heri'elf so much better, that
she was carried into the garden, and remained there for
two or three hours at a time, ail the weather was ex-
tremely fine. She named the colour of two fluids, but
not so readily as I have seen her do it before. Was un-
covered. Notwithstanding the fineness of the weather,
she caught cold and was attacked with symptoms of
Pneumonia, for whiGh she was bled repeatedly; but, al-
though relieved from the more violent symptoms, the
cough continued for some time.
The catching in the breathing and the convulsive
motion of the diaphragm became occasionally so violent
that we found it uec~ssary to have recourse to vene.
section more frequently; ltnd the blood which was
dravm generally appeared cupped, huffy, or both. The
quantity was proportioned to its effects upon the system.
It never exceeded sixteen ounces at one time, but gene-
rally only from fi\·e to eight ounces were taken away.
Sometimes the pulse was full and strong enough, at
other times it was weak and feeble, and her general
appearance contraindicated its necessity, but we de-
pended more upon the violence of the catching in the
breathing, and the convu~sive motion of the diaphragm
than upon the pulse; Of. even herleucophlegmatic coun-
tenance, and she generally was relie\'ed from them after
the first or second bleeding, but latterly more frequent
and larger bleedings were required before these sym11-
toms receded.
Iu some instance~ after taking about six or seven
OUI1CCS of blood, suspension of breathing came Oil, the
pulse continued to beat freely and fully, but if we
allowed the blood to flow for any considerable time
after the suspension too\{ place, the pulse ''ery soon
sank ; at other times .syncope occurred, and some-
times as she was losing blood, she fell into a state of
insensibility.* · · ·
• The di<tinction between this suspension in the breathing and •yncope
a:onsistsin the circulation being continuedin the former and not in the latter.
'l'hc application of the lightest feather to the nostrils or upon the mouth is
not acted upon by the breath, until she is reco•·ering from it, nor is any stain
perccr.tible upon a looking-glass placed immediately over the mouth and
nostnls. The pulse is not aftt'Cted materially when she falls into the state of
insensibility, which has most frequently occurred during the latter bleedings,
nor is the breath interrupted. The suspensiort' of breathing, Me says, come~
on suddenly, and I am aware only of it havingexisted by a peculiar twisting
f.bout the heart, and 11 gaspin~ for breath as l recover from it. The syn·
u IV c If D t z d
The degree of debility which sometimes ensued
alarmed us, but on the day following the bleeding which
produced this effect, we found her generally better,
although theile unpleasant symptoms often recurred.
After several bleedings the blood became very thin and
appeared more like bloody serum than blood. When
this was the case, the coagulum was small in proportion
to the ·quantity of serum : sometimes it was partly fluid,
butgenerally firm enough in consistence.* When we
did not venture to take more blood from her extreme
debility, and when the lower extremities were very
anasarcous, we had recour~ to scarifications, by which
means a great quantity of serous fluid passed off,
which seemed to answer the purpose of the bleed-
ing. When the discharge from this source ceased,
the bleeding was occasionally resumed, if the symp·
toms abo,·e mentioned came on with any considera-
ble degree of violence, and she seemed to bear the
loss of blood better now than in the more early
~ope commences with a more generallaositude, and she feels a gradual sink·
ing of all her animal powers, until ohe loses ""'ery sen~tion, and when she
recover& she feels that languor consequent upon fainting.
The state of insensibility &poken of above, which b neither attended
with suspension of breathing nor syncope; continues for a longer perioll
and the pulse beats; at first she is unconscious of all that has taken place,
but before her perf~ct recovery she has 10metimes been aYI·are of what was
passing, although she could not always speak or give an answer to a ques~ion.
I have sometimes mpposed the suspension might have acted as sleep in
recru'iting her debilitated frame, for it certainly appears from her own account
as well as that of her mother, that she baa obtRUled little &leep for a very
long pcrio4.
• In a c:-aseof pleurisy, which occurred in my practice lately, I found It
necessary to order bleedingto a considerable extent. The patient lost in all
212 ounces; fifty ounces were taken away in the first twenty hours, at two
bleedings, and the remahrder in the Jlroportion of eighteen or twentyounces, llll •
the patient could bear it. HQ had been sftllctcd four years ago with infiam-
mation and abscess of the liver. When I firot saw him the fiver was consi.
derably enlarged; the body had a generally jaundiced appearance; he had
passed and was passing per anum gall •tones and purulent matter; wall
£r equently affiicted with cold sh1verings and spasms. The first quantities of
blood which w~re drawn, exhibited a strongly cupped and butfy appearance
upon the surface, but the inferior part wo.s of the consistence of tar or treacle.
As the bleedings were continued, the blood assumed a more natural appea-
rance, but the crassamentum hRd still a str11n~ butr upon it; the fluidity was
exchanged for considerable tenat"ity, so that the red part of the blood might
be held upon the point of a knife. I mention this here a• it would appea~
that the fluidity of the blood in the first in~tancc should not deter one frma
continuing the bleeding, if, in a chronic case, symptoms indicatin~ inllamma•
ticm, and ~rQduce<;l by accillcn!.al <olbc!Cile shouhl occur.
bleeding!!. 1'he catohing nnd oppression hi the breath-
ing made me fear adheeions might haye taken place iii
the Cll\·ity of the chest; but the cessation ctf these symp~
toms after the bleedings and scarifications induced me to
alter this opinion, and to imagine that some peculiar Ir-
ritation acting on the nerve!!, supplying the neighbour-
ing parts, was the cause not only of these harrassing
symptoms, but of the convulsive affection of the di~
aphragm.*
When these symptoms were brought on by attempting
to protrude the tongue, it would appear as if the com-
munication of the continued nerve of the ninth pair
which supplied partly the muscles of the tongue with the
eighth pair; the sympathetic, the cervical, and the phre-
nic nerves might account for their occurrence. Might
we not suppo~e; also, that the peculiar affection of the
sole of the right foot, which, when pressed wpon, pro-
duced that violent and sudden retraction of it, and that
general perturbation of the system, were caused by the
nerves of the lower extremities derived from the tum~
bar nerves, having through these m('ans, a communica;
tion with the numerou~ twigs from the continued trunk
of the sympathetic nerve, and from thence with the
br~tin?
Many of the other symptoms which have occurred iii
this ca8e, may be explained from a similar cdnnexion,
through the immediate nerves of the part, and their
communication with the brain.
The peculiar powers which excited orii' attention, have
not for more than two years been so conspicuous as td
enable us to make any more decisive experiments. Miss
M'Avoy employs herself, when tolerably well, in mak-
. in~r different little ornaments in sewing, and in netting.
She has occasionally named a colour or read a word;
but comparatively with the powers described in theNar;.
rative) hPr success in these attempts is of little impor-
tance. When quiet and tranquil, not exposed to any
noise or alarm, and not suffering from any domestic
uneasiness, or more than usually severe pains of the
• The very "
irritable state of the brain of ihis female is demonstrated by
the effect pruduced by any ~udden noise or nlann, which often occuioned
insensibility, or the sus1>cn1ion of breathing to take place.
Umv flf D y
35
head or side, Miss M'Avoy has felt this power return
occasionally, in a slight degree.*
Whether this diminution ofthe power be derived from
the morbid sensibility whicli almost constantly ~xists in
the left side and in the spine, and which has occurr_
ed
sometimes in other parts where tumours have appeared,
is uncertain ; but it is surely not a ve1·y improbable way
of accounting for it, because we have many instances
upon record where the violent pain of one part of the
body has diminished the excitement in a more distant
part. Is it not probable, therefore, that this peculiar
power which appeared frequently to be exercised by the
points of the fingers, and sometimes by other parts of the
surface of the body, in ascertaining colours, &c. should
be interrupted, or I may say almost annihilated by this
peculiar pain, which is always more or less present,
and which is excessively increa:;;ed by the slightest
pressure?
If she were an impostor, and possessed of vision,
there is no reason why she might not have continued
the imposition to the present moment; for this pain in
the side would not prevent her from naming what she
saw. '
Her opponents, indeed, say she could see when she
named colours, &c. but now that she can scarcely
name them, they may change their ground, and declare
her to be blind.t Indeed it appears to me very strong
evidence in her lavour, that, under precise.ly similar cir-
cum$tanceslabating a few peculiar symptoms which have
occurred since the publication of the Narrative) and
• The surface of her body is sensible to e:~;ternal objects passing over it ;
lnd I have observed her to give me her hand, when I put out mine quickly
to take it for the purpose of feeling her pulse, but if I presented my hand
quietly without covering her band, it remained in its position until (
took hold of it. The Interruption to her breath produced a more violent ef.
feet upon her general system, but this action upon the surface of the body
would seem to be derivedfrom a similar cause, although in an inferiord~gree
upon parts not so immediately connected with the principles oflife,
+ An assertion ofthis kind, I have no doubt will be made, but it willuot
.avail them in proving that she could sec when she di,tinguishcd colours, & c.
and ·that she is now blind because she cannot name them so dcci8h·ely. It is
well kaown that a variety of causes prevented the exhibition of her powers.
when in the greatest perfection, and these causes certainly acted more re:t·
tlily upon &n Irritable fibre, and, producing a temporary suspension of them,
might lead us to suppose a more violent action in the same habit might still
fm·~her deteriorate, or entirely de~troy this power, which W:l$ held upoo_so
fra.tl a tenure.
e
ro u t
without any material change in her general character,
or in the appearance ofher face and eyes, from what has
been described, she should pO$Sess iu so inferior a de-
gree at the present moment, and for so very long a period
the power which had before so eminently distinguished
her, and which had been witnessed by so great a variety
.of persons during a period of more than twelve mouths,
if it were not for some cause of this kind acting; upon
the nerves, or upon the sensorium, which our limited
knowledge of these parts will not enable us to explain
more fully.
The indurated state of the abdomen and the torpor in
the chylopoietic viscera were relieved by the mercurial
and purgative medicines; and they were occasionally
useful in the latter l'tages of the disease.
The frequent bleedings kept the inflammatory symp-
toms under, which, if they bad been allowed, their full
range must have destroyed her long ago. The scarifi-
cations.were also useful for the same purpose, ancl in
taking away the serous fluid from the lower extremitie:o:,
they might probably pre\•ent its accumulation in the ca-
vities ofthe brain.
Opiates generally produced rather a baneful than a
beneficial effect, except when given to relieve uneasinesi
in the bowels, and even then, if the dose were not \·ery
small, she suffered very unpleasant effects from their ad~
· ministration. She found little benefit from any other
medicines which were prescribed.
I shall, for thP. present, desist from hazarding other
opinions, as in the narration of this case it bas been my
chief aim to detail the facts which have occurred; to ab·
stain as much as possible from theory, nnd to leave tb~
public to draw its own dQductions from theA!•
•
Umv 11 () f
37
Letter of Robert Harrison, Esq. to Dr. Renwick.
My dear Sir,
I send you a correct detail
of the appearances obsen•ed in di~sectiug the body of the
late Mis~ i\1'Avoy, as noted at the time by my. old pupil
A'Ir. Odny. I consider myself as bound to be particular
io noticing them, not only in compliance with your re·
quest, Lnt in the expectation of observing some extraor-
dinary de,•iation from natural structure which might
explain those intere~tinl?" phenomena which this ease has
presented through the long and painful illness to which
you have paid such unremitting attention.
I feel it however my duty to observe, that in the many
examinations of dead bodies which I have made, I have
fonnJ ,·ery few in which disease had left such slight
marks, or in which there was less satisfactory informa-
tion gained by dissection. It is totally impossible for
me, from the confined dat& obtained by this observation,
to explain many of those unusual symptoms which were
manifested during life, and which certainly placed this
case in a state of uncertainty and obscurity, which I can-
not but sincerely regret, have not been so sufficiently
cleared by the examination after death, as to induce
me to intrude any observation with the view of elucidat-
ing a train of symptom~, the cause of which, as well as
many other medical..and surgical diseases, not only re-
main concealed during life, but produce so little change
in those organs where they appeared to reside, that, not
even a trace is found after death.
In reply to your question," 1Yhat did I conceive was
the cause ofdeath?" I must obsen·e, that for the fore-
mentioned reasons, l feel that it would be almost pre-
sumption to give a positive answer. As far, however,
as my information permits me to speak with certainty,
I must say, that I did not notice any organic disease suffi-
ent to destrov life. I feel more inclined to attribute her
decease to excessive and long continued debility, the
primary cause of whicb I cannot attempt to explain.
You, who have watched the case from the commence-
J C I
ment, can best attempt such an explanation, and to your
impartial judgment I shalllea\'e the further im·estiga-
tion, ~atisfied that your only wil"h is to state facts ex-
actly as they occurred, and to draw from them snch
conclusions as may be perfectly legitimate.
I remain, my dear Sir,
Your's truly,
RonER'I,' H.AnRr~oN.
Lh•e1pool, Aug. 10, 1820.
U IV Call
3t)
OF THE
TWELVR HOURS AFTi:R DEATH,
J3y Robert Harrison, A. B. M. R. c. s. L. & D. one of tbe Demonstratora
of Anatomy, &c. to the School of Surgerr, in Dublin, before Drs. Ren-
wick and Jetrreys-Surgeons Thomas, Naun, .Morgan, Loftus, Davidson,
and Udny-Rcv. Mcssn. Brewer and Towers, and aeveral Pupila of tb11
Infirmary.
As the body lay exposed on the table, the figure ar-
peared to have been formed in good proportion; the
whole surface was extremely pale, having a pellucid ap-
pearancE>, there being no marks of red blood in any part.
Clear watery mucus was flowing from the mouth and
nares. No tumour was observable about the neck,
chest, or abdomen. The spine, viewed posteriorly, was
straight and without deformity. Several hremorrhoidal
excrescences protruded throu~?;h the orifice of the anus,
hnt did not appear in a state of inflammation. The lower
extremities were remarkably swollen from anasarca,
which had so distended the' integuments about the pel-
vis, as to give that region an appearance of preternatural
breadth, and had Increased the size of the legs to a pro-
digious degree. A quantity of fluid was escaping from
incisions of the cuticle, made before death, a little
above the ankle.
We commenced the dissection by examining the con-
tents of the cranium, in exposing which, we remarked,
that the scalp was very easily detached from the bone,
and no blood-vessels appeared during the separation.
The cranium itself appeared unusually white and po-
lished; the sutures were strongly united, and in some
parts almost obliterated. The sagittal line did not di-
vide the os frontis, as it most frequently does, in the
female at the age of the present subject.
C I
40
The bony arch being separated by a circular incision
with the saw, great difficulty was felt in detaching it from
the dura mater, the connection being remarkably inti-
mate, The internal surface of the skull bore the im-
pressions of several large vessels running in all direc-
tions, some of which were deeply furrowed in the bone,
whic~ appeared very thick a~d strong, and felt extreme-
ly heavy, so much so, that had \Ve met with it under dif-
ferent circumstances we should have considered it as
belonging to an adult male subject.
No unusual appearance was remarked on the outer
surface of the dura mater. We saw none of thQse emiuen-
<!es called glandulre Pacuhloni, either on the membrane,
Q'r in'the longitudinal sinus, the walls of which we ob-
lerved, were thicker than ordinary; the caliber of the
canal was of the usual dimensions. On raising off the
dura mater, we perceived the arachnoid membrane,
where it covers the hemispheres of the cerebrum, to be
white and dense in some parts, and separated from the
surface of the convolntions and their interstices, by an
opaque gelatinous effusion. This appearance was most
in the vicinity of the longitudinal sinus.
The pia mater appeared pale, as also the whole sur-
face of the brain; \·ery many large ''esseIs were di&tinctly
ramified upon both sides, but they contained no blood,
and the entfre aspect impressed us with the idea, that
the brain was less \1ascular than usual. The organ ac-
curately filled the im·esting membrane, and to the touch
it was of the usual firmness. On cutting each hemis-
phere to a level with the corpns callosum, we remarked,
the almost total absence of blood-yessels: we did notsee
any of those red dots which commonly appear so nume-
rou;; in a divi!:ion of medullary or fibrous substance ; btlt
the centrum ovale appeared of a milk white, unstainP.d
by any vascular appearance. The fibrous structure of
the corpus cailosum, was unu.snally evident, and the
whole felt ofa firm consistence.
The lateral' ventricles were next opened. In their ca-
vities a small quantity only of fluid was observed. The
choroid plexus was very pale, bnt could be expanded,
so as to shew its natural tissue free from auy of those
changes in structure so commonly obsen·e,J. The sep-
tum lucidum was very strong and the various eminences
throughout the whole extent of these chambers, appear-
ed in a perfectly healthy state, and in prosecuting the
dissection through the different laminre in the usual or-
der, down to the third ventricle, we were all satisfied
that we do not commonly see their ieveral parts so dis-
tinctly marked, and so exempt from disease. In the
third ventricle, the commissura mollis was very strong
and broad; the different opening-s from their cavity
were free and distinct, and the pineal gland had nearly
the same appearance as in the young subject. On di-
viding the tentorium cerebelli, the whole surface ofthe
cerebellum presented the ilame pale aspect as the cere-
brum, but in other respects was healthy. On exposing
the canal which leads from the third to the fourth ven ·
tricle, we found the cavity to be of its ordinary dimen-
5ions; but on its posterior wall we remarked some unu-
sual appearances; here the surface was not smooth,
white and polished, as in other parts, but appeared
rough and dark coloured ; this was owing to a small
fungus·like excrescence, which projected from the back
part into the cavity; it might be compared to a small
portion of fur, it did not appear vascular, was very soft,
and could be easily torn off from its connections; it was
not unlike a small portion of coagulable lymph, effusecl
in inflammation on a serous mrface. On making an
incision into the hemispheres, they were of the usual ap-
pearance.
We next proceeded to examine the base ofthe brain,
and the course of the cerebral nerves. The olfactory
appeared healthy; behind these the union of the optic
nen·es on the sphenoid bone was seen smaller than
usual, very thin and flaccid, as if the nervous substance
did not fill the investing membrane, a little pale fluid
being between the nerve and its tunic. The nen·e, also
from this to the orbit appeared very thin ~nd flat, more
particularly the left, which was peculiarly flaccid and
delicate; traced back to their connection with the Tha-
lami Optici and Tubercula quadragemina they appeared
as usual, broad and flat. The pituitory gland, and
Infundibulum were of natural situation; and all the ce-
rebral nerves prellented a healthy appe1~ranee, having
their usual attachments to the brain, and taking their
usual course ; all other parts on the base of the brain
appeared perfectly healthy, and the same remark passed
on looking on the divided surface ofthe spinal marrow,
which was cut in the cervical region.
On opening the orbit we observed them to contain
muoh loose and watery adeps ; the muscles of the eye·
balls were ,-ery weak and pale ; the nen-es were all
distinct, and the optic appeared of the usual l'ize and
consistence ; on cutting across both of these nen·es, we
did not observe the red spot pointing ou~ the ~iruation
of the arteria centrnlis Retinre, so commonly seen in this
incision. On dissecting the eye-ball itself, all the parts
were distinctly seen in this beautiful organ, perfectly
free from dii1ea~e. The lens and its surrounding trans-
parent fluids; the retina and its investing tunics, with
the pigmentum nigrnm, were satisfactorily seen in bo~h
eyes. On the retina the punctum aureum was Yery bril-
liant; we could not see any of the branches of the be-
fore-mentioned artery, either on the retina or piercing
the vitrious humour.
THORAX.
Having ele,·ated the anterior boundary of this cavity,
a considerable quantity of loose adipose substance was
seen covering the pericardium in greater abundance
than is usual at the age of this subject. The lungs im-
mediately collapsed very much, they being of a pale
gre·y colour. and of their usual spongy emphyse;uatous
feel. No disease wa:;; observed in their surface, or in
their substance ; and no adhesions existed between the
pleura pulmonalis and costalis. In each pleura about
four ounces of reddish serum were contained.
The pericardium was slightly distended, and fluc-
tuations could be distinctly felt~ on opening it, three
ounces of a straw-coloured fluid was discharged, and
the surface of the heart exposed. This organ had
much adeps upon it, and felt extremely flaccid, and
looked very pale. The serous membrane covering it
was rough in spots, particularly near t-he apex, whera
many small white patches were obvious, and were pro-
bably the efl'ects of inflammation once acute, but Ion~
since subsided. The interior of the heart was natural,
and the different Yah•ular apparatus perfectly uninjured.
The right ventricle was very wenk; and the left, though
thicker, was very pale; both containc1l long cosgniR
43
cf blood. Around the semilunar valves of the Aorta,
:.;light traces of incipient di~ease were noticed.
ABDO)lEN.
In this cadty, no appearance of disease was observ;.
able, in the peritomeum, stomach; or spleen. The livet
was rather large and soft, of a pale yellow colour; there
was no disease in its substance. The gall bladder was
fnlt of dark coloured 'bile. The pancreas was healthy;
also the mesenteric glands, the intestines; both small and
larg-e were distended with flatus.
The kidneys appeared very large, particularly the
right; they were both pale, and contained more adeps
internally than is commonly observed. The several
capsules were as usual. The ureters and urinary blad-
der were perfectly healthy. The uterus was very small:
both ovaria were diseased, being enlarged to the size of
a hen's egg, and containing an infinite number of small
transparent hydatids.
On exposing the vertebral column, by removing the
viscera and muscles in front of it, the whole was found
strong and free from disease ; the nerves also passing out
from it were of the re~ular size and colour.
It was not deemed necessary to examine the spinal
•anal,
f
45
®ID~!ElliW~~a®~Sl
• I
lJfade after the Death of ~ll!iss lJf'At'O!f,
The appearance upon dissection, and the detail of the
symptoms in the Narrative and Continuation of this
Case, will confirm the general position laid down by the
anatomist, who minutely examines the different parts of
the human body, that the seat and cause·of disease are
frequently not found out by dissection ; and that the
cause which produced it is often very different from,
and incongruous with the symptom expressed. The
Physiologist must therefore expect to find this lesson
often repeated to him by the Anatomist. It proves how
easily he may err, when be wanders into the field of
conjecture. But still he may console himself in the re-
flection that sometimes enough may be discovered to ac-
count for many of the symptoms he has stated: and at
any rate he has performed a duty in detailing circum-
stances ofa curious nature which he has seen, and which
other individuals have witnessed as well as himself, whe-
ther they can be accounted for or not.
Bichat has said, that physiology deprived of the light·
which anatomy gives, proceeds only by chance. Itwas
for a long time only nourished by the flights of genius :
a vain display which the imagination had decked out,
but to be overturned by the breath of reason.
The Physiologist deeply skilled in anatomy does not
always obtain a proof of his reasoning being correc~,
when he even makes the research with his knife. Can we
then wonder, that in an object so complicated, and so
minutely constructed as the human frame, that it should
be difficult to discover the origin of disease, or the im-
mediate cause of death ? And more particularly when
that tlisease. may be seated in parts, in which their for-
mation would lead us to sa¥, thus far thou shalt go
and no farther. Vet, that reason which has been im-
planted into the mind of man, would not have been given
to him, had it not been intended he should exert it for his
own benefit; and for that of mankind in generaL Al·
though bounds seem to be set to our obtaining thatinti-
mate knowledge of the structure and offices of the brain,
and of the diseases dependant upon its derangement ;
yet it r11ay not be impossible ·or attainment, ,i·hen we
consider the rapid advances wbich have been made in
our knowledge of some of the component pnrts of the
human body; of the peculiar actions of each, and of the
nature of Hte fluids secret<!d upon the variOl1S surfaces of
the different membranes which are subservient to life.
· ·• ·However long it may be before we acquire thkilifor-
mation, or whatever failures may occur to paraly~e m,r
efforts in the pursuit of it, it is yet our duty to continue
, the inquiry with all the perseyerance in our power; to
remark symptoms; to give openly to the public our prnc:.
tice and opinions, aod we may then content ourselves
that, if we have opt obtained, we have at least de:;erved
success. · · · ' · · · · ·
I shall now endeavour to follow Mr. Harrison in hi:i
di~section, and to dmw from it those inference$, which
may throw some light npon the particular !"ymptoms
elicited in this case.
The general appearance of the body was lencophleg-
matic, or rather bordering up!Jn that of tallow. The
integuments abont the pel viil were sodistended as to gin~
preternatural breadth to thatregion,,'l<·hich lVJr.llltrrison
attributed to anasarca.
Wh~n tlte incision was made upon the breast I did not
observe any material serous exudation'; nor ·was there
any fluid ofmoment in the abdomen, but it was remarked
there was more adipous substance than u~ual at the age of
Utis subject. The fluctuation wllich appeared to me and
other"', filling the space between the last lumbar vertebra.
the middle of the ~acrum, and the hips. did not seem (be·
fore death) to be so diffused, as in general anasarc:i, but
to be in some measure confined to the parts above-named,
and to be more deeply seated. Upon examination after
death, this fluctuation had become more diffused, and its
former local situation was nether perceptible to the sight
nor to be felt by the touch. ·
· From the observation Miss M'Avoy made, that when
t~e discharge fro~ the left l~g was more abundant, the
Un
47
twelling above-mentioned became less, it appeared to me.
.
there might be some communication between them
The 11nasarca of this leg had disappeared for some time
before this deeper seated fluctuation was noticed; and
from the appearance the discharge had, when collected
upon the bread and milk poultice, I thought it very si-
milar, in consistence and colour, to the flnid subjected
to Dr. Bostock's analysis: this colour might however
have been caused by the union of serous fluid with the
milk usedin the poultice; for upon a deep incision being
made into the back of the leg after death, a considerable
quantity of fluid escaped, which was not tinged in this
manner, but had rather a darker appearance than the
serum of the blood.
Under the circumstances it was not possible to exa-
mine minutely, the spinal column, so as to see if there
were any outlet frpm which this fluid could have passed
down, where the fluctuation \vas felt upon the sacrum
and between the hips. Dr. Baillie has lately observed9
that ifthere be serous effusion between the membranes of
the brain, a portion of the serum may fall into the cavity
of the the cayertebralis, and press upon the lower part of
the spinal marrow. In this case we might easily ac-
count for the loss of power in the lower extremities, if
such pressure existed; but if necessary we might ba\·e
recourse' to the state of the brain itself, where the effects
of injury were certainly evident. In paralytic .affec-
tions often no trace appears in the brain to account for
them; and yet, when they occur in a part of the body,
or in th~ extremities, and cannot be traced to any cause
exbting in the immediate neighbourhood, or from local
iojury, we have no other resource but to look for the
cause in the brain. Mr. Harrison did not observe any
opening internally ; but w~ could not break through
the bony coverings, so as to examine if there were any
outlet by which the first fluid had escaped. Its dil!i~
charge certainly took place, relieved the com·ulsion~t,
and a great quantity passed down into the stomach;
was thrown up again, and a part which had not entered
the stomach ou the fourth day, was obtained, and after-
wards analyzed by Dr. Bostock.
After the death of this patient, it was observed that
fluid came down the nose and out of the sides of the .
mouth, as she lay upon her back; but when turned upon
,h~r face a very considerable quantity, which Mr. liar-
....~~.,
48
rison calls a clear watery mucus, was flowing from the
mouth and nostrils. I regret we did not preserve some
of tbi~; fluid; for it was in much greater quantity than
usually occurs, and appeared \'cry much to resemble
that which was obtained after the first attack of con\"ul-
sions. It might have been the more fluid part of that
effusion which had taken place upon the arachnoid
membrane, the traces of which were only observed by
a gelatinous appearance, which separated the brain
and its convolutions from a more close connexion with
this im·esting membrane. It may be remembered also
that a discharge took place through the nose and ear,
of a similar consistence to that which was observed upon
this membrane. It is also more reasonable to suppose
this to have been the case, than that it should have been
secreted in so great a quantity upon the mucous mem-
brane of the nose, because a peculiarity was observed in
this female, that she rarely blew her nose; and it was
therefore improbable, that so great a quantity of fluid
could have been secreted upon its surface. Her mother
informed me that if she were subjected to any domestic
uneasiness, a discharge now and then took place down
the nose, which was of so acrid a nature, as to excoriate
the adjacent parts; and it would seem not to have been
derived from the mucous membrane, but from a highea·
source, even the brain, its ventricles, or investing mem-
branes. I have already noticed in my observations pre·
vious to the death of Miss M'Avoy, that from obtaining,
on the fourth day after the com·ulsions seven ounces of
this fluid in the short space of one minute, the quantity
effused altogether must have been immense, and it must
have been liberated from the brain nearly in a ratio with
its quantum of secretion. To have contained tbi~ quan-
tity the brain, as well as the bones of the skull must
have been distended so as to have met the exigency.
This, however, could not happen in this instance, be-
cause death must have ensued, by the. compression this
accumulation of fluid would have caused upon the brain
if it had not found an outlet. From the compacted state
of the sutures also, the cranium had become ~;o firmly
united, as to render its extension, without absolute frac-
ture, impossible.
The anasarcous state of the legs and thighs had been
observed before at different times, and it sometimes
subsided. Previous to .the first attack of convulsions,
49
the anasarca of the lower extremities suddenly disap-
peared.*
Upon my first visit Miss lVI'Avoy complained of \Tio-
lent pain in the fore and back part of the head, with a
throbbing and beating sensation. The vessels of the
tunica conjunctiva were filled with red blood, but she
suffered very little uneasiness from the action of light.
She was so much affected with giddiness, as to stagger
in walking across the room. With the left eye she could
scarcely distinguish any object; and with the right, for
several days pr~vious to me seeing her, every objectat a
distance appeared white, and those which were near
double. It would seem therefore, that this sudden dis-
appearance of the swelling from the lower extremitiei
had caused these symptom.~; and we might reasonably
draw the inference of a metastasis having taken place,
and that this fluid had been diffused between the men-
inges, or deposited in the ventricles of the brain.
Convulsions certainly did occur, and had the brain not
been relieved by the discharge of this fluid death must
have ensued on or ahont the 12th of June, 1816, as we
left her in a most exhausted state, and without a proba-
ble chance of recovery. This recovery was however,
for the present obtained, and apparently, in conse-
quence of this discharge having taken place at the time
and in the manner mentioned in the Narrative.
•• I have stated this translation of serous fluid not to be a very uncommon
occurrence.· Indeed, ffi\lny cases are upon record, in which the fluid has sud-
denly disappeared from one part only to be deposited upon ;mother, IUld some-
times to be absorbed and dissipated altogether.
Instances occur, where more deleterious fluids have been removed from their
excretive organs; even pus h11.s been absorbed suddenly, and lefthardly a trace.
of its previous existence.
The two following instances will corroborate this opinion:-Mr. Udny in·
forms me, that Mr. Wilmot, of Dublin, in his Lectures, mentions the caseof a
gentleman (to whom he was called in,) who had been intoxicated the preceding
evening. He complained ofgreat pain in theabdomen, with a wish of passing
his urine, but he was unable to do so: the bladder was distended to a very
uimsual degree. Mr. Vv. went home for a catheter, and returned in half an
hour, when he found him in a state of coma: the tumour ofthe abdomen had
subsided, and in passingthe c;1theter into the bladder, it was empty•. He died
shortly after, and on dissection the ventricles of the brain were found full gf
a lluid of a curious smell and ~ppcarancc.
A gentleman, "·hen attending his medical studies in London, was scarcely
able to w11lk, in consequence of a bubo which had suppurated, was nc:.rly as
big as his fist, and the skin appeared ofthat colour and thinness, he thought it
must burst inthe night: but to hisastomshmcnt, in the morning, not a trace of
it rcmaincd,cxccpt that the skin wasa little more wrinkled on the one side than
on the othert He continued the course of mcuicine he wa~ before pc;rsuin:,,
and never felt any inconvenience afterward:>. · "
•
.o
l)()
1'he different attacks of conyul8ion were se,•eral time!'!
relieved, either in a similar way; by th~ discharge of a
,:e latinous fluid through the nose; by profuse perspira-
tion; or by the appearance of the catamenia. Once a
slig·ht discharge took place (of a gelatinous fluid) from
the ear.
Had she been permitted to survive a little longer, it is
probable one of the former results might have happened
again; for the legs and thighs were very much distended
with serous fluid ; and although the scarifications cau,ed
at times a very considerable discharge, it was not con-
:!!tant, and a part ofit during the period when it ceased,
might probably have been taken up by the absor·
bents, which being overloaded by this additional supply;
would naturally pour out throug·h the medium of.the ex-
halants this superfluity into some ~f the cavities; and as
it would appear this circumstance had taken place be-
fore, either iu the ventricles, or between the meninges
of the brain, it is more reasonable to suppose that it
would be deposited again upon these, rather than upon
other surfaces. Death, however, seized its victim before
this event could take place ; therefore, we have only the
appearance of the white spots up.on the arachn~id mem-
brane; ofthe gelatinous fluit.l betV\·een the convolutions
and interstices ofthe brain; the discharge of fluid from
the nose and mouth after death, aud the circumstances
which had occurred upon the cessation of the different
convulsions to snpport the opinion originally formed,
The attachment of the dura mater to the cranium,
the very strict union of the sutures, and the strong im-
pression of large vessels running in all directions upon
it, some of which were deeply furrowed in the bone,
shew that at one time or other strong action of the ves-
sels had existed. The cranium itself was very thick and
strong; felt extremely hetH·y, so as to give it the ap-
pearance of belonging to an adult male subject. The
dura mater was not altered in its structure. The glan-
duhe Pacchioni were not seen on the membrane, or In
the longitudinal' sinus, the walls of which were observed
io be thicker than ordinary.*
" It is curious that these glands were not vL'rible. In what manner can we
account for their disappearance, or extinction: their uses are ROt certuinly
~nown, and many physiologists think them of little imtJOrtance; yet they arc
al,tpo>t always fuund on the inside of the Longitudinal qnus, and uppear to bo
<'onnected with the opening of the vein.: they gcucrally <II'!"'>ar ot' a lle>hv eo~
Tgux, projectin~J like l>impks, or the e&g~ G! silL: wormo;. •
nt c
61
Wherever a thickening of parts tak<>s place we mu.;~t
suppose disease to have exi.;;ted; and, from the walls of
this sinus being thickened, it most probably bas arisen
from increased vascular action.
I have already spoken of the appearance of the arach-
noid membrane. 'l'he pia mater appeared pale; also
the whole surface of the brain. Very many large ves-
sels were distinctly ramified upon both sides, but they
contained no blood, and the entire aspect impressed us
with the idea that the brain was less vascular than usual.
In different cases, I have seen where patients have died
of hydrocephalus, particularly where they have been re-
lieved, and the disease has recurred, there is less ap-
pearance of vascularity, than where it terminates more
~uddenly, This patient was bled to a considerable ex-
tent; at first in small, but latterly in larger quantities,
and the very last bleeding shewed signs of the necessity
of meeting, with the fullest effect, the urgency of the
symptoms. This blood was firm, tenacious, and might
be held for a considerable time upon the point of a
knife without shewing: any murks of a weakened cohe•
sion of its particles. Indeed in the early bleedings, the
blood appeared sometimes much less tenacious. Since-
the .dissection some observations have been made, I
understand that the bleedings may have caused this
blanched appearance of the vessels of the brain, and
that we have pursued this plan of treatment to too great
an extent; but I am satisfied if it had not been particu-
larly attended to, she would have long since died of the
consequences of ,inflammatory action. Her own feel-
ings, the amelioration generally of the symptoms after
each bleeding, and my own experience of the benefit
resulting from the practice in this case, will justify me
in the means I pursued.
In the latter bleedings, the force with which the blood
rushed out of the orifice, even after the fillet was taken
off, is a poof that the stitch in the side produced violent
action in the heart and arteries; and this increased action
must also have beeu transmitted to the veins. The feel-
ings of the patient herself, as to the relief afforded, is
the best comment upon the propriety of the practice.
The brain aud cerebellum were generally healthy in
their appearance, excepting that they had a paler as-
f>ect upon their surface, and through their substance.
'
52
from th~ ,·esseIs not being so filled with red bloqd as i!
usually seen in su~jects where no long-continued affec-
.tion of the brain has existed.
The first, second, and third ventricles appeared in
their usual state; but the fourth ,-entricle shewed mark!
of disease.
This alteration of structure was probably owing to
the cause .Mr. Harrison assigned, ,·iz. " inflammation."
Could serous effusion have been produced by this cause,
and ofsuch an amount as to haYe accountPd fur the dis-
charge of the tluid, which is supposed tu ha,·e passed
down from the brain into the stomach, through the nose
and ear ; and to have made a lodgement between the
bips, after passing down the vertebral theca: or, was it
only derived from the effu~ion caused by inflammation
of the arachnoid membrane, the remains of which were
seen in the g-elatinous substance which appeared in the
convolutions and interstices of the brain? ln whatever
way it was produced, it is certain some fluid existed,
was passed down into the stomach, through the nose
tmd ear, and was felt by diU'crent individuals between
the hips.
The olfactory nen·es had a healthyappearance; behind
these the uniori of the optic nerves on the sphenoid bone
was seen smaller than usual, very thin, and flaccid, as if
thenervous substance did notfill the im;estiug membrane,
A little pale fluid being between the nerve and its tunic.
The nenes also from this to the orbit appeared ,·ery
thin and flat, more particularly the left, which was pe-
culiarly flaccid and delicate.
On opening the orbit, much loose and watery fat was
.obsen·ed. The muscles of the eye-ball were very weak
and pale. The nen•es were all distinct, and the optic
appeared of the usual size and consistence, but on cut-
ting across both of these nerves. the red spot pointing
out the situation of the arteria eentrali!' retinre, so
commonly seen on this occasion, was not observed, nor
were any of its branches discovered either in the retina
or piercing the vitreous tumour. The more than usual
quantity of adeps might be accounted for, from the cir-
cumstance that there was generally n predisposiHon in
this subject to the ac;cnmnlation of fat, which might ha,•e
nrisen from the quiescent state in which the body wai
kept by her inability to move about. In this particnlur
mvc
..
53
part of the body, it;; loose and watery appearance might
have been caused by the diminished excitement which a
$tateof blindness would naturally produce. Had sight ex-
isted, and the motions of the different parts of the eye
been properly exercised, thissuperfluity would have been
necessarily removed by the quicker action of the ab-
sorbents.
The muscles of the eye-ball were very weak and pale,
which bas been supposed to have arisen partly from the
Joss of blood, but when we consider the general relief
afforded by the bleedings, (which were never greater
than to meet the exigency of the case) the state of the
blood, with respect to its firmness and tenacity, in the
very last bleeding, we can hardly attribute the state of
these muscles to the detraction of blood ; for if this had
been the cause of their weakness and palenes>', we might
have expected to have ·seen more imperfection in the
coats an<i humours of the eye, as well as in the muscles;
in~tead of which, the membranes, humours, &c. of this
beautiful organ, even to the punctum aureum of Soem-
mering, were seen in a perfectly healthy state: they
could not all have existed in this stah~ without a due
distribution of blood ; but in what way could the retina
ha,·e received a proper supply ofblood, if its own artery
were obliterated? For the purpose of its mere existence
as a membrane, it might be supplied wHh sufficient
blood, by some small twigs from the ciliary arteries; but
for that of villion, probably more would be required, to
give the minute branches of the nerve their proper nou-
rishment and sensibility. '
It appears to me, that the weakened action of these
muscles arose from the Joss of vision, which prevented
them from being exercised in a proper manner. If a
muscle be not brought into action for a long period, it
will become incapable of producing any of those moti-
ons which were natural to it; and ifan attempt be made
to reco,·er the tone it has lost from disu,:e, a ::;trongersti-
mulus will be required to bring it into action, and it mnst
be employed cautiously and frequently, to restore it to
its pristine vigour. The etfects of convulsion were per-
ceived in this peculiar case, lvhen it gave additional sti-
mulus to these muscle!!, and excited them into extreme
action; hut when it ceased, the motion of the eye-balls
were probably still more weakened, because a too sud-
f
64
den and strong excitement produces a great degree of
debility afterwards.
. The functions of the retina could not be performed
.by the nerve alone, because the nerves depend as much
for ~upport upon the circulation of blood, as the blood-
vessels depend upon nervous influence for the con-
tinuation of their action. It has been observed that
the pupil of the left eye had fewer motions than the
right, and we find, from the dissection, that its nerve
was peculiarly flaccid and delicate. The opponents of
Miss M'Avoy, may of course, reason upon this general
healthy state of the eyes, as a proof that she possessed
the power of vision ; but they mu~t at the same time re-
collect, that in amauro>is little alteration sometimes ap-
pears in the structure of the eye, its membranes, coats,
humours, or vessels. The optic nen-e may not appear
altered in its structure, upon dissection, whilst its
powers were allowed to be so totally inert during life
as to produce blindness. If, however, in addition to
the obliteration of the central artery of the retina and
its branches, we find an altered structure of the optic
nerves at their union upon the sphenoid bone, as de-
monstrated by their smallqess, thinness, and flaccidity ;
as if the nervous substance did not fill the investing
membrane; a pale fluid inten-ening between the sub-
stance of the nerve and its tunic, which must ne~es­
sarily press upon that substance; and the nen·€1& af-
ter their divi~ion from this point to the orbit, being \-cry
thin and flat, we cannot doubt that these appearances
must have been cause.d by disease, and that of no small
moment. ·
If we consider this case in all its bearings, the symp-
toms which preceded Miss M'Avoy's blindness; the con·
vulsions \Vhich followed ; the discharge of serous fluid
which remO\'ed thel'e convulsions; her peculiar powers,
asexhibited in situations where sightcould haYe no influ·
ence ; the insensibility of the eyes upon exposure to the
rays of the vivid sun, or to the most brilliant colours of
the solar spectrum, thrown suddenly, and in alJ direc-
tions upon them ; a similar insensibility to the sudden ap~
plication of any pointed, or other instrument; her per~
feet indifference upon a pistol being suddenly pointed at
her; the want of irritability in the-cornea or ball of the
eye, wh!'!n a probe or other su~stance was pressed upon,
. • 1
Un G 1 D
55
or pas!'led over it and the pupil, we shall hardly reqnlre
the aid of disease to prove her blindness.
From these considerations I think a strong cs,se will
appear in support ofour opinion that Miss M'Avoy was
blind from the time · specified in the Narrative, to the
period of her death.
THORA4.
The principal appearances in this cavity, wer~ a consi-
derable- quantity of loose adipose substance coveringthe
pericardium in greater abundance than is usual at the
age of this subject.
The lungs were healthy. There was not the least ap-
pearance of disease in them. No adhesions existed be-
tween tlte pleura pulmonalis, and costalis. ·
I have stated in my remarks previous to her death,
that the catching and oppression in the breathing made
me fear adhesiens, which so commonly are seen in the
dissection of dead bodies, might have existed in this case
to a serious extent; but the cessation of these symptoms
after the bleedings and scarifications, induced me to al-
ter this opinion, and to imagine that some peculiar irri-
tability acting on the nerves, supplying the neighbour-
ing parts, was the cause not only of these harassing
symptoms, but of the convulsive affection of the di·
aphragm. This opinion is confirmed by the dissection.
Tbe symptoms of pneumonia which occnrred in Au-
gust last, induced me to prescribe bleeding repeatedly,
and it has been often supposed (by the intelligent men
who saw her labouring under the effects of this disease)
she would have borne still larger bleedings at the time.
It was attended with a very harsh cough, which conti-
nued for a considerable time after the other symptoms
were relie,·ed. In this case, however, no appearance of
former disease remained on the surface of the lungs, or
in its substance : yet a larger quantity of fluid appeared
in each cavity of the chest than usual, which might have
been produced by exudation upon a serous surface from
inflammation of its membrane.
It will be the business of more able anatomists than
myself, and who have had more opportunities of in,~es·
tigating the seat and cause of disease, (from dissection,)
to determine, whether by the active means which were
used to relieve inflammatory action, it might not be pos-
sible to pre,·eut these appearances of diseased surfaco
which commonly occur where the~e means have not
been used in proper time.
The same observation will apply also to the disap-
pearance of all the tqmours, previous to the death of
this patient, except that between the hip:<, which after-
wards gaye the appearance of preternatural breadth to
them. . . . .
The peculiarsymptoms mentioned in the Narrath·c and
in the Continuation of this Case, wonhllead me to sup-
pose we might trace the cause of many of them from the
state of the heart and pericardium. The fluid c~n­
tained in the pericardium was about four ounces: Mr.
Harrison says only three, but about an ounce was lost
io pouring it out from a cup into a phial, and nearly as
much was left in the cavity. The quantity taken to the
Infirmary, was exactly two ounces and a half. The ef-
fusion of this fluid marks a diseased action to have taken
place upon its surface, and most probably from inflam-
mation.
The accumulation of fat marks a diminution, or a de-
ficiency in the active powers of the heart. The appear-
ance of the ~erous membrane covering the' heart indi-
cated inflammation to have existed, and it particularly
sb'ewed itself m•ar its apex. Mr. Harrison supposes this
to have long- since tlubsidcd. The violent stitch she so
frequently felt, ,,·as indicath·e of present inflammation,
or, at least of diseased structure, which prevented the
functions of the heart from being properly performed.
·The weakness of the \Valls of the right ventricle, might
cause the blood not to be propelled with it~ usual force,
and in its proper quantity, into the pulmonic artery,
and from tllis artery through the substance of the lungs;
and this weakened state may also account for that
}leculiar symptom of oppres~ion which was caused by
placing tlte hand so near the mouth as to intercept the
breath; because any sudden interruption to the re-
ception of atmo~pheric air into the lungs of so irritable
anhabitmust ha,·e the effect of impeding the oxygenati9n
vf that blood which is to be returued through the pul-
c ,,
67
monary veins, into the left auriele, then into the left ,-en·
tricle, and from thence into the aorta and its ramifi·
cations.
It is impossible to say when this inflammation of the
membrane covering the heart commenced. · In June
1816, she complained of palpitation of the hPart, and of
oppression in the breathing, but at that time I looked
upon these symptoms asdependant upon the enlargement
of the liver, and upon the tense and incompressible state
ofthe abdomen. A~ these symptoms, afterthe u~e of mer-
cury, were removed in the course of that year, I think it
more probable they were symptomatic of the state of
the liver and abdomen, than that any active inflamma-
tion existed at that period in the heart or upon its innl.ilt-
ing membrane.
The appearances around the semilnnarvalves marked
incipient disease, which miglit, at a later period of life,
have terminatP.d in ossification.
It cannot be deci:!:h·ely known when this inflammation
of the inve!'1tingw m~mbrane of the heart first commenced,
but it is probable it preceded the more vwlent symptom
of catching in the breathing. The <'Onvulsh·e motion of
the diaphragm might also haYe been deri•;ed from the
same cau!'le. The connexion between the heart and
muscles of respiration, independent of any other cause,
will account for the first ; and that of the phrenic nerve
with the heart, will bear me out in the opinion, that the
latter symptom oiiginated from this connection between
the heart and the diaphragm.
The flnid contained in the pericardium most probably
owed its origin to the inflammation· of the surface of its
membrane, and many of the peculiar symptom~ might
ha\·e been caused by the effects of this inflammation.
The heart is an organ of that actirc and important
nature, that the least alteration in its structure may Jay
the foundation of serious disease; and we often see that
it proceeds in its course, until it terminate in ~ome hor-
rible kind of death. If disease exist in itself, or in its
membranes, and that disease he only incipient, it may
occasion symptoms of a cmious and indefinable natnrco.
Of this kind is the ;;:eusation "he expressed ofa cold ring
of iron placed upon th~~ point of the heart; an(\ of the
cold drop of water falling within the centre of the ring·,
previous to the stitch coming oo.
ln what way are these symptoms to be accounted
for? The catching and oppre.llsiun ofthe breathing, and
the convulsive affection of the diaphragm, as the lungs
were sound, must ha\·e arisen from the state of the heart,
which however slightly diseased, might hl!ve produced
these peculiar symptoms through the medium of the
nerves communicating from that organ, with the mus-
cles of respiration and with the diaphragm.
Miss M'Avoy was occasionally subject to palpitation
of the heart, and any sudden noise or alarm frequently
threw her into a state of insensibility. The first symp-
tom·may be derived from the same cause .which pro-
duced the catching and oppression in the breathing, and
the convulsive affection of the diaphragm; or from ner-
vous irritability. The latter-effect must have been owing
to the peculiarly irritable state of the brain alone.
It appears Miss M'Avoy was very backward in her
learning; sewed very indifferently; and had litte acute-
ness in her perceptions pre\·ious to the discharge of the
fluid: but afterwards she learned every thing with ease,
sewed very well, and her perceptions were \·ery acute.
These circumstances can only be accounted for from
some peculiar change having take~ place in the state of
the brain. She occasionally exhibited symptoms of
hysteria, and some persons, before the dissection, ha,·e
supposed the convulsions which affiicted her, to have
been hysterical, but this opinion does not appear to be
correct, as many ofthem came on without being attend-
ed with this disease.
Hysteria, is one of tho most Proteus-like diseases we
are acquainted with; but Miss M'Avoy seemed to en-
deavour to check any disposition to it in herself; and as
there were traces found of disease in the braln, we must
have recourse to it for an explanation of the cause ofthe
convulsions.
The peculiar sensibility of the fingers I have given
proofs of; but, it will not be easy to explain in what
way it has originated. It was only known to herself
about three months after her blindness came on. Could
it have existed before? And that, from the circum-
stance of her seeing at the time, this power was not
known even to herself. Or, is it not more probable that
the same cause whiqh produced a brighter intellect,
than she before possessed, might bm·e also gh·en !l
59
great degree of sensibility to the nerves of the finger~,
and of some other parts of the surface of the body?
ABDOMEN.
No disease appeared in this cavity, unless we attribnte
to disease, the pllle yellow colour of the )i,·er, its great
enlargement, and its softne~s. I have little doubt the
liver had been diseased, and that the frequent use of
m~rcury had restored it .to a more healthy state. The
general teusiQn of the Abdomen.was relieved in the ear-·
ly period of my attendance, and apparently by the use of
the mercury and purgatives.
The mesenteric glands were supposed originally, to
have been nffected; or, whence these tumours in the Ab-
domen spoken of previous to my first visit"?
It is a curious fact, that no tumour, or vestige of a
tumour, was obserYed in these parts on dissectio·n, because
not only from the symptoms, but from the elevation of
the tumour above the ~mrrounding parts it did ap-
pear to exist, and o,uly subsided upon the discharge of
matter at different Jjmes through the bladder. From
what cause this appearance of tumour orginated, or
whence this matter was derived, will be difficult to ex-
plain ; but certainly the former was noticed by different
indiYiduals, and the latter subjected to the test of expc~
riment, which prayed its nature.
The kidneys were larger than naturalj particularly the
right; were both paie, and contained internally, more
fat than usual: the several capsules had suffered no
change.
Is it probable that the purulent matter pa~sed off with
the urine could have been secreted in this organ, with-
out lcadng a trace behind it?
The Psoas muscles were cut into, but there appeared
no remains of disease.
The ureters and urinary bladder were perfectly heal-
thy. The symptoms of dysuria and pain have probably
been caused by irritation only; or sc:'nne marks of disease
would have surely appeared.
The Uterus was very small. Doth on1ria were dis-
eased, or enlarged to the size of a hen's <'gg, and con-
tained an infinite number of small hydatids. The state
of the uterm; may account for the suppression and al-
h
Un v C
60
tered appearance oftbe catamenia; and it is probable this
affection of the uteru;., and of the ovaria may have pro
duced that variable and unsettled state of the stomach ·
and bowels which so often affected her.
The entire case of (his female is now before the pub-
lic, and it will jud~e ho\V far the appearances npon dis-
section may enable us to account for ht>r blindness, and
many of the symptoms which ha\·e occurred; and whe·
ther the proof•, 1 have adduced, of her possessing pecu-
liar powers through the medium of her fingers, are not
tmfficient to corroborate the statements orig-Inally made
in the Narrative and which were supported at the-time
by the evideuce of many other indh·iduals.
F I~ IS.
Kie;tun, l'rinter, Liverpool.
Un Cal D a
