{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bobby_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Bobby H NDE 2494","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bobby H NDE 2494  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bobby H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						776  Bobby H NDE  2494  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Fisherman, Cuba-Canada long liner, I jumped ship 02/18/2000. In Key West, my roommate's pet boas died. I'm from Alaska, so I skinned them out, the virus got in me when I skinned the snakes. 05/23/2000 I left on the bus for Alaska via Seattle. I got to Seattle and was so sick; I took a room at the youth hostel. 05/27/2000 - 05/28/2000 I was so sick I called 911 at 7:00 pm.

At 10:00 pm I died, on the glass table. They shocked me back to life; I died again, shocked back to life. Came out of a coma 06/03/2000.

While I was dead, I sat next to a guy who looked exactly like Anthony Quinn in 'Zorba the Greek'- in the closing shot where he's sitting on the fantail of his yacht. We were in a twelve to fifteen feet crater, a pickup truck bombed out burnt up across the entire top, nine inches of light could be seen all around. I was on his left side looking right. He didn't turn to me he just said, 'You're going to be okay.' I didn't know, I was not okay, I was just there and he just said it to me, that was all he said. I knew it was important but had no clue what this okay meant, just that I knew it was going to be okay - God, or Jesus, or an angel (???) said so. I was shocked back.

I could see the room seven to nine doctors doing all kinds of things to me. I could not feel - like a funny haze - I died the second time. I was back in the hole - next to the guy - and we sit there. Outside its dark people are running to escape or find hiding or something. He turns to me and just says, 'Look I told you you're going to be okay.' I had no clue I was not okay, they shocked me back to life.

I came out of a comma on 06/03/2000 - date of birth is 06/03/1960. I always call my dad on my birthday, and came out of a comma to call him. I know I did it was me I was there. A nurse was there who tried to get me to sign a paper for release, so they could give me a new liver and kidney. I said, 'No I'm going to be okay.' She told me I was in a comma and was now dying, my kidneys and liver have died and no one knows what's wrong, my time is up. I said, 'No I'm going to be okay.' She said I was crazy - who's my next of kin? I said, 'Don't cut me or gut me!!! I'm going to be okay!!! If I die that's okay. Measure me, box me, bake me, throw my ashes out to sea, and have a party with the cash in my pocket!!!' They said I was crazy and called my mom in Texas. She's a Baptist Sunday school teacher and will pray for anything in a drop of a hat!!.

The nurse told her I was dying, and I would not sign the papers. Mom asked what I said? The nurse told her (on the phone next to my bed) - she said, 'He's crazy. No one in their right mind would turn down a new liver and kidneys. He's almost dead and will be soon if he doesn't get the transplant. He said, 'Don't cut me or gut me. If I'm through I'm through. I'm going to be okay, and if I'm not just measure me, box me, bake me and throw my ashes to the sea.'.

Mom said, 'He's not crazy!! Don't cut him, or gut him. If he dies, measure him, box him, bake him, and throw his ashes to the sea - just like he told you!!!' She was serious.

Mom called sister Carrol (hyper spiritual - direct line to God). She called to talk - then she says I'll call you tomorrow. The nurse said, 'I think you better say everything. He's not going to be here tomorrow.' I told Carrol God said I was going to be okay - talk to you tomorrow.

The doctors found the antivirus medications that worked. No one could believe I said no thanks. The doctors said I had no more liver or kidneys - it would be dialysis twice a week for life. I didn't believe them. I was told I was going to be okay, wheel chair, and if I was lucky a walker. 'Sure, a lot you know,' I said, '@^*#!!!'.

06/14/2000 it was obvious I was not dead yet. Some nurse lost her paycheck in that pool!! They had a social worker try to sign me up for a hospice (cancer, AIDS, tuberculosis) place to go die!! I said no!! They asked where I wanted to go, its already cost the state $145,000 to keep me alive this long, and other patient's need a maximum care bed. I said Texas to stay with my mom. That day they got me in a wheelchair rolled me to the double sliding glass doors, unplugged my four drip bottles, put a taxi ticket in one hand, and an airplane ticket to Texas in the other. I flew home to Texas - almost died in San Francisco airport lobby - made it to Texas.

Now, as a fisherman, my $2000 bike follows me in a box - it ended up in Texas also. Each day, I would struggle to walk outside (walker had a horn and rear-view mirror - very funny), put a couple of bolts on the bike, and struggle back in - each day further and further. On the fifth day, I stopped taking my meds (a huge bag that I needed to live). I was supposed to go for dialyses two times a week - I never went a single time!!????? I got better and better - soon my bike was together and I went riding, close to the house - very weak. Soon I'd get so far mom had to come get me in the truck. Then I managed all the way and back.

08/01/2000 I took the Greyhound bus to Key West Florida to stay with sister Carrol. Recovered in the gardens.

09/01/2000 I flew back to Boston and went back out to sea fishing on the ship --'Jacqueline L' for another year.  Just so you know, I've seen a lot of big men bite the dust fishing, it's the hardest job in the world. I'm a fifteen year veteran of fishing.

Now I can no longer do the job. I live in Maui now - and believe in God. Being a Christian is not about how many times a week you go to church, it's how many times in the week you act like God would want you to (and that means keeping your mouth shut about it). There's a lot more to the story but that's the basics.

Thanks, DaCPTN.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 5/28/2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 

  My liver, kidneys, bone marrow, died from lepto spirosis/virus infection.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I just knew this guy was way up the pole - so to speak.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was dead.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     God? Jesus?  Angel? Advanced thought adjuster? Spiritual guide? Now today I'm not sure, all I know is he was important.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       In awe of this person - I knew him - I was not religious, but knew about God.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I already expressed that.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I already expressed that.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know there is more.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I often have out of body experiences; feel spirits; know future events; and can do anything first time. Examples: carve portraits in shell. I build computers, no one taught me, I can't use, only build.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The repeat  - just to let me know like - listen I just got through telling you (that's not what he said, just how it felt to be there again) - like the first time didn't sink in.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    No one can believe it I build custom computers - never read one manual in my life. I carve beautiful whale's tails and mermaids - the owner of Wiland Galleries in Lahaina (whale guy) his wife wears one of my whale tails made out of golden lapis mother or pearl shell I carved while talking to God one day.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Hundreds of times. I ran away from home in 1976, you have no idea!! And have been traveling ever since.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Point blank matter of fact happened and that's that.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Nothing, no torture, nothing you can do to me will ever, ever convince me I was not there, not if you cut off my fingers one at a time, or slice my mother up in little pieces in front of me!!! And I mean that!!!!  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Two or three out of body experiences while being creative.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       You should try it sometime it just might change the eyes you look out of.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       There comes a time in each person's life, when gold loses its luster and diamonds cease to sparkle. That special time, when we all start to search, and quest, and seek, that hidden voice which speaks inside, yet no one hears, that special time, when all the good we do means less than a simple smile put on a strangers face by our own unselfish acts of kindness. You can take that to the bank, because money won't get you in heaven.    

DaCPTN.   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bobby_h_nde.html