{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bobbie_t_obe.html","mytitle":"Bobbie T Experience 6887","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bobbie T Experience 6887  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bobbie T Experience  					  					  						Home  						Classification OBE  			3447 Bobbie T Experience 6887  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was admitted to the hospital to try and stop labor when I was thirty four to thirty five weeks pregnant with twins. After nineteen hours, an emergency Cesarean Section was performed due to distress of one baby. The anesthesiologist gave me medication to put me to sleep and I did go to sleep, sort of. It was odd. I couldn't move or respond, so I appeared to be out but I could see and hear and feel everything. I felt them strap my arms down and intubate me. Then the doctor started to cut open my abdomen, and the pain was unbearable. I started yelling in my head at the doctor to stop and I was screaming at them, but they couldn't hear me. The doctor asked the anesthesiologist if I was out enough and he zapped me in the left temple with some type of electrical ‘gun’. I yelled at him to stop that, that it hurt. The pain just went on and on, I was panicking.

I felt the doctor pull both babies out and my body pulled up off the table with each baby. The babies both peed and the doctors and nurses laughed. I remember thinking that I shouldn't be able to feel all this, let alone hear and see the people in the room.

The next thing I remember was turning my head to the right, but I knew that was impossible since my head was strapped down. To my right was the most beautiful white soft glowing light. At this point, I no longer felt any pain, although I could still hear what was going on in the room. I felt as if I was going to the light and I was very happy and pain free. I heard one of the babies cry and I quickly turned my head and could see the room as if from far away, just then a male voice, over my right shoulder, said to me, ‘It's not time yet, go back.’ It was a beautiful, kind and loving voice. Next thing I knew I had literally slammed into my body with such force and the pain started all over again. They must have given me more anesthesia as I went out completely shortly after returning.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/15/87

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   It was an emergency Cesarean section of twins.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear the doctors and nurses talking, but it didn't seem to be that important. Only when I heard one of my babies cry did I turn around to look.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I guess I was alert during the whole experience. The alertness I felt when I left my body was really no different than normal other than there was no pain and such complete happiness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was not like regular everyday seeing. I could see, but it didn't feel like I was using my eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I guess my hearing was about the same as normal. But again it didn't seem to be my ears that were doing the hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was white and soft and glowing. The most beautiful light I had ever seen.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, happiness, and awe.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am a born-again Christian.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     consistent with my belief in heaven, but not with the soul leaving the body and feeling like I was floating, or the quick slamming return

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I started searching for God. I accepted Jesus as my Lord.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   The voice was that of a man. He seemed to be behind my right shoulder. He was very loving and kind. He said, ‘It's not time yet, go back.’

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I knew the light was God. Can't tell you how I knew that, just seemed to know it.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I would be needed by my twins. My purpose was to protect them and raise them and my three year old.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I just knew that life goes on, but I can't tell you how I knew that, I just did.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I knew I was loved completely.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I know there is an afterlife, and that I will go there when my body dies. I know that God and Jesus exist and that they love me completely.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I guess I am more compassionate and understanding of people and their fears.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I felt like there weren't words to explain it. I knew more than I could say. I also felt that people might think I was crazy or under pain medication.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   When I think about it I can remember it in detail. I know that I saw heaven and was going there. It was so real that I can still feel the awe that I felt when I saw the light.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I cannot wear a watch with a battery. I also seem to drain camera batteries quickly or make them act weird. My camera will show them as being a quarter full and then I take them out rub them or blow on them and then they read full again. A very annoying thing at times.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was all meaningful. Very hard to explain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next night while in the hospital I shared it with my husband, a friend, and my mother. They looked at me very strange. My husband was affected but not right away.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew it was real. I can't really put it into words.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened and I feel very privileged to have been allowed a glimpse.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bobbie_t_obe.html