{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bobbie_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Bobbie K NDE 4285\/8166","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bobbie K NDE 4285/8166  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bobbie K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2111 Bobbie K NDE 4285/8166  					  				  			        			  			  				                  Experience Description 8166:  					</p>  					When I drowned, I experienced excruciating pain for what seemed like  a second. Then it became natural for me to breathe water. I remember my thoughts very clearly because I thought I had become a mermaid. My body undulated in the water, as if I had a tail that moved up and down like that of a mermaid or a dolphin. I also remember making a decision to keep my eyes open. I wanted to see where I was going as  the light was beckoning me to follow it.   
  
Before long, I started speeding up. I was moving so fast that my body couldn’t keep up with me. I felt blissfully free and ecstatic. I entered a tunnel with a bright light at its end. Then, I became part of that Light. I saw no one, yet I knew I was in the presence of God.  

  On the other side of life, I was enveloped in warmth and love such as I had never before experienced. I felt safe, free, and limitless. Although I cannot recall any visual images, I knew that I was home. I was totally supported in anything I could possibly want to do. I was part of the Universe; I was a part of the sun; and  I was a part of God! I had a feeling of total safety and was deliriously happy. I was not aware of being a child or having any form, but I knew who I was. I knew I was a part of everything, but I also had a sense of individual identity. I was filled with love and joy.   
  
  Then I heard some voices in the distance calling  my name. My mother was crying and telling me to breathe. I knew I had to go back and chose to do so, despite  looking toward the Light and begging to stay. Suddenly, I felt excruciating pain. People were hitting my back, trying to get me to breathe. I was taking air into my lungs and it hurt as much as taking water in had hurt when I drowned. I was angry about the pain. I was angry about having to be ‘born’ again. It hurt! To this day, when I get a massage on my back, that anger rises from my cell memories.   
  
I was revived shortly after I drowned, but nothing was the same again. Something happened to me that I could not put into words. It was a ‘knowing’ that challenged my thoughts and beliefs for the rest of my life. I had vague memories of my drowning, but what happened after that defied my knowledge or experience as a child. I carried images and feelings in my heart that I knew were not memories and had very little to do with my physical experience.   

  I started meditating for long periods of time in a dark place. I lived in Hungary where many apartments had an inner and an outer door with a space of about two feet between them. I sat in this space in total silence with my doll. I felt at peace as  I craved the familiar peace from my experience.  
  
Another place I spent time was in front of a three-way mirror. If I tilted the mirrors at just the right angle, I could see many images of myself, the mirror, and my doll. I imagined the images seeing even more images. I wondered if there was an end to the images of me or an end to me, period. Instinctively, I knew there wasn’t. I became obsessed with infinity.   

My infinity obsession did not stop in front of the mirror. When I started school, I asked my father to teach me how to multiply. Instead of two times two, however, my numbers were millions and zillions. He thought it was a rather odd request, but I assured him that I wanted to make him proud by getting the best marks in my class.   

  Although I lived in a communist country, I went to church and had weekly classes in religious education. A priest would come to our school or sometimes we went to a chapel. I loved these sessions because the priest read fascinating stories to us. His instruction was more spiritual than religious. I couldn’t get enough.   
  
  The priests were part of our community and we spent a lot of time with them. I challenged a young priest with constant questions. I asked things like ' how many buckets it would take to empty the oceans of the world' or 'how many steps I would have to climb on Jacob’s Ladder in order to reach Heaven.' He, in turn, asked how long it would take me to figure out the mystery of the Holy Trinity. I told him I already knew that one. I knew because I had ‘experienced’ the answer. I no longer remembered how I knew, but that knowledge became my truth. I knew that I was a very powerful being, that I was a part of God, and that my Spirit would never die. I was Spirit in a human incarnation.  
  
  The church was just behind my home and on the way to my grandmother’s house. Each day, I went in either for mass, benediction, or just to meditate. I loved the smell of incense, the light of the candles, and the peaceful feeling I had when I sat in a pew next to a coffin that contained the remains of a saint. I felt safe there. Another place that brought me peace was the cemetery. I played there almost every day, visiting my baby uncle, aunt, and cousin’s graves. I would carry on conversations with them. The gravediggers knew me well and were amused by my many questions and insights.   
  
I lived much of my life inside my head and created dreams for myself. I taught myself how to create my life. To this day, I feel at least partly responsible for the Hungarian Revolution. I wanted desperately to come to ‘Amerika,’ and I put a lot of desire and energy into that dream.   

  In the university, I studied English and philosophy. I found philosophy very disturbing because it asked me to question everything that finally made sense to me. I also recalled a ‘knowing’ that was buried deep inside. I didn’t comprehend what that was, because in those days, what happened to me was not written or talked about. I repressed it consciously, but it kept creeping into my life. For example, the final thesis I wrote for my English degree was called 'The Intersection of Time and Eternity.'   
  
  I was almost 30 years old when I realized that I had had a near-death experience. It was a secret I carried inside me that was secret even from myself. Then one day, I saw a TV program about NDEs. From then on, I started devouring books on the subject. Suddenly, everything made sense.  I understood why I perceived life in such a different way.   
  
Once I realized that I had ‘died,’ I knew I could help take the fear from others who were facing this transition challenge. For a number of years, I was a hospice volunteer, helping people deal with their biggest fear. I put together prayers, readings, and music that I thought would make the process easier for those who were about to transition.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1952

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Drowning       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than norma.l   Emotionally, I had never experienced that kind of unconditional love and understanding.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I drowned, I was very aware of being in water. I went through a tunnel and then out of my body and into the light. I can still see that light when I meditate.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was aware of being in water and thinking that I could breathe underwater. I thought I was a mermaid. I was also aware that I was speeding out and away from my body.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No awareness of special hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I started to speed up and was conscious of leaving my body behind as I entered the tunnel and sped into the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Warmth and light covered me like a blanket.   I heard a message in my heart.  'My Dear Child!' it said,   'I cherish you and bless you.  You are a beacon, my shining star.   Filled with my Light. That’s who you are.'

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     With my eyes wide open, I was guided by the Light. The Light was so familiar. I felt  so loved and so free.  It was far from illusion and headed toward the sea.  I reached a tunnel; the water was gone; and   my body no longer was in sight.  My spirit soars at lightning speed ahead.  Much to my delight,  I find myself on other side of life.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       With my eyes wide open, I saw the Light.  My being was filled with pure delight.  I thought, 'Where am I? What place is this?   It is so bright! So bright!'  I melted into a warm embrace. I felt no fear, not even a trace   of regret,  sorrow,  judgment, or pain.   There was only love;   Nothing but love. It was   warm love,   overwhelming love,   precious love, expanding, embracing, accepting, nourishing, and arms-wide-open   BIG HUG LOVE!  My SELF expanded.   I knew I was in the presence of God.  I breathed His love into my perfect soul.   'I love you and I am always with you.'   I heard God’s message loud and clear.   And then it was over. I felt a tear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not believe in Sin, Salvation, or Saviors. I feel that I am a part of God.  The God I know is only loving and positive.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic   Spiritual but not religious.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I believed in God, but this God did not have a face and was not Jesus. It made religion harder for me to accept.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that God is unconditional love and cannot accept most religions.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin     

  Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I became aware of unconditional love, such as I had never experienced before.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I did not see any landscape or people, only the light.  But it was amazing.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I knew I was in the presence of God, whose message to me was, 'I love you and I am always with you.'

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I understood that what I knew was not all there was. I have been searching all my life for answers.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I was told I had to go back and understood that I was part of God.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists.     Yes     I experienced unconditional love and felt I was in the presence of God, but not the God of my earthly religion.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I wrote a poem about all this. Here is the part that describes the love: 

  There was only love.   Nothing but love—  warm love,   overwhelming love,   precious love, expanding, embracing, accepting, nourishing, arms-wide-open   BIG HUG LOVE!

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life   

    Since I was a young child, I was not really aware of what had happened to me. But I did become obsessed with infinity.  I lived much of my life inside my head and created dreams for myself. I taught myself how to create my life. 

For example, the final thesis I wrote for my English degree was called 'The Intersection of Time and Eternity.'   For more than 30 years, I went to many conferences on Spirituality and obtained 16 energy healing certificates. I manifested many things in my life that seem hard to believe. I've written 900 children's books and truly believe that I can achieve anything I want in life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I value people in my life and feel that they are a part of me even after they have died.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  My experience is not a memory. It is a 'knowing' that is part of my life. I experience it often during meditation.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have always been able to manifest almost anything I wanted in life if I believed I could.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Feeling that incredible love and knowing it is always there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I did not know what had happened to me until I read about NDEs after I was 30 years old. I do share it with people. Those who are spiritual, love to hear about it. Those who are religious do not believe me. I worked as a hospice volunteer for several years and am thinking of returning to it. I have written a book about my NDE, but I did not publish it. Parts of it are being used at funerals by a local minister.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It took me many years to find out what I had experienced. I was just a child so I did not understand what happened to me. But even then, I knew it was real. Something happened to me that I could not put into words. It was a ‘knowing’ that challenged my thoughts and beliefs for the rest of my life. I had vague memories of my drowning, but what happened after that defied my knowledge or experience as a child. I carried images and feelings in my heart that I knew were not memories and had very little to do with my physical experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Because of all the things I did in my life that I could not explain, I know that this experience was the start of it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I sometimes feel the love and light during meditation. Most people who have drowned are scared to go near or in water, but I feel happiest when I am in or near water. I lived in the Bahamas and Hawaii, where I felt happiest. In summer, I live in my pool.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I suddenly realize how powerful this experience has been in the way I live my life. Whatever I've wanted, I have been able to achieve. I know now that my NDE was the start of it all. I've read many books on the subject and seen movies, which show very different experiences, but mine is similar to childhood NDEs, which do not have a lot of detail. 

  One interesting thing I learned was that when I was taking a HADO Instructor's course with Dr. Masaru Emoto, almost everyone who attended that course had an NDE while drowning. Also, I studied Hawaiian Huna, and its principles are very much in line with my beliefs: 1. The world is what you think it is. 2. There are no limits. 3. Energy flows where attention goes. 4. The moment of power is now. 5. To love is to be happy with. 6. All power comes from within. 7. Effectiveness is the measure of truth.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       What interests me is all the detailed stories. Are those real, or are they based on people's religions or imaginations? Since I saw only a strong light and no people or religious figures, I wonder what is true and what is part of being brainwashed by religion. I wonder how a murderer who had an NDE would experience the afterlife. Have any people who have killed in the name of 'God' shared experiences that might stop others from doing so?      


				  					Experience Description 4285:  					</p>  					My near-death experience at the age of five, when I drowned:

I know that death is not the end of life. I know this because I am one of the lucky people who have had a 'near-death' experience. When I was five years old, I drowned in a tributary of the Danube River in Mosonmagyarovar, Hungary. Like many other children, I was carried away by the rush of springtime water. My mother took her eyes off me only for an instant, and in that instant, my life changed forever.

I was revived shortly after I drowned, but nothing was the same again. Something happened to me that I could not put into words. It was a 'knowing' that challenged my thoughts and beliefs for the rest of my life. I had vague memories of my drowning, but what happened after that defied my knowledge or experience as a child. I carried images and feelings in my heart that I knew were not memories and had very little to do with my physical experience.

I started meditating for long periods of time in a dark place. I lived in Hungary, where many apartments had an inner and an outer door, with a space of about two feet between them. I sat in this space in total silence with my doll. I felt at peace. I craved this familiar peace.

Another place I spent time was in front of a three-way mirror. If I tilted the mirrors at just the right angle, I could see many images of myself, the mirror, and my doll. I imagined the images seeing even more images. I wondered if there was an end to the images of me or an end to me, period. Instinctively, I knew there wasn't. I became obsessed with infinity.

My infinity obsession did not stop in front of the mirror. When I started school, I asked my father to teach me how to multiply. Instead of two times two, however, my numbers were millions and zillions. He thought it was a rather odd request, but I assured him that I wanted to make him proud by getting the best marks in my class.

Although I lived in a communist country, I went to church and had weekly classes in religious education. A priest came to our school, or sometimes we went to a chapel. I loved these sessions because the priest read fascinating stories to us. His instruction was more spiritual than religious. I couldn't get enough!

The priests were part of our community, and we spent a lot of time with them. I challenged a young priest with constant questions, such as how many buckets it would take, to empty the oceans of the world or how many steps I would have to climb on Jacob's Ladder in order to reach Heaven. He, in turn, asked how long it would take me to figure out the mystery of the Holy Trinity. I told him I already knew that one! I knew because I had 'experienced' the answer. I no longer remembered how I knew, but that knowledge became my truth. I knew that I was a very powerful being, that I was a part of God, and that my Spirit would never die. I was Spirit in a human incarnation.

The church was just behind my home and on the way to my grandmother's house. Each day, I went in, whether for mass, benediction, or just to meditate. I loved the smell of incense, the light of the candles, and the peaceful feeling I had when I sat in a pew next to a coffin that contained the remains of a saint. I felt safe there. Another place that brought me peace was the cemetery. I played there almost every day, visiting my baby uncle, aunt, and cousin's graves and carrying on conversations with them. The gravediggers knew me well and were amused by my many questions and insights.

I lived much of my life inside my head and created dreams for myself. I taught myself how to create my life. To this day, I feel at least partly responsible for the Hungarian Revolution. I wanted desperately to come to 'Amerika,' and I put a lot of desire and energy into that dream.

In university, I studied English and philosophy. I found philosophy very disturbing. It asked me to question everything that finally made sense to me. It also recalled a 'knowing' that was buried deep inside. I didn't comprehend what that was because, in those days, what happened to me was not written or talked about. I repressed it consciously, but it kept creeping into my life. For example, the final thesis I wrote for my English degree was called 'The Intersection of Time and Eternity.'

I was almost thirty when I realized that I had had a near-death experience. It was a secret I carried inside me - a secret even from myself. Then one day, I saw a TV program about NDEs, and from then on, I started devouring books on the subject. Suddenly, everything made sense, and nothing did, but I understood why I perceived life in such a different way.

Once I realized that I had 'died,' I knew I could help take the fear from others who were facing this transition challenge. For a number of years, I became a hospice volunteer, helping people deal with their biggest fear - death. I put together prayers, readings, and music that I thought would make the process easier.

Often, when I meditate, the light and warmth comes back to me. I hear a voice telling me that s/he loves me and is always with me.

My NDE is not just a memory. It is something that is a part of who I am. It is a signpost that guides me toward God, but away from religion. I never saw Jesus or any other 'being' on the other side, even though I was a strong Christian at the time. I do, however believe in God because I experienced God as love.

The following poems are descriptive of my drowning. I floated down the river with my eyes open. The sun was shining brightly above the water, and I could see it through the water. I was in horrible pain when the water entered my lungs, and then it felt as if I could breathe water. I remember thinking I must have turned into a mermaid. My body then started speeding up, rushing toward a bright light. I went through a tunnel of sorts, but it was more like a light tunnel. On the other side was a warm, all-encompassing light. I felt a loving presence such as I had never before experienced. I felt comforted and so very happy. It then communicated to me that I had to go back. I was very angry that I had to leave and begged Him/Her to let me stay. The rest is in the poem. To this day, when I have a massage on my back, pain and anger resurfaces, probably from cell memory. My back was pushed and punched to get out the water, but I think the real pain was about being sent away from that incredible experience of love.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



          DROWNING IN THE RIVER

Drowning in the river

Spitting like rain, cold as pain.

Bubbles sparkle my last breaths of air

I flow on and on,

Keeping my gaze on the sun,

As the river carries me along.



My life is flowing in the river.

My peace is flowing in the river.

My joy is flowing in the river.

My love is flowing in the river.

See ME flowing in the river.

Swirling and dancing

under the sun.



Have I become a mermaid?

I'm breathing water now.

Effortless dolphin waves are

splashing against my brow.

Bobbing, lightweight, like a cork,

I flow on and on,

feeling the river run.



Eyes wide open, guided by the Light,

So familiar, so loved, so free.

Far from illusion, heading toward the sea.

I reach a tunnel, the water is gone,

my body no longer in sight.

My spirit soars lightning speed ahead.

Much to my delight,

I am on other side of life!

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



          ON THE OTHER SIDE OF LIFE

With my eyes wide open, I saw the light.

My being was filled with pure delight.

Where am I? What place is this?

It is so bright! So bright!



I melted into a warm embrace - I felt no fear - not even a trace

of regret or sorrow or judgment or pain.

There was only love.

Nothing but love - warm love, overwhelming love, precious love,

expanding, embracing, accepting, nourishing, arms-wide-open BIG HUG LOVE!



Warmth and light covered me like a blanket.

I heard a message in my heart

'My Dear Child!' it said,

'I cherish you and bless you.

You are a beacon, my shining star.

Filled with my light - that's who you are.'



My SELF expanded.

I knew I was in the presence of God.

I breathed His love into my perfect soul.

'I am always with you.'

I heard God's message loud and clear.

And then it was over - I felt a tear.



'Come back to us,' my mother cried.

God's voice was within her, as she tried

to push water from my lifeless lungs.

Urgent hands, slapping, punching at my back...

I breathed. I felt a burning in my chest.

I became aware of pain again.

'Please let me stay,' I begged 'I'm so happy here.'

'Please don't send me away.'

God's love again filled my heart,

and I knew we could never be apart.



In my mother's eyes, I saw the fears,

But I glimpsed God's love behind her tears.

I was only five - my life barely begun.

I had much to do - my time had not come.

I slipped fully back into my body then.

My new life was about to begin.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1951 or 2

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    Other Not sure how long I was under the water or whether I was clinically dead. I drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very alert the whole time, but the experience of being loved on the other side was immense.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was more in my head than actual hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Eyes wide open, guided by the Light,  So familiar, so loved, so free.  Far from illusion, heading toward the sea.  I reach a tunnel, the water is gone,  my body no longer in sight.  My spirit soars lightning speed ahead.  Much to my delight,  I am on other side of life!

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt only a loving being.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   With my eyes wide open, I saw the light.  My being was filled with pure delight.  Where am I? What place is this?  It is so bright! So bright!

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       From my poem:  I melted into a warm embrace - I felt no fear - not even a trace  of regret or sorrow or judgment or pain.  There was only love.  Nothing but love - warm love, overwhelming love, precious love,  expanding, embracing, accepting, nourishing, arms-wide-open BIG HUG LOVE!  Warmth and light covered me like a blanket.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     See box above.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'I am very spiritual, but I no longer belong to a church or religion.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     See box above.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a feeling of infinity, that there was no end to me or to God.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I cannot believe in a conventional fear-based religion because I know that God is total love. This causes some problems with people who believe in fear more than love.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   At the time, I had no words to explain it. I was only five. I had no knowledge about NDEs until much later, so I didn't talk about it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel very comfortable talking about death and have never forgotten or lost the experience. I also am very connected and can manifest what I want most of the time. I am very sure about my beliefs. God sends me messages every day, and I know where they are coming from. I have learned to listen and know the truth.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I didn't learn to swim until I was eighteen, but since then, I crave being near water. It is the place where I feel most peaceful and happy.  When I meditate, I feel the presence of the Being very strongly and often cry from the intense experience.  I have had the Light fill my room once since then and assure me that everything would be okay. I was about to lose my business. Everything turned around in the following week.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Twenty-five years. I did write an essay in College called 'The Intersection of Time and Eternity,' but I had no idea then why.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real, but I didn't know why. I got involved with some weird activities for a five year old. Please read my story.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is not a memory. It is always with me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   No medicine was involved. The experience is always with me and returns when I need reassurance or when I am meditating deeply.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Please read my letter.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It's great.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bobbie_k_nde.html