{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bobbi_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Bobbi P NDE 716","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bobbi P NDE 716  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bobbi P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						240  Bobbi P NDE  716  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in the hospital for three days before I came to realize that I was there. My family told me of things that had happened. My first memory of something different was no color, only gray. I saw a video of my life as if someone had videotaped it. I viewed it and saw many people, places and things from my life starting with things that I knew had happened. It was wonderful. The video was in black and white but other than the video, everything was still gray. I wanted to see color again and when I did, it was fantastic! I saw colors I could never explain. A shade of red that I will never forget. Then visions of things that were so real. The visions of things and people that I could examine. It was so wonderful where I was, I wanted to stay, but knew I had to return.


I have a son who is thirty-six years old and who was born with cerebral palsy and lives with me. We have a strong bond in life. The family said I was so happy and smiled a great deal.


I spent nine days in the hospital and the only long-term effect that is still with me is a blind spot in my right eyesight. This blind spot is hard to describe because there is a nothingness.


When I meet other people that have had a stroke, I ask them about their experiences and none has been like mine. I don't know where I was but I do know that it was a place like my dear beloved father had told me about when I was a child. SUCH WONDERMENT!!!


Thank you. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    March 5,2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack  heart attack and stroke brought on by blood clots that shoot through my body.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was told that I was not expected to walk of the hospital and that I astounded everyone.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert. I wanted to see everything.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Music and sounds of all kinds. I thought I could hear flowers grow and giggle.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See my above answer.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Mostly I was observing things.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     See my above answer.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew I was needed here.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Don't worry about the little things.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Nothingness - I would try and tell what was there but I could not explain nothingness.  Colors that I never saw before, shapes, flora, beautiful objects and a wonderful feeling of contentment.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The feeling that I experienced along with the beauty I saw.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My friends and family know that I am a truthful person in what I tell them, they respect it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bobbi_p_nde.html