{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bobbi_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Bobbi D NDE 4022","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bobbi D NDE 4022  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bobbi D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1936 Bobbi D NDE 4022  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was being pulled, with my back facing in the direction of the pull, and my face facing the earth. I don't recall seeing the earth. It was a knowing that I was leaving it. It was not that I was 'in a tunnel'. It was that a tunnel was created around me due to the incredible speed that I was traveling. I think about it when I see the white marks that a high-speed jet leaves across the sky. The jet created the marks. It is the same. There is no fear whatsoever in this experience, even though at this point, there was an unknowing of what was happening. It was at this time that I realized I had left my body, that I was dead. I didn't care that this had happened. I was peaceful.

The traveling began to slow, and I had a sense that I was arriving somewhere. There were six spirits there, and I could clearly see them, wearing the clothes of their day on earth. Five were males. One was a female. I did not know any of them from this life. I knew instantaneously that they all loved me deeply, unconditionally, and knew me thoroughly. I think of them now as my greeting party who came out to meet me at a designated point. I had no thoughts regarding this at the time. I was peaceful, happy, and free. They engulfed me in unconditional love. Everything there is laid bare. There is no shame, guilt or deceit. It's not possible there. There is total understanding without even experiencing the thought of needing to understand. It is already there - total understanding in perfect clarity. I have to elaborate on this because it is an important difference between our physical reality, and the true, after physical death reality. There, at this place, outside of the physical body, everything that you are, feel, think, believe is clear for anyone to see (feel and understand with perfect clarity). It was not what I did in physical life that mattered most. It was who I was, who I am inside, my soul that was more important than any physical thing I did. In other words, it was only who I really was at the time, in terms of my soul that was most important. That's not to say that all of my life experiences had not significantly contributed to the person I was. They had. The impact of physical actions on the soul cannot be lessened. It's hard to explain. It's as if I might think that I could do bad things or have bad thoughts about others and it would be okay, as long as I remained a beautiful person inside. This is wrong. It does change your soul, and there's nothing one can do to change that. Physical actions weren't as important as the person (me) that those experiences had created. This is what the emphasis is on when viewing another in this dimension.

Now, I couldn't see what the spirits who had greeted me had done in their physical lives. I could see (feel and understand with perfect clarity) who they were inside, just as they could see me clearly.

All of this happens with feelings/thoughts that occur simultaneously at incredible speed. I could see the mouths moving as they were speaking. But, I did not hear the way we hear in the physical world. The element of time, as we know it, in physical life does not exist. For instance, one of the souls who greeted me said to another soul, in a slow, pleading, pausing way, this sentence, 'She's been through so much, and she should be allowed to stay.' In physical terms, this would take fifteen seconds to say, at the speed with which he said it. However, it doesn't take time there. It's instantaneous, even though I know this sounds strange. The feeling of time is realized by an individual in communication. But, time doesn't exist in physical terms. It is the most wonderful language - perfectly clear, perfectly understood, perfectly liberating, and perfectly perfect. I never heard a tone that could identify a specific voice. It's not like that. The tone is there. It's a tone that identifies a specific soul, not something that's physically audible.

Now this is going to be hard for you to comprehend. So, I'm really going to try hard. Everything is happening at once, or overlapping at best. Imagine having a thousand things, and people talking at the exact same moment, and perfectly understanding every detail of all that's going on. I could understand all six souls speaking at the exact same time with perfect clarity, as well as knowing the purest depths of their hearts, and a multitude of other things happening and information that I was privileged to receive, all at the exact same instance. There are no doubts about what is said because of the dynamics of the form of communication (souls laid bare, plus you feel it, and know it's the truth). And I never question it. There's no need to. I know instinctively that it's the true form of communication. I instantly feel I've been freed from all the limitations of physical bondage. You feel that you are finally home, where you belong. Now, I never had a memory that this place was home. It was more of an instinctive and intuitive knowing that this is where I belonged. Doubts don't exist there. They're not possible. Everything is perfectly clear knowledge.

The greatest emphasis of this experience is LOVE. I am so totally engulfed with a love that does not exist in our physical world. No matter how deep a love you feel for your children, it does not compare with this love. This love is the purest, truest, deepest, totally unconditional love that you could EVER imagine. Now, I realize you may be saying 'That's what I feel for my children.' I'd say that too. But, it goes way beyond what these words can describe. And I think this is because it is communicated to you in the form of feelings. It knocks your socks off. When I received this love, it is not comprehended with my mind. It is FELT by the soul. And that immense feeling of this perfect love shoots straight into your heart, as a feeling that you experience. It can bring your soul to its knees, in a sense, with a quick swoosh of sensation. Now, this is not overwhelming in a bad way. It is totally overwhelming in the best way imaginable. Once you have a taste of it, you will forever be changed. It is total bliss. What you've always wanted, and then so much more. I was awestruck that I was so loved. I still am, and I forever will be.

A great light exists that I was compelled to move into. I was not able to. From a distance, I'd liken this light to those seen in a picture of the sun with its rays emanating. The light is shorter in width at its origin, when it is far away, and the rays spread out the further they travel from the source. The closer the light is to you, the wider its point of origin becomes, until it is so close, that its point of origin lights up your entire viewing screen. This light is the source of the 'knock your socks off' love, which is probably why my instinct says 'More please, I'm going there.' Now, that is not to say that I did not feel immense love from the individual souls that I encountered. I did. And the love they held for me was enough to fully saturate any human being for a life time. It's just that when I became aware that there was more love, that was even greater, along with a realization that this source of love was even closer to me, in terms of relation, I wanted it most. It was as though the entity emitting that incredible love for me knew me the best. The love was 'over-the-top' in terms of what a mother or father feels for their child. So, in a sense, I was sort of drawn to my closest relative, even though there was no doubt it was not the type of relative we experience in the physical world. It nevertheless felt more real than any physical relationship. I think of this light now as God. And I'm grateful that this light revealed its love for me in my death experience.

Okay, I'll give you the details of the experience in human terms, although I believe these details are totally insignificant in comparison to the real, and important aspects I have tried to explain.

Upon arriving at the place where the six souls met me, they commenced in loving me, via their thoughts/feelings. I felt free, wonderful. They had an extensive conversation among themselves at the same time that was about me being allowed to stay, where I do not know. But, I was happy to stay right where I was at. There was a deep blue colored, but not dark feeling, universe around them. It was pleasant. There was no land. It was more like they had come to meet me in a place in the universe where there was no land. But, it was not unnatural. Quite the contrary. It felt more natural than earth. It felt right. I can still see their faces clearly in my memories. The consensus among them was that I should be allowed to stay. I was so happy. There was no way I was going back. No way! I had no doubts about that. I had been released from the limited prison of the physical body. My mind was a thousand times sharper, free, and able to operate at full capacity, of which I was unaware prior to my death, was possible. The love was incomparable. I would never go back willingly. At the same time, I viewed a thousand images relating to the universe and simultaneous history. I was not able to comprehend all of them. However, I was granted full comprehension about life, with emphasis on the importance of living life as it is given, and that we are all part of one only. I was not a participant in the conversations that were ongoing about me. I was only an observer. Then the light drew closer, and everyone became aware of it, and their focus shifted to the light.

There was a pause as everyone's attention was on the arriving light. A woman came into view who was completely surrounded in the light (the entire visual screen). However, the other six souls were not surrounded by the light, only her. This is hard to describe. It's as though only when you looked at her, the entire screen of your vision is filled with light. But, when I look at the other souls, they are all surrounded by the blue, pleasant background. The woman, like the other souls, loved me deeply, despite the fact that she had a stern, disciplinarian look on her face. She was dressed in a much older style dress, black, with a matching bonnet. The dress covered every part of her, up to her neck. She was an older woman, with a rugged, weather beaten face. She was staring straight at me with an unbroken stare. The other souls were pleading with her to allow me to say. She said not one word (thought/feeling). But, just continued to stare at me deeply, as if in deep analytical concentration. After the other souls had pleaded to their hearts content, there was a pause. She continued to stare at me, and then said 'She goes back.' My heart dropped to the deepest bottom. I finally spoke for the first time, pleading, 'No, no, please, no.' She was firm. I gave her the heart-felt thought that I would not go. My emotions cried deeply. I would have to be forced. Then I realized that I was hovering above my body. Then next, a nurse was packing ice on my chest, and telling me to wake up. I was naked, no sheet. I looked at my body in disgust. I felt nothing for it. The nurse gently, but aggravatingly poked my left arm twice, while saying 'Wake up'. Next, I felt incredible pain, realizing I was back in my body. My heart dropped. I felt so let down to be back. The nurse realized I had come to. She repeated 'Open your eyes,' several times. Then she started shoving small spoonfuls of ice chips in my mouth, instructing me that my fever was too high, and that I needed to continually eat ice. She kept spooning it in until I passed out.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessSurgery-related  Hospitalized 45 days after death experience. Death experience occurred on third day of hospitalization during surgery.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was dying when I was rushed to the hospital. They put me in surgery three days later when I was not responding to antibiotics. They knew the risk was very high that I could die in surgery. I did. The surgeons (three of them) told me that they didn't think they could resuscitate me - one said it took five minutes. One told my mother my NDE was most likely caused by hallucinations. I knew otherwise. Another told me it could have been real as he had heard similar stories from patients who were resuscitated. I couldn't talk about anything else once I was strong enough to talk. I wanted to share it with everyone.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was at the place where the six souls had come to meet me (after arriving at my destination).

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Already explained, but I'll add. You can see history in past, present and future there. It's simultaneous.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Perfect clarity. Fields were different - one field could apply to one, while another field applied to another, all in the same area. Colors were all extremely pleasing and beautiful. Brightness of the light cannot be described in human words. I have agonized over finding the right words to describe the light. It is very bright, but not harsh to the eyes - it is very pleasing. And it is healing, loving, understanding, amazingly powerful, and good. Brightness was only deficient in the travel phase. It was better than earth at the arrival point. There are some souls that appear as wispy, cloud-like entities. They take the form of a small ball when they are far away. But, still swirling, leaving a hole in the middle when the ball begins to disperse, then swirls in a circular motion. The ball becomes larger the closer it gets to you. Then when it begins to disperse (with the hole in the middle), the outline takes a human head shape, but eventually disengages to swirl. The process keeps repeating itself, as the soul draws closer to you. Then there are colors, blue that first appears in the swirling stage. You can see 'movies' of a sort in these blue areas. The blue areas also turn green. There are also souls who appear in their previous human forms, perfectly clear in every aspect, including clothing. You can understand these ones with perfect clarity. I saw no objects.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Already described. Although you can hear, it is not audible in human terms. It is audible with feelings, mind, and senses. It is perfect in clarity, understanding, and source of origin. You can sense whether the individual is speaking slowly, etc. but, there is no time. You can feel pitch, loudness. But, it is not heard in human terms. It is perfect communication.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I created the tunnel by the incredible speed I was traveling. I could see streaks of lines in a tunnel-like shape all around me that were trailing behind me. I was creating these streaks and the tunnel from my speed. It's like causing particles to move as you zip through them. It's hard to explain. I bet it can be scientifically explained. I just have no clue how to explain it. Maybe when something is traveling that fast it forces particles to move to its sides surrounding it.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Already explained. Some were previously humans. Others were unidentifiable (cloudlike). They were all very much alive.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   No doubt. And the woman who was totally engulfed in the strongest part of the light that I could see, had the authority to decide my fate.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The dimension I was in was definitely not of the world. I learned there are at least two other dimensions (the one I was in, and the one the woman in the light came from). There is no time in these dimensions. Communication is the purest and best outside of the earth. Love rules outside of the earth.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total bliss, love, happiness, ecstasy, peace, comfort. Think of every positive state you can imagine, and then multiply it by one thousand.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned a lot. We are all part of one. We should relish life, all life. You don't die. You are freed after physical death occurs. I'm not afraid of death, but I have a thorough understanding of the need to live life. I have a greater respect for life. I am capable of incredible depth, comprehension, understanding, love. Don't hurt others - they are part of the same One you are. Don't judge - seek understanding and help others. I have psychic abilities - everyone does, but these must be used with caution, guidance and care. I can acquire a state of partial bliss, and after death, it gets better. I can make myself happy through spiritual practice. There is SO MUCH MORE TO LIFE THAN MEETS THE EYE.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I became much more intuitive, and gained a spiritual ability that I previously did not have. However, although there have been many significant accuracies in my awareness, I have also had some significant inaccuracies. It has taken me a lifetime to realize that I must keep myself in a highly spiritual and love-focused state to avoid inaccuracies. Given the time constraints of my life, this is not always easy to do. It is definitely a virtue of the highest order.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The boundary was not physical, but it was there. I was not allowed to go further. If I could have crossed the boundary, or just remained where I was, I would have been immensely grateful.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'none - raised by Atheists. There was no ''NONE'' box to check'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became a believer in God, and I pursued a close, spiritual relationship with God and much later, with Jesus.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Deeply spiritual, faith in god, daily prayers and meditation. I do not believe that there is only one right religion. I believe that there are many good ways to develop well-being (bliss) through love-based spiritual (psychic) relationships. Also Jesus, although I never believed in him as being any more than a highly spiritual man, is my spiritual teacher and friend, by chance. I never prayed to him until one day when he came to me in meditation. I was shocked, awestruck, and have grown to love and rely on him for spiritual guidance and development.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became a believer in God, and I pursued a close, spiritual relationship with God and much later, with Jesus.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Already explained. I'll add the order is perfect. I believe universal order can be measured scientifically, and will be. I think souls can be proven to exist once energy studies related to them are developed and conducted in depth, with tools, over time, and these studies are done cooperatively with physics studies. I did not get answers as to my purpose. I believe that we are all evolving into higher spiritual beings, serving a purpose (the lights purpose). I ponder what that purpose may be.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It's hard to live in a callous world with closed-minded individuals. I know that there is so much more to life. Yet, I have spent most of my life surrounded by those who could never comprehend or believe anything outside of their physical existence. I have impatience at times with these individuals that I must work at subduing. I do not express my ideas in regards to my NDE. I struggle to find other methods of opening minds without touching on the psychic or religious subjects. I am drawn to open-minded, good-hearted people, and I have formed my closest, deepest relationships with them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Our vocabulary is only meant for physical life. It has always been a struggle for me to explain to the very few I could trust about my experience. But, although it requires a very lengthy conversation, focusing on each individual issue in depth to explain, it generates deep personal excitement and enthusiasm to be able to discuss it with someone trusted, as in doing so, I'm sharing the most important and wonderful knowledge anyone can gain.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Psychic development and spiritual development (they coexist).

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        LOVE, LOVE, LOVE - and this is not the real life. We are not meant to live without spirituality. It is part of who we are.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it immediately upon regaining the strength to talk. Reactions vary by individual. My father, who had admitted to me later that he experienced a NDE as a child, had only gone as far as his bedroom ceiling, still believed that life ended with the physical body. My mother was convinced I had hallucinated due to illness, and anesthesia. One spouse who loved me deeply drew closer to God worship during our years together. And a friend found it reassuring after her brother died. I am very cautious who I tell, and learned this shortly after my experience when I blabbed it to the world, naively.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   None whatsoever. And it was sometime in my mid-twenties when I found a book at the book store 'Life after Life'. It was so reconfirming to me to know there were others out there like me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I never doubted its authenticity. My parents tried to make me doubt it. But, it never could have been done. The experience was the most real, vivid experience I've ever had in my life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Already explained.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is my hope that this study will lead to furthering the advancement and knowledge of spiritual realities. It is with this hope that I have participated.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bobbi_d_nde.html