{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bob_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Bob W Probable NDE 4924","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bob W Probable NDE 4924  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bob W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2525 Bob W Probable NDE 4924  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As mentioned above at the point of blockage I ceased to breathe. I found myself on the ceiling looking down at a body on a bed. There was a red affect around this body. I was in a profound state of peace and contentment. There was a white light around or near me but I did not stay there very long. Suddenly I was back in my bed awake and conscious of a bed full of prominently claret dominated vomit and the walls and floor decorated in the same unwelcome red detritus. Everything was red! I slowly put it all together. I must have choked and died. Despite the onerous task, at some ridiculous early morning hour, I cleaned up the room in a state of wonderment.

I 'knew' that I had died and that death was not at all like the 'religious dominated dogma' and had no fear attached to it. I realized what the red hue was that I saw around the body and that I was the body. I wanted to explain it to all my mates but thought about the odds of them believing me at the pub next day. I was excited but realized that my story would be embellished by pink elephants and etc. if I told it to my friends. So, I held my peace. I was not to know that some years later in 1999, I would start having more profound experiences.  I watched my eleven-year-old son die in my arms, my youngest brother die a few weeks later from an accident, and my wife took my thirteen-year-old daughter and vanished. I was able to recall my previous experience and start the process of coming to understand how to survive.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  approx.  1969

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Returned home from a heavy night drinking. Usually drank beer only but got into drinking wine as well at the same pace as beer  Other: Choked on vomit due to inebriation and I had passed out  I was choking on my own vomit in a non-conscious state. I had passed out from an excessive alcohol intake. I had started to vomit and was swallowing it in my 'sleep'. At some point, I had choked on it and ceased to breathe. Without disgorging the blockage I have no doubt that I would have died as do others each year from the same cause.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was on the ceiling looking down and covered in light and peace. Just before I returned.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Whilst it did not last long I could see the entire room in one scene.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Audio was not part of it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Around me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and contentment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have nothing whatsoever to do with organized religion. However, I happily accept all and attend none. The word spiritual has a real danger of becoming another religion. I know we are all spiritual beings and love and forgiveness are the key issues to a functional life.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Brought up Methodist but have  no religious affiliation now

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have nothing whatsoever to do with organized religion. However, I happily accept all and attend none. The word spiritual has a real danger of becoming another religion. I know we are all spiritual beings and love and forgiveness are the key issues to a functional life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Not then but definitely much later.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Dramatically since 1999.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Many but much later. Healing with my hands which burn in the presence of a person who has a need, prescience, acute awareness of truthfulness in people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That death is not the mumbo jumbo of punishment and fear based dogma spread by religion.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Thirty years. Polite acknowledgement, disbelief and many who accept it to be true. Others shared that they had NDEs at a deeper level than my OBE. It allowed them to validate their experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As truth never faltered in this knowledge.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Research confirms the events of my life and are incontrovertibly true. I have no fear of death and thus really enjoy living. I have a strong sense of balance or perspective which confirms that we really worry about minor issues in our lives.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am very glad that science is validating this area. It helps those with eyes to see and those with cynical cataracts.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bob_w_probable_nde.html