{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bob_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Bob M NDE 2466","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bob M NDE 2466  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bob M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						759  Bob M NDE  2466  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

We were returning from a yacht race. I turned the helm over to one of my crewmen so that I could get close to another yacht to get one of my crew members back that I loaned to it because it was shorthanded. A strong gust of wind caught the mainsail, causing the boom to suddenly swing around and hit the back of my head cutting it wide open and almost shattering my skull.

Never knew what happened until later. One moment. I was watching the other yacht. Felt a blackness and brief pain. The next moment, I was hovering in the air in old Holland, admiring beautiful well-kept lawns and flower beds arranged in beautiful geometric form. The water was light blue. I was also impressed by the large pink windmills. Felt a tremendous sense of peace. For some strange reason, my name was Hans. Could not remember the last name. It had a Germanic sound to it. This went on for a few minutes. A little later, I heard my name being called. 'Bob, come back'!! Who is Bob? My name is Hans. I felt a pull, and got a little irritated because I did not want to leave this beautiful place.

As soon as I regained consciousness, I was in severe pain and bleeding badly because my skull was cut wide open. Lucky for me, one of the crew members was also an Emergency Room doctor. He also had a well stock first kit that he carried on his yacht. They finally brought me back. I kept bouncing back and forth between this reality, and the world that Hans was living in. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 1995  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes       Direct head injury    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I was hit on the back of the head by the boom of my yacht during a race. It almost shattered my skull.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Colors were more vivid. Hearing was perfect. Could hear everything including peoples' thoughts.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was Hans.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All of the colors were very vivid soft pastels. I felt like I finally came home.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Super clear. I am slightly hard of hearing. During that time, I could hear everything. Super hearing would be a better term.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Ancient Holland.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme peaceful happiness. Was extremely disappointed about being pulled away from it.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I use to have a lot of spontaneous out of body experiences in my early youth. Most of them were around age ten.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I talked to a lot of people. Two of them were psychics. They felt that the incarnation of Bob was shut down by the sudden trauma and temporarily transferred to one being run by his over-soul on another time track.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     IT was more real than this reality.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bob_m_nde.html