{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bo_fde.html","mytitle":"Bo FDE 4221","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bo FDE 4221  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bo FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			2065 Bo FDE 4221  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During a recess at the village's school my whole class went down to the small river and out on the new ice near the school. Being a risky person as I was I would of course go too far out on the ice and to the part of the small river where the water was rapid current. In the middle of the current, the ice broke and I ended up in the cold water. All my friends except one ran up to the school and told the teacher, who also happened to be my mother, that Bo was drowning. The boy that stayed on was my best friend and he crawled out on the ice to the ice hole.

I had of course no rescue equipment but instead boots and heavy clothes, that quickly was filled with water and began to pull me down under the ice. At this moment, my life started to replay like a movie, and view it for me until this very day. As the time went by I began to sink deeper and deeper, and when my friend, who was holding my hand, hoping to pulling me up, started to glide towards the ice hole and fall into the current water I told him: 'Let go of me, it's better that one of us is drowning than the both of us.' At this moment, I only had my head and one arm above the surface of the water. Then something happened, that was beyond all human capacity, and suddenly we were both lying on firm ice and soon after that, we could get ashore. My friend told me later that I suddenly was as light as his younger brother. My cry for help had reached a few workers at the sawmill nearby and they tried to rescue me by boat. This attempt had failed because the boat was chained.

Back to the moment of rescuing. In that moment of distress, when every possibility of being saved was gone and I had taken farewell to my friend, the hand of salvation came to us from above. An angel to the rescue. Neither I, my rescuing friend nor people that I know had been able to find any other explanation to the rescue.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  OCTOBER 1946
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    INPULSHANDLING  Other SINNESUPPLEVELSER INFÖR DRUKNINGSDÖDEN  Threat of drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was awake all the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was awake all the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear of dying.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     A film about my existing life.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My belief is that God's help must exist I some way.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My belief is that God's help must exist I some way.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My belief is that God's help must exist I some way.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     That a spiritual force along with my rescuing friend contributing to the happy end.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was difficult to sleep afterwards, and I got red rashes on my arms and legs. A man who drowned the next winter in the village showed similar symptoms.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     That my hope for rescue in the ice hole was physically all gone. All the odds were against that. Despite my friend's heroic effort to rescue me and my farewell to life I ended up on solid ground again and a continued life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       To all the people that want to avoid the death of drowning: Learn how to swim! Take it easy, don't panic.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I have written this without any proof-reading so some parts of the text can surely be rewritten. But the main contents are following my experience and the event totally.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bo_fde.html