{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1blanca_n_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Blanca N Probable NDE 6418","mylang":"de"}
          	        Blanca N Probable NDE 6418  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Blanca N Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3152 Blanca N Probable NDE 6418  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The previous night, I had decided to commit suicide. When I got to school, I went and bought the pills. I went off by myself and swallowed them. After a while, I began to feel dizzy and nauseous. Soon I was aware that my legs were getting very weak and I then I fell down. 

At that moment, I seemed to enter a dark and silent place, full of peace. Then I began to see images of my life, starting with the first day I went out walking with my present partner, then going backwards to times in my childhood. There were so many times of happiness!  I kept watching as my life kept going backwards. 

For me this felt like a short time, but when I woke up, several hours had passed. I thought about this experience a lot, and I learned from it that good times have greater weight than bad ones. Now I believe in God with all my heart and I'm so grateful for this new opportunity in my life. I don't regret what I did, because that is what brought me to know my God.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  20 de octubre de 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt. Drug or medication overdose    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I swallowed pills in a suicide attempt.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious and alert to all the images I saw.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     It seemed slow, but when I woke up several hours had gone by.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Images looked brilliant, more colorful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal. I heard nothing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I saw myself going for a walk with my present partner, and falling down at school with a friend, or pinching a cigarette from my grandfather. They were all real things that had happened.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt happiness, peace and tranquility.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I trust in and speak with God every night.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in God like never before and I'm intent on keeping his laws.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Si. Porque senti una paz increible. No vi a dios pero lo senti.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   That there may be bad times, but the good ones are more frequent.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Si. Senti que hay que vivir porque la vida trata da vivir cosas buenas. Es dificil de explicar...

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Si, que hay momentos malos pero los buenos son más.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     My change was for the better. I love God like never before. Speaking of Him makes me emotional û I feel his presence even when I see a butterfly flutter past. I am intent on serving Him, following His laws in order to be able to again feel the peace I felt during my experience. Once and for all, I love life!  Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I try to treat my neighbor as God commands.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because I knew that I was there, but at the same time it was as if my body was absent, like being in a dark place with nothing underfoot.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Es un momento que recuerdo con emoción como si hubiera sido ayer l   o recuerdo mejor que cualquiera cosa.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I saw all the good times in my life. Life is beautiful and we don't need to worry so much.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Four months later. They thought I was crazy. After that, I didn't say anything about it to anybody.  Once I allowed God to enter my heart and I understood, then I could speak about it.  Now I talk to people about it with great feeling.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because the images I saw were real ones.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The things I saw were real events from my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I felt an incredible peace. I did not see God, but I felt Him. It is a time I recall with emotion as if it were yesterday; I remember it better than anything else.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1blanca_n_probable_nde.html