{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1blaine_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Blaine S NDE 7503","mylang":"de"}
          	        Blaine S NDE 7503  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Blaine S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3831 Blaine S NDE 7503  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During recovery from cancer surgery, I was lying in my hospital bed. I began to feel very shaky and weak. My mom was sitting next to my bed and I asked her if I was going to die. She said, 'No.' I began to hear a very mechanical sound, like a weird, whooshing, mechanical wave-type sound. I had a respiratory arrest. They ran a code blue. I was gone.

I perceived myself in a room, like some kind of control room. There was a bunch of people waiting for me. There were many, many people. The focus of all these people seemed to be on me. Some female being ran in and said to a male being that it was not right and it was not my time. There were two females sitting next to me. I call them angels. I asked them what was going on but they only looked at me and smiled. It was the kind of smile that a mother gives an infant. They told me, in a telepathic way, that there was no possible way that I would be able to understand what was happening but to not be afraid. After the male and female discussed my time not being right, I was sent back to my body. 

I woke up gradually to see the room full of doctors working on me and my mom was crying. I am still very afraid of death. I have cancer and will die soon but it still scares me, even after this event.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a respiratory arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the whole event. It was the same.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard very strange sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     More like a tunnel of sound.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I am not sure who all the people were.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion. I really wanted to know what was going on and who all these people were.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     It seemed like I was in some kind of screening room where the final decision is made as to whether to continue or not.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The way I pray changed. I don't ask for things. I just close my eyes and try to imagine myself in God's care.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in angels that are with each person. Guardian angels you might call them.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I saw alot of people that seemed to be waiting to greet me. I do not know who they were though.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I felt like there were beings that where of a higher nature that reported to soemthing higher than them. Probably God.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I ended up feeling like there is so much that we do not understand and are not capable of understanding. The analogy I use is it is kind of like trying to teach an infant algebra.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     It seemed like there where many other people waiting to greet me that had already crossed over. A decision was made as to whether it was my "correct" time to join them. There were two angels beside me that sometimes I beleive are still with me in my life. Probably my guardian angles so to speak.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt like the two angels I saw loved me unconditionally. They looked at me with the love that you see a mother look at an infant.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life. I have become closer to God. I believe in angels.     Slight changes in my life. I have become closer to God. I believe in angels.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to be more compassionate with people. It changed the way that I pray. I do not ask for things when I pray. I just try to be with God.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Some of it is hard to explain, such as the sound I heard. It is hard to compare it or put into words because I have never heard anything like it before. Much of the communication was non-verbal so it is hard to describe that as well.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The angels. I really felt like they loved me and watched over me and made me not afraid.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Maybe two months. They reacted differently depending on the person. I wish someone could put this whole experience into some kind of perspective for me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of them but my experience was not like what I had heard about, at all.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was very real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was very real and I still feel that way.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It bothers me and I am still very, very afraid of dying and I don't really know why.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1blaine_s_nde.html