{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1billy_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Billy D NDE 136","mylang":"de"}
          	        Billy D NDE 136  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Billy D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						579  Billy D NDE  136  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  				  I was in the hospital having Ureteroscopic surgery (kidney stone removal) and was given a general anesthetic.  Sometime during the operation, I awoke.  However, while I could hear, I could not open my eyes or move.  In fact, I felt quite different - kind of like a ball.  It was dark and void.  The only senses I was aware of were sound and a sense of being a small ball surrounding my intelligence.  I was very conscious and could hear doctors and nurses talking.  I knew I was suffering from pulmonary aspiration, and this was later verified.


I believe this was the first stage in an NDE.  And while I never left my body, I definitely had a disconnecting-from-the-body experience.  I call it ‘my in-body experience.’

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes        
Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very conscious, I could hear doctors and nurses talking.  I knew I was suffering from pulmonary aspiration, and this was later verified.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Just wondered what was happening.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

----------

Experience reported 3-1/2 years later 

                       I was in the hospital having Ureteroscopic surgery (kidney stone removal) and was given a general anesthetic.  Sometime during the operation, I awoke.  However, while I could hear, I could not open my eyes or move.  In fact, I felt quite different - kind of like a ball.  It was dark and void.  The only senses I was aware of were sound and a sense of being a small ball surrounding my intelligence.  I was very conscious and could hear doctors and nurses talking.  I knew I was suffering from pulmonary aspiration, and this was later verified.


I believe this was the first stage in a near death experience.  And while I never left my body, I definitely had a disconnecting-from-the-body experience. I call it ‘my in-body experience.’

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No


                       Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very conscious. I could hear doctors and nurses talking.  I knew I was suffering from pulmonary aspiration, and this was later verified.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I was just wondering what was happening.

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion: 

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No  It simply reinforced my religious beliefs.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1billy_d_nde.html