{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1billie_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Billie S NDE 6268","mylang":"de"}
          	        Billie S NDE 6268  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Billie S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Second-Person NDE  			3031 Billie S NDE 6268  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This is my 2 or 3 year-old words (my daughter was the one that 'died'): 'Mommy I was in that place.' She drew a drawing: totally colored black except for floating figures near the top of the page. There was a small building shaped object in the left upper corner. She said she was trying to get home and there were angels around her.  She was still in the hospital at the time following the unsuccessful surgery. 

The medical team was keeping her there in case of any other problems. I read the medical report after her doctor was called out of the room; it didn't make too much sense. The report stated that she had turned blue and had to be resuscitated.  That she was under great stress and the operation was halted.  She never did get the ear tubes inserted into both ears; just one was inserted.  I am her mom aged 69 years.

I was so alarmed at her repeating that the angels had come to get her that I signed her out of the hospital myself. The hospital told me that it was against all policies and that if I took her home I was on my own. She was put into my bed, she said, 'keep that boy away from me'.  She slept solidly for two days.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  around 1974 or earlier

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Allergic reaction. CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Medical records stated that she (my daughter) had a bad reaction to the anesthetic, stopped breathing and turned blue.  Surgery was stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       She only spoke of seeing angels and wanting to go home.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     She remembered a great deal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    She didn't speak of hearing anything, remember she was in the hospital for hearing problems.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     She spoke of a dark place.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       She was distressed after the fact.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     She didn't say.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     She attends church every Sunday.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     she must have had a concept of ANGELs

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     She attends church every Sunday.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     she spoke of flying angels who had come to get her

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   She spoke of flying angels who had come to get her.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   We haven't discussed this.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   My daughter painted a picture, very alarming totally black with white wispy areas.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     She's extremely bright, became a doctor at age 25, top in her high school graduating classes (99.05 %). After the incident, she spoke of being here before, of having 12 children and being on the FLOWER boat She showed me a picture of the Mayflower.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        She must have had a concept of ANGELS.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     She remembers the hospital and of being very sick.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   She hasn't discussed this.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       She talked about being here before; a psychic did say that she was an old, old soul.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Could you word them so that a parent could report a child's experience of these events? I had forgotten my daughter's experience but had read some NDE accounts and then I recalled what had happened to her over 37 years ago.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1billie_s_nde.html