{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bill_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Bill V NDE 97","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bill V NDE 97  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Bill V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						506  Bill V NDE  97  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 Travelling in a Toyota pick-up, I was struck from the rear by a 1974 Chevrolet Caprice Classic at 65mph. The accident had broken my seat loose and I was trapped in the seat belt. My head had been banged around and I had numerous head injuries that resulted from being tossed around while the truck was folded up similar to an accordion. I never recovered consciousness at the scene of the accident completely because it seemed more like a dream than anything else did. Later, as I relived the experience itself, things started to make sense.


However, when it happened, I experienced the feeling of total relaxation and a sort of disembodiment. I was at, for lack of a better word, a “junction”. I was not in human form. I was pure energy and I was drawn to a huge white and golden light that seemed to encompass the whole universe. As I was at this junction, I felt a drawing sensation that seemed to be like this: imagine throwing an egg on your ceiling and it has a very thin strip of egg white that stretches from your ceiling to the floor. My body was the floor and the "other" place was the ceiling. I was connected to both. As I touched the place where I saw the other universe, it began to draw me towards it and as it did, it was like an experience of an “Eye Of The Storm” electrical device. This device has a static electric field that when you touch the glass, the static electricity is drawn to your fingers. So similarly, as the strands of electricity touched me, I felt instantly as if I knew everything, experienced the whole of creation. No heaven like what the Christian philosophy or any other religion states, no hell, just the purity of the universe as a whole. The energy there was not only "human" in nature, all of the life here on earth was there that had been past and present, which to me, explained the concepts of human reproduction and the feelings that some people get about reincarnation. This was, to me, the essence of human, animal, and even plant life.


I also felt I was completely pain-free. When the paramedics used the defibrillators on me, I felt the first shock as extremely mild; however, the last one (that brought me to full confused consciousness) was very painful. As the paramedics, and this is purely conjecture, applied the defibrillator to my heart, the connection between the other place and the world began to break down and I was drawn back to my own body. At first, I was angry, but then I began to understand why I came back: it was simply not my time. I had tasted death and no longer had any fear of it, but then it hit me that I should now try to experience life, which is the real mystery.


As I was drawn back to my body, I began to forget all that I had experienced and I always felt this was due to my brain not being able to handle all that I had experienced, but I did remember the fundamentals of what I had experienced. I felt that there had been an exchange of understandings that I will never forget and what I believe in now is truth in its purest form and universally simple. Life is the mystery and death is but a step towards another form of existence. There was only a calm (that I posses now) that allows me to see the world and all the life in it as a joy, not some psychic or religious phenomenon. A professor that I am now doing a contract study with says that he believes I touched the heart of creation. Maybe he's right, but for now, I feel like my life has renewed and opened perspectives that allow me to see life as a gift and a blessing.


When I was later released from the hospital, a Catholic priest contacted me.  I wanted an accounting of what I had experienced and when it was not what he wanted me to tell him, he got upset and warned me not to tell other people about what had happened to me because it was against his belief of what God was. I know there is a Spirit, but it's neither male nor female; it just is, and that's the simplicity of it all. He said that I just experienced “loose electrical energy scrambling around my brain” and that if I prayed to God and asked him to enter my life and show me his true purpose that I would be "saved". I told him that I felt that his religion was preaching a lie to the mass public and that what I had experienced was the truth about life and its beginnings.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    December 22, 1987

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death dead for six minutes and 35 secondsI was completely dead, no vital signs of any kind, yet I could sense everything all at once.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Moderate

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I felt that I was still in my body, yet between both realms.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      As above.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time is a man-made concept, not part of the universal continuum. There was simply no time where I was and it didn't exist.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Everything and yet, it was easy to distinguish distinct properties within my expanded consciousness. I could "feel" everything as well.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     It was more like being linked to two different junctions at the same time.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     As outlined above.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was a sort of golden light that was enveloping a pure white light that was connected to all the strands of energy within the system.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As outlined.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Total peace, relaxation, wonder, and awe.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     As I have stated earlier, there was a sort of exchange of "knowing".

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     The boundary junction is the only link I felt or sensed at the time of my accident.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Caucasian   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I seemed to develop a special knowledge that was a direct result of a probable exchange of energy.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   It wasn't hard to express but it was hard to find the words to describe the actual experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I seemed to be able to read people much better, some people felt as if I "knew" more about them after first meeting them than they wanted me to know.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: Seeing what I saw and experiencing it. Worst: not being able to allow others to experience what I experienced.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Every time I can. I use it to help people who feel that life is not worth living because it is the most precious gift nature ever bestowed on us.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Meditation is the only source that even remotely brings me close to it. I do not partake of any drugs other than what is prescribed to me by a licensed physician.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Life is for living, humankind is the only species that feels god-like because of total misconceptions about Illusionary dominion in regards to our place in the scheme of things. Our laws are not coinciding with natural laws that we can't even begin to understand, and besides that, the unknown is not frightening, it's a wonderful mystery that eventually we all will understand and be a part of.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bill_v_nde.html