{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bill_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Bill S NDEs 6294","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bill S NDEs 6294  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bill S NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			3056 Bill S NDEs 6294  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I'm an old man. I have lived a long life and have seen many things. I have had three NDE experiences. The first NDE: I was a teenager. I took a prescribed medicine. I had an allergic reaction. My gums turned black with little white blisters. My temperature was 105. 

As I was looking at myself in the mirror I left my body. I was on the ceiling looking down at myself. All I could see was my backside. But at the time, I didn't realize it was me and my body. I was on the ceiling for what seemed like 20 minutes. Then the thought came to me ‘Is that me’? Then, like being shot from a cannon I was back in my body. I found myself in the emergency room within minutes. 

The next NDE was when I was on a baseball field in a night game. I was hit by a baseball. My skull was crushed by the force of the impact. As I was lying in the dirt, others were trying to control the bleeding and keep me breathing. A messenger told me that I had to move. This message was repeated to me three times. I told the messenger that I didn't want to move, each time. But finally, I did agree to move. I somehow found myself lying in what seemed to be grass. I was no longer anywhere near the baseball field. It seemed to be a long way away. I was there for what seemed like a very long time. Then the messenger said to me, ‘You can return now’.  Then suddenly I was back in the dirt at third base. The ambulance had just arrived. 

The last NDE was when I contracted Spinal Meningitis. I was in the hospital in isolation; I think it was the third day. I looked at the door and my best friend came into the room. No one had seen him in a very long time. He died at age 19 in Vietnam. He was 5th Marines, H Company on patrol March 2, 1967 and on point. He walked into an ambush. He was blown away. But when he came to me he looked beautiful. All of his face and head were there. All of the bullet holes were gone. I just jumped out of my bed. Although in that instant, I didn't realize I had left my body in the bed. A voice from the corner of the room said to me, ‘He is your friend and will tell you no lies.’ I quickly turned to see the person that just talked to me. I saw no one. In that same instant all the pain left my body and was replaced by a feeling that was so wonderful, it cannot be described! 

But the message was ‘No Lies’. What did that mean to me? I thought, ‘Ask Questions’. So I did! Without the time to contemplate what sort of questions might be asked to a friend from the other side, I started asking questions. And as fast as I asked he answered. I liked the answers to all but one question. Then he put his hand in my face as if to say ‘Enough questions!’ Then he said, ‘I came to ask for your permission to be the one to come collect you.’ I knew what he meant, so I said, ‘Yes!  Let's go’. He was surprised at my remark. He looked a bit flustered. Then he regained his composure and said ‘I don't know if this is the right time. If it is I'll return.’ Then he turned and left me. 

I walked back to my bed and saw my body under the covers. I just climbed back into bed and re-entered my body. I said ‘Let's Go’ because I knew that if I went with him the marvelous feeling, that replaced the pain, I could keep. It was so wonderful that I was willing to give up everything and die. So is there a God and are there angels? Yes. I would describe the wonderful feeling as a profound feeling of ‘Acceptance, Love and Peace’. These words are the best I can use. I'm sorry my words are so weak. Forgive me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1964

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Acciden. tIllness. Allergic reaction. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seemed be much more aware than at any time in my life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the very beginning.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the experience my vision was much more acute.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    During the experience my hearing was much more acute.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, Joy, Happiness, Peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Mormon

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Mormon

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered my best friend who died in combat in Vietnam.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I asked Richard 4 questions. He gave me the answers. But others wouldn't like the answers. They will only ridicule me. So to protect myself I'm withholding this information. It is too sacred

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I asked Richard 4 questions. He gave me the answers. But others wouldn't like the answers. They will only ridicule me. So to protect myself I'm withholding this information. It is too sacred

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I asked Richard 4 questions. He gave me the answers. But others wouldn't like the answers. They will only ridicule me. So to protect myself I'm withholding this information. It is too sacred

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   God loves me. I asked Richard 4 questions. He gave me the answers. But others wouldn't like the answers. They will only ridicule me. So to protect myself I'm withholding this information. It is too sacred.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Richard my visitor that came to me had died in combat at age 19.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Yes God loves me.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no words in any language to use to tell of the powerful feeling that I felt.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   They opened a window in my mind and is unforgettable.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I could actually feel other’s pains and illnesses as they were describing them to me. It was not good. It was very distressing. So I prayed for that to be removed from me and it was.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        They opened a window in my mind and is unforgettable.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told no one, initially, for fear of being viewed as being crazy. I told no one for many years.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     In the course of creating something original you draw from your own experience. Your parts and pieces, feelings, emotions are going to be factored into your creation. But these experiences were beyond my understanding and my ability to describe in words. If I challenged you to imagine a feeling that you would not hesitate to die, in that moment, what would you imagine? This was not a product of my imagination. It was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bill_s_nde.html