{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1william_d_ste.html","mytitle":"Bill D STE 9615","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bill D STE 9615  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					William D STE  					  					  						Home  						Classification STE  						5180 Bill D STE 9615  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I WANT TO START WITH 'THE FRUITS' OF MY EXPERIENCE:

  I and my wife organized a global meditation event that a Princeton University born Global Consciousness Research Project discovered had INCREASED COHERENCE IN GLOBAL CONSCIOUSNESS. I am a simple Kansas farm town son of 2 poor Okies, and I have no college degree.  YET, I am now since this event an award winning author of 6 books on the power of human consciousness, and 24 years ago I founded a global Mind Body event now celebrated annually in over 85 countries. It is called World Tai Chi Day, and it has been officially proclaimed by government bodies worldwide, including; over 25 U.S. Governors, Senates & Legislatures, including California, Puerto Rico, New York, National Congress of Brazil, etc. It has reached one billion potential mass media viewers/readers/listeners via coverage by CNN, BBC, FOX News, Associated Press, Agence France Presse TV, South China Morning Post, China's CGTN Network and China's Xinhua News Agency, and national media in many nations. www.WorldTaiChiDay.org

  TODAY, I am the Founder of THE GLOBAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT, a global coalition of leaders in Science, Education, Health, and Mind Body campaigning for a United Nations Resolution advocating 'Mind Body Education for Public Education worldwide.'  The event's motto is 'Time to USE SCIENCE in Public Education.'  At www.GlobalTransformationProject.org we provide the science showing that Mind Body Education in Public Education would heal the world on many levels, while saving society trillions of dollars annually year after year after year. Supporters include researchers and professors from Harvard, Princeton University, University of California, University of New South Wales, Australia, etc. etc. ... and remember I have NO COLLEGE DEGREE, from a poor midwestern family.  THE EXPERIENCE THAT LAUNCHED ALL THIS:

  When I was in my late 20s, after suffering the loss of my Mother, Father, and Youngest Son in a 18 month period ... I was lost, drinking a lot, etc.  Then eventually I had an epiphany and just knew I didn't want to go out like this.

  I started jogging, meditating, doing yoga, tai chi, and immersing myself in nature, spending hours and hours at the ocean.

  One night not long after all the above began, I got down on my knees by my bed and asked, 'Why are we here? I NEED to know why we are here! I just don't get it.'  Then I lay down in bed and started meditating at around 10 P.M.

  At 3 A.M. exactly, I woke up and found myself out of bed, sitting on the edge of the bottom of my bed ... and a voice came to me, and said (in my mind), 'I am about to show you what life COULD be like.'

  Then it touched me in the center of my heart and the center of my brain and an 'expansion' occurred. As these lights expanded I expanded with them. I saw the ceiling of my bedroom rushing at me, then the attic slats, then I was looking down seeing the roof of my home shrinking, then California, then Earth shrinking behind me.

  I was connected to EVERYTHING ... the love was universal, and limitless, and without any conditions at all. I saw that everyone on the planet is going through the same things, same doubts, fears, hopes, loves. And I saw/felt the reality that love is the fabric of all existence. I have written 6 books trying to describe and understand what all happened in those moments. But, at a point I became afraid, wondering, 'Am I dying? Is this what it's like to die?' When fear entered my mind the wondrous expansion and awakening all fell into reverse ... and I SLAMMED back into my body gasping for air from the overwhelming experience ... but, the last message from this being was, 'Fear closes all doors. Fear closes all doors. Fear closes all doors.' 3 times just like this.  I stumbled out of my bedroom in a silken state of wonder and gentle shock I guess is the best way to put it ... not having any idea what to do, knowing there would be no sleep tonight. My eyes saw a pen and paper, and the voice whispered in my mind, 'WRITE!'

  I had never been a writer, never had desire to be a writer, but I sat down ... and began writing. This became an obsession, I had to record all the things spinning through my mind and expanding through my heart ... or I felt like I would burst from it, the feelings and insights were so big. I wrote at home, I wrote at work, I wrote everywhere.

  This went on for months until one day on the smoggy freeway driving home, I decided, 'This is nuts! I'm a shipping clerk for God's sake. Why am I writing all the time?'  My plan was to drive home, change clothes, and go to the local sports bar and get drunk and forget about all this crazy writing stuff.  Just as I was headed out the door to the bar, my sister called on the phone from Kansas. She'd never called all the years I had been in California. She seemed urgent to tell me something, and blurted, 'Mom came to me in a dream last night. She took me into a pure white room and began flipping through a big stack of white papers with writing on them. She said, 'Look what Jr.'s been doing.'

  My knees started shaking. My Mom who'd died 18 months before ... had been watching me. My heart pounded. I wanted to believe it, but ... had to prove this was real. Now, what I had been writing for months now were stories about what people are going through all over the planet, and poems, and stories about children's innocent wisdom.

  I asked my sister, 'What was on the papers Mom showed you?'  My sister sighed, 'Oh, I don't know there was so much there.'  Then, she blurted, 'WAIT!  I remember lots of poems, and stories about what people are going through all around the world, and there were stories about children's innocent wisdom and what it offers the planet at this time.'  My knees were shaking so bad, I had to grab the bed to keep from falling.  

  Then my sister was about to hang up, but at the last second blurted out, 'WAIT! Mom made me promise to tell you this. She said you are doubting what you are doing because it is so strange and new to you ... but Mom said I have to tell you IT IS VERY IMPORTANT THAT YOU KEEP WRITING.'

  Looking back, I actually now know this all started when I was 6 years old and had an angelic visitation at our home in Kansas. An angel came and took me out of bed and flew me away to a place where it 'taught me to meditate' ... I had no idea what meditation was as a boy, but the angel taught me how to breathe, and let go mentally, emotionally, and physically-- 16 years later I would take my first Meditation class ... and remember what the angel had taught me.  What is fascinating is that around that same time 60 years ago, my future wife, a catholic school girl in Hong Kong had a vision of Mother Mary ... and we did the math, and there is a real likelihood that I saw my angel and she saw Mother Mary at EXACTLY THE SAME MOMENT.

  Then we found each other at a rural college in Kansas, moved to California, learned to meditation, learned to teach meditation ... then wrote 6 books on it, and organized 2 global Mind Body education events--WHICH THE FORMER DIRECTOR OF REASEARCH AT PRINCETON UNIVERSITY ENGINEERING ANOMALIES RESEARCH LAB ... EXPLAINED HAD 'INCREASED COHERENCE IN GLOBAL CONSCIOUSNESS.'

  My latest book is the culmination of all this, entitled, 'New 2nd Edition, The Gospel of Science: Mind Blowing New Science on Ancient Truths to Heal Our Stress, Lives, and Planet.'  This 700 page book of meticulously cited science is the basis for THE GLOBAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT, a global campaign for a U.N. Resolution advocating Mind Body Education (Meditation, Yoga, Tai Chi, Chi Kung, Mindfulness) for Public Education worldwide because it can Increase IQs, Boost Test Scores, Verbal Fluency, Math Proficiency, Immunity, Reduce Violence and Bullying, etc. etc. translating into TRILLIONS in annual savings in future health & social costs.

  My first book which launched World Tai Chi Day, was 'The Complete Idiot's Guide to Tai Chi & Qigong' originally published by MacMillan in New York, and then other publishers, until Penguin Alpha Books published the 4th edition.

  I had other Extraordinary Consciousness Experiences and eventually started a YouTube Channel, 'Global Transformation Project Bill Douglas' where we interview leading scientists on human consciousness, mind body, and Extraordinary Consciousness Experiences, and ALL OUR RESOURCES ARE FREE PUBLIC SERVICES:
  Global Transformation Project Bill Douglas Channel on YouTube
  www.WorldTaiChiDay.org
  www.GlobalTransformationProject.org    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1985  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         I don't know if I died, but it was an NDE like experience  Other I suffered an emotional death after losing my Mother, Father, and youngest Son within an 18 month pe  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  In a way, I saw my future facilitating the connection of humanity via global movements that connected people worldwide ... but, it was nebulous ... I would have to actually live my life to understand what I was perceiving 40 years ago.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could understand EVERYTHING. It was clear we are all connected, all the same, and all loved limitlessly and without condition. I could see that all the chaos and turmoil are like waves popping up and around ... but the ocean beneath us and everything is love, pure love.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my being expanded outward beyond Earth into space.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     So much happened in a very short amount of time.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was a universal vision. I could see things in my mind/consciousness, seeing everyone everywhere, and feeling their feelings, and the universal that is beneath and behind everything. It is beyond words.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was extraordinary, like hurricane waves or volcanic explosions at times, and sweet and soothing at others  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   When the being touched the center of my mind and heart the extraordinary light expanded ... and I became that expanding light ... and then the entire Earth and I were all floating in the same loving caring light, the fabric of the universe.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I expanded out with the expanding light beyond Earth, beyond the moon, but it was clear that planet Earth was a focus of this experience.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, love, love, heartbreaking deep connection with everyone, everything. Excitement about the possibilities for me and humanity, which really was all one, I was connected to everything. Then a moment of fear, wondering if I was dying--which is when I slammed back into my body.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew for certain, I felt it at my core, we are all connected, all part of an ocean of love.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I saw that the solutions to our challenges are simple and elegant ... and that I was part of their manifestation in the future.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I meditate daily ... I have drifted away over 40 years, but always come back  

What is your religion now?       Select   I have come to find great wisdom in ALL the major religion's texts ... but, also feel there are aspects of those texts which are not divinely inspired, and in some cases hurtful to the spiritual awakening process  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Realizing we are ALL THE SAME, and all connected, was huge.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The being said, in the center of my mind, 'I am about to show you what life COULD be like.'  Then at the end it told me, 'Fear closes all doors. Fear closes all doors. Fear closes all doors.' And when I walked out of my room reeling with what I'd experienced I saw a pen and paper, and the being said, 'WRITE!'  I realize now that this same being had spoken to me at 6 years old. It had taught me how to meditate.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   At 6 years old I saw an Angel. The event in my 20s was a voice, but no visible being, but the sense of its presence was visceral.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I know I have a mission, but got no indication that in that experience that I have been here before, but since then have had memories of past lives.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes, the fabric of everything is love. I walked away knowing that God is love, the fabric of all existence is love.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Yeah, I am here to share 'New 2nd Edition; The Gospel of Science...''s 700 pages of science on how powerful our consciousness is, and how we can transform the planet by providing science-based Mind Body Education in Public Education worldwide via the global movement I founded, The Global Transformation Project. www.GlobalTransformationProject.org  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are all the same, connected by an ocean of love. Meditation practices bring this reality home to people, and is evidenced in science showing regular meditation increases the size of the Empathy/Compassion parts of the brain. I have spent all these 40 years since this cosmic event collecting the science showing we can change the world in massive ways by making the world aware of this science.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     It was obvious that our physical existence is not really who we are  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I felt and know we are ALL going through the same things, sharing the same hopes, dreams, fears, doubts, loves.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is the fabric beneath everything  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Realizing we're all here to make the world a better place ... it fills my life ... and part of what makes it a better place is enjoying, having gratitude, for our lives and our world.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I became much closer to EVERYONE after that, seeing the divine in everyone's eyes.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I spent 40 years, writing 6 books, struggling to understand and express what I learned in those moments of the experience. It was like an exploding file on a computer, it downloaded so much so quickly it has taken a lifetime to unfold and understand.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  My Extraordinary Consciousness Experiences WERE MORE REAL THAN ANY EVENTS IN MY LIFE.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can tune into vibes ... when I got the idea in a meditation to organize a global meditation event ... I had a sense that others around the world also wanted it to become reality ... and it did ... in over 85 nations.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        LOVE  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with people very close to me, but then learned not everyone has ears for it ... but I think that is changing rapidly today.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The being who spoke to me to initiate the event ... also, had directed me to a pen and paper immediately after the event, telling me, 'WRITE!' ... had that not happened ... I may have dismissed it in time, and forgotten it ... because the world was definitely not as excited about it as I was to my profound disappointment ... but, today, in 2023 ... that is changing.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes    I have had several Extraordinary Consciousness Experiences ... and when I meditate I 'touch the hem of the garment' of the experience I had ... it's not anywhere close to the actual experience ... but it's like a whiff of the perfume from it.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1william_d_ste.html