{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bilge_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Bilge M NDE 2593","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bilge M NDE 2593  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bilge M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						981  Bilge M NDE  2593  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  It was the first day of religious festival. I couldn't remember the exact date. I had gotten over a serious illness that year. That's why I remember the year very well. After breakfast, I left the table and drank a glass of water while I was standing. Suddenly, I felt a strong pain in my chest. I fainted. However, I was still conscious but in a different place - at least my soul was. At first, it was very dark. I can't describe the place. I was asking myself where I was. I realized that I was flying very fast, as if I was looking for myself. I felt very light and relaxed. At one point, I saw myself on the floor. I was lying on my right arm. I went down and tried to raise myself, but it was impossible; my body was very heavy. Besides when I tried, I felt dizzy. Suddenly, I looked up and saw a beautiful place. Everywhere was green; small streams were running. I felt I was being pulled there. I tried to reach there with my hand, as if some hand were pulling me. While I was nearing that place, I heard my husband's and daughter's voices. I turned my head and saw them. Then I took my hands back. I was screaming 'Not now, not now.' At that point, something happened; I describe this event like separating a column of water from another body of water. I came round. I was told that I had fainted; but I had been conscious.

If death is like this experience; believe me, it is very nice. Still, I sometimes faint, but I do not live the same experience at all. Last time I fainted in May 2006. I felt I was the same place. I do not know where it is. I feel afraid that I would love the place and wouldn't come back. My duties are not over yet in the World. I also believe that if one wants to leave himself the death happens.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 nisan 1995  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.   Illness        Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I only fainted.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I didn't lose my consciousness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was seeing a little unclearly. When I opened my eyes the view was getting clear.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard everything.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     People were around but away. I couldn't see their faces; but saw their hands.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was in the place ahead of me. I was being pulled there.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     yeşillik ve suların aşgıdan aktığı bir yer gördüm.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It felt very nice. I was very light, as if my soul was running like water. My body was too heavy for me.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     After this experience the future event I saw in my dreams about other people became real.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Especially the place.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can read what is inside minds of people and sometimes I tell people about their future, because a voice coming from inside my mind tells me. But I do not always believe this voice and I become afraid. I do not want to know everything about the future.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As I am a reliable person everyone believed in my experience. By now no one said this experience was not true.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believe that this was a real experience since I was conscious all the way. I understood that I'm a different person from other people.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still believe that that experience was definitely real. I'm afraid that I might live the same experience again and might go further.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes I faint and once I went to the same place, but always come back very soon. After I lost my consciousness, I feel as if my soul is recharged and gets stronger. Sometimes I know that I'm going to faint and it happens in a few days. Last time I fainted, I talked loudly and said, 'They do something to me. Mom do not give me to them.'  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bilge_m_nde.html