{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1beverly_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Beverly H NDE 20154","mylang":"de"}
          	        Beverly H NDE 20154  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Beverly H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						267  Beverly H NDE  20154  					  				      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

During this drowning episode, I was dizzy and disoriented, and this grew and I think allowed me to leave the body more easily. Around the time that I was leaving the body I started to remember another life, where I was also drowning, and had a vivid memory of this drowning incident in a hurricane in 1860, remembering I was a woman on the way to Jamaica to visit family or some business thing.  I distinctly remembered my big crinolines, which caused me to be unable to swim, as I was tossed off the ship along with many of us who were hanging on.  This was so strong that I almost went into it totally.  Then as I was leaving my body in this life, I began to hear this huge sound.  The sound was growing and finally realized it was me.  I was actually a rocket and was on my way home, not knowing quite how to get there, but I knew I knew the way.  As this sound was beginning to take me up, a voice came to me and said, ‘You are drowning in the wrong life.’  At that point or shortly afterwards, I found myself on my feet in three feet of water.


Very tired, but ok.  I went back to the beach and rested until the men got back and they said that the water was very bad and they were glad I didn't go all the way out there.  I believe this voice came from the teacher I found later in life and at this time have fairly good recall of many of my past lives going back to when I had my exit from the void. My early life was very hard and was raised by atheists who were quite abusive, so this gave me an entire new outlook on life and have had hundreds or even thousands of paranormal and even miraculous evens since this happened.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1967

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     'drowning, left body,  but was made to come back'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' I was going out to scuba dive, by myself, and for the first time. The men had gone on because I was taking too much time to get ready.  On the way out, I stumbled over something under the water, and did not have my mask on yet, as I wasn't expecting any trouble. I was hit by several waves and lost my footing and balance. I couldn't get air, or the surface of the water, and started to swallow water. Shortly after that I realized I was drowning, and let go of the body, so easy.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Perfect.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A great rushing sound which turned into a rocket as if you were sitting next to something going off at Cape Canaveral.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     No, Now I am on a sound yoga path. But nothing I had ever heard of at that time.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Only in my other-life part of the experience. The voice stayed as a voice.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was there but not the prominent feature.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt the speed of the experience, but mostly it was a larger field of emotion.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Only in sensing a higher and more powerful me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I was definitely brought back while I was trying to leave.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     My whole past life experience opened up, access that I never had or even thought of prior to that experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The tremendous sound and knowing my way home were the best. The bad part was the fatigue and irritation about being left on the beach to fend for myself, but as it turned out it was for the best.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mostly there is just a stunned silence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     The initial list at the beginning of your survey was pretty limited.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I have no suggestions at this time.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1beverly_h_nde.html