{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1betty_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Betty J NDE 4632","mylang":"de"}
          	        Betty J NDE 4632  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Betty J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2344 Betty J NDE 4632  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					FIRST EXPERIENCE

My first experience was in 1951. I was ten years old. I had been doing some artwork. My friend called to me, from outside. I ran to the window and pushed it up, to see what my friend wanted. I placed the paintbrush in my mouth, as I opened the heavy, old window. (In an apartment house on second floor.) The rope on the window broke - slamming the window into the top of my head, and jammed the wood, pointed end of the paintbrush up into the roof of my mouth. I was bleeding profusely. I went to the sink and blood poured from my mouth. I said to my mother 'It's pouring like a fountain.' Next thing I knew I was inside of a long tunnel, heading (feet first) down the tunnel at an incredible speed, toward a very bright light at the end of this tunnel. I woke up laying on my back on the floor, with my hands clawing at the floor on either side of me, trying to 'slow down' the speed.



SECOND EXPERIENCE

My second experience was in 1959. I was eighteen and had just given birth (three weeks earlier) to my first child. I was out for a Saturday night with my husband and another couple. My husband and I were in the back seats of the car. It was raining and we were on our way home - on Compton Road - in Ohio, September 1959. We missed a curve and crashed into a tree. I went flying through the front passenger-side glass. My arm was nearly severed - requiring seventy-two stitches.

I viewed everything - floating beneath the tree. I saw my husband and me lying in the driveway. I saw the lady in her curlers and robe run from her house. I was not frightened - just very curious. I looked at my left hand, turning it over and over amazed that I had a form. I could feel the rain falling on me. I saw the ambulances coming- and noticed that one was a Ford and one a Cadillac. For some reason it seemed important to look at those models. I came to as they were putting me into the ambulance. I told them at the hospital what models the ambulances were and they couldn't believe I could know this.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1951 and 1959

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident. Direct head injury    Other 'First one, from having the wooden point of a paint brush jammed into the roof of my mouth. Second one- in a car wreck where I was flung through the glass of the passenger side window.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Immediately.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In the tunnel - a speeding of time, as my body flew through the tunnel at an amazing speed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was speeding through a tunnel feet first. Much like being on a Bob sled - only the speed was tremendous.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An extremely bright light at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I floated in the air, beneath a tree,where I watched everything going on.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The 1951 'tunnel' experience: I felt a fright at the horrific speed I was traveling at, going down that tunnel.  The 1959 car wreck: 'out of body' experience. I was very relaxed - but very amazed that I was hovering beneath this tree, and that I had a 'form' - but not afraid in any way. Just observing and curious.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I realized that we have a soul, with a form - which surprised me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I think I'm a lot more understanding and spiritual.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A deeper understanding and caring for people, some ESP experiences, also visions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The tunnel experience was especially meaningful, when I heard of others similar experiences, later in my life.  The car wreck experience was extremely significant as it made me realize that we do have a soul that can leave our bodies!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared them immediately. Some did not believe - said I 'dreamed' it - or I was in 'shock'. Many were influenced when I told them that we DO have a soul.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have never forgotten a single detail of both experiences.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As the years went on, and I began hearing about the tunnel that I had been in, and first heard of 'out of body' experiences, I realized that what had happened to me had happened to others. But I realized the experiences were real, and would have been so, even if I'd never heard of another experiencing what I had.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       These are the only two experiences I have ever had. Events that stays fresh in my mind.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes, you could ask HOW MANY experiences we've had. I feel I may have been confusing here, trying to describe the two experiences; the 'tunnel' at age ten and the 'out of body' at age eighteen.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1betty_j_nde.html