{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1betty_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Betty H NDE 7530","mylang":"de"}
          	        Betty H NDE 7530  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Betty H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3856 Betty H NDE 7530  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					For the last 15 years, I had been caring for my husband who had suffered a stroke.  He was bedridden the last 5 years.  I was also working a fulltime job. I had neglected my asthma symptoms for some time. One night, I was putting out the trash and had a difficult time breathing.  I ran into the house to get my inhaler but couldn't get any air.  I told my husband, who was in a hospital bed in the living room to ‘call 911, that I am going to die.’  He couldn't do it.  So I grabbed the phone on the desk, called 911 and gasped, 'I can't breathe.'  

This is the last thing I remember until the next afternoon when I was in a hospital bed and a doctor was at my bed, telling me I had a very traumatic event; that I had a cardiac arrest.  My daughter, Andrea, was standing beside my bed, holding my hand.  I was told that the emergency squad found me on the floor unresponsive with the phone in my hand.  I was told that I had been intubated and became combative in the ambulance. Apparently, due to lack of oxygen to my brain, I had no short or long term memory. I remembered nothing from the time I called 911 to tell them I could not breathe. 

Three days later, when I came home from the hospital, I was sitting in my family room trying to figure out what happened.  Then I remembered it being dark and I felt a jolt.  I saw very bright multi-colored lights, mostly purples and greens.  Then I heard a voice in my head say, 'Do you want to stay here with Chris (my son who passed 7 years before) or go back to be with Andrea?'  Then I heard a voice in my head say, 'I have to go back to be with Andrea, she needs me.'

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/21/2012

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack.  Brought on by asthma attack.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Suffered an asthma attack causing cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At no time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Very clear

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Very clear

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very brightly colored lights, mostly purple and green.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very calm and peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard a male voice.  I heard a very clear voice in my head, but at the same time, I had lost awareness of my body.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably existsá

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that I was definitely with my son and that I made my decision to return without hesitation, although it wasn't my voice that I heard saying I had to go back.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably existsá

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life. I have since retired from working, my husband is now in a nursing home and I plan to live a very meaningful life for myself and others.     Large changes in my life. I have since retired from working, my husband is now in a nursing home and I plan to live a very meaningful life for myself and others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The knowing I was with my son is very significant since I know he is waiting for me when it's my time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Almost immediately.  I believe I have helped many others, especially other mothers who have lost children.  All have thanked me for sharing my experience and I have been told how much comfort it gives them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have read of many NDEs.  My knowledge did not have any effect on my experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believe I was given the choice to come back so that I can be with my daughter. I know she would have never made it without me. I am still in awe of my experience and feel it was a gift and meant so that I can enjoy life and help people along the way.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel very blessed to have this chance to do wonderful things.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am so happy I can share this most amazing experience.  Thank you for this opportunity.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1betty_h_nde.html