{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1betty_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Betty F NDE 4938","mylang":"de"}
          	        Betty F NDE 4938  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Betty F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2535 Betty F NDE 4938  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My father died on the evening of 11/21/2010. It was the first time I've ever seen anyone die, or had anyone die, and he was the closest person to my life. On the morning of 11/23/2010, I passed out/fainted. I had two fainting spells. The first one was a complete blackout, no memory or recollection when I was out. The second one has a memory. 

When I awoke, I had a vivid memory of what I saw and it actually felt as if I had been somewhere, and that I had returned from that 'happy place' and very loving. It did not feel like a dream at all - it felt I was there, and it was incredibly 'happy', exhilarating, and I was not content coming back to reality. The memory is vivid, stronger than a dream felt alert, aware, real, like being there, felt like I was awake, easy to recall. I saw people but no faces, just dark/shadowed bodies in the background. A person was next to me in the light - shining person, who looked like it might be a woman, don't know - but she had an enlightening feeling about her. People felt real, felt like I floated back to reality, floated through an area.

I don't know what this was other than it felt like I was somewhere else physically.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11/23/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    'Fainted, passed out, noted to have very low blood pressure 70/40, and slowed down and faint breathing. I don't know if I went or not, but my sister said my skin was yellowish/green - same color as my father's when we saw him pass on 11/21/2010.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'Fainted, passed out, noted to have very low blood pressure 70/40, and slowed down breathing. Paramedics said I could've died.  I don't know if I went or not, but my sister said my skin was yellowish/green - same color as my father's when we saw him pass  Fainted, passed out, noted to have very low blood pressure 70/40, and slowed down breathing. Paramedics said I could've died. I don't know if I went or not, but my sister said my skin was yellowish/green - same color as my father's when we saw him pass on 11/21/2010.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Entire experience - I believe it was short. My sister says I blacked out for just a few minutes only. She said she was getting ready to do CPR when I finally awoke.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt I was at a different place - not like a dream. It was completely different than a dream, felt real.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Only my sense of love and emotion and feeling was stronger than usual.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Only my sense of love and emotion and feeling was stronger than usual.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Dark shadowed people, and the light of the person next to me looking over at me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Only the light of the person standing next to me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Only my sense of love and emotion and feeling was stronger than usual. Love, happy, and intense emotion of beauty.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe I need to research more and find out what this spiritual meaning is.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Believe in god or source of some sort, but do not practice any religion.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe I need to research more and find out what this spiritual meaning is.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   When I awoke, I felt I had to say my children's name to stay here. I also immediately thought that I had been to where I'd been to so I can know that my father is in a good place.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of them, the entire experience is vivid - seeing the shadowed people, who were they? Who was the person in the light seeing over me?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately after I went home from the hospital. I told my sisters and family. Some believed I crossed over, some did not because their religion does not allow them to believe that.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Heard of it, but did not know the specifics surrounding it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just feel it's real - it felt so real the minute I woke up, and even now. I've been having dreams since the experience, and the feelings felt during and after the dreams are clearly different than the feeling I had with the 11/23 experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I read through the NDE stories, they are different than mine. I haven't found anything similar to mine, so I would like an assessment from someone that knows of NDEs.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1betty_f_nde.html