{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1beth_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Beth V NDE 2094","mylang":"de"}
          	        Beth V NDE 2094  		  		  		  		  		    		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Beth V NDE 2094  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						539  Beth V NDE 2094  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I had planned an attempted suicide that was quite serious in intent.  I have many overdoses due to severe mental illness.  I took a huge number of sedatives mixed with alcohol.  I almost died.  At one point I was crawling on the floor unable to move except by my fingertips.  I lapsed in and out of consciousness.  I experienced my whole life again, with affect attached in lightning speed.  I experienced a sense of tremendous engulfing darkness and space: a void. 

The next day or so, when I had recovered, I feel an lifting up and relief.  I began a spiritual (Buddhist) quest for enlightenment and began to have these moments for months.  Clarity of a vision of the whole world, amazing peace (unusual for me), and a wholeness.  I was no longer suicidal or depressed even (again unusual for me). 

I am a writer so I started writing with a passion I've never felt before.  Unfortunately these special states only last a few months.  But I began to research them and found a surprising coincidence of similarity.  That is why I am sharing mine here. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Harvest Moon, Sept. 2002  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Suicide attempt       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At no time.  I was overdosing.  But afterwards I was extraordinarily clear for months.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     A vast darkness and void opened up.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     A void  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Terror.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am Buddhist and had enlightenment experiences directly after.  It suddenly all made sense in a profound way.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am Buddhist and had enlightenment experiences directly after.  It suddenly all made sense in a profound way.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Afterward, yes.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I was unable to move because of an OD.  I saw my past in its completeness.  Mainly though, it was the aftermath:  a profound spiritual revival as a Buddhist.  Clarity of vision in the spiritual and 'sthetic sense.  I am a writer and could not stop the flow of it pouring out until I stopped because the whole world seemed as if it were a poem.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sense of the world as a poem.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My psychiatrist who was skeptical.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew that I had tested the limit of life and survived.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It produced tangible changes.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I believe that this is a universal and ancient experience;  from shaman to Christian mystics.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1beth_v_nde.html