{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1beth_nde.html","mytitle":"Beth NDE 1023","mylang":"de"}
          	        Beth NDE 1023  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  		  				  					Beth NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						452  Beth NDE  1023  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in bad pain, at ten on their scales. I asked God to take the pain away. Then I was suddenly above looking down on my monitor and IV pole and my body. I then saw a white being that floated up. I was asked if I was ready and I said yes. Then the being told me to follow. I followed and went to see my kids. I kept arguing that I could go and it would be okay for them. I went to the waiting room and saw my family. They were talking and I watched them. I saw my son on the playground at school. I then went to the light to see my mother who had passed. I could not go in. I would have to make a decision. I wanted to go, but the being showed me what would happen to my children if I did. It was bad.


So, basically I gave in and said okay. Then I went back to my body and watched myself go back in. Then the nurse grabbed my hand and said I was okay. There were things in between, but too painful to discuss at this time.


Weird part was that I watched this nurse take a coke break at the beginning of the experience and the nurse across the room chewed her out on her return because I had gone into respiratory arrest. The monitor flat-lined, but the hospital has little record of this, except that my records show that while the nurse was gone, my rates were exactly the same while she was gone. She made them up. Several nurses later verified this, against the hospital's wishes.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    November 1994

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related  Had cancer, hysterectomy, left a bleeder   Hospital never admitted death. Records show otherwise, by nurse on duty.I was in pain, didn't know why. They kept giving me morphine to subside pain. Angel told me it was the ' bleeder' the doctor left in me. It would be healed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Really, more when I went back in. It was like the movie Ghost, where I watched my spirit hand go into my body hand.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert, although I couldn't figure out at first why I was above the IV pole.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Just the flying to see the kids. It was very fast.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     I saw it, but could not pass, that was the decision making moment. I had a choice.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I saw people standing around the light, but not smiling, just standing. I had a feeling they knew me and loved me, but I did not recognize anyone.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw my child on his playground and verified this later with him playing football with a certain child and then I told the daycare worker what my daughter had for lunch. Spaghetti. It was true.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew why I had died, and that God knew I had tried to commit suicide many years before.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     The only detail was that I had tried to commit suicide in high school. It was said to me, 'You tried to kill yourself once, now you are making your choice, don't threaten to do it again. You are choosing to live for your children. No more. You are to live.'

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I knew that my children would be in danger, although nothing had happened so far. I later found out, after I came back, that my daughter had been molested by her stepbrother. I had to fight for her. Then, my ex-husband entered a drug rehabilitation center, which would have left my children to I don't know what.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I decided to come back. I should never try to commit suicide again. That was my chance to go and I decided to stay.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   believed in miracles

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I now am not scared to die. It doesn't hurt.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I told my family I heard what they said in the waiting room - word for word.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     I already had them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I didn't want to come back, just thought I needed to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They think I am nuts. Even after I quoted their conversations in the waiting room - now they sort of believe me.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I have nothing more to say and have told you more than I have told anyone. Do not contact me.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1beth_nde.html