{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1beth_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Beth B NDE 4277","mylang":"de"}
          	        Beth B NDE 4277  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Beth B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2104 Beth B NDE 4277  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in a backyard pool (with a deep end) at a swimming party for our Brownie group.  Playing with a beach ball a friend accidentally hit me in the face and I went under water.  I was told that my mother saw me and tried to get someone's attention, but then I looked like I was ok.  I wasn't.  I had struggled up to the surface three times, and then had a very warm, comfortable feeling that everything was going to be fine.  I saw what I thought was the sun sparkling on the surface of the water, then suddenly the water was gone and I was moving toward a figure.  Before I got to the person, I had a flash of things that had happened in my life.  As short as it was at the time, and can recall three or four things that happened when I was an infant (ivy wallpaper, getting my hair washed, having my tonsils out, my first dog dying, etc.), but there was only a happy feeling, nothing sad.  I could then see that the man had a funny hat and the most beautiful face.  He smiled at me and seemed to say that it wasn't time yet, but I kept close to him because it felt so comforting to me.  

During this unspoken communication, I was suddenly jolted back by a hard pressure on my chest, and then I was floating above a scene by the side of the pool.  My mother was crying and kneeling over me while my friend's brother was pushing on my back.  It seemed like it lasted for a long time, but I saw several people doing things that I remembered to be strange, as I was 'treetop level' in the yard, (there was only an avocado tree in the yard, not a tall one). At that moment, I came whooshing back into my body, feeling like I couldn't breathe.  Back to reality.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1956

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other drowning  Near drowning event.  I had gone under three times before anyone realized I was having trouble.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire experience felt like I was in a higher level of awareness than I had ever been.  This event is crystal clear in my memory and has always been.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I couldn't tell how long I was there, but it seemed like there was no sense of time, or that I needed to get back.  Then, when I heard him say it wasn't time, I whooshed back into the backyard.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was seeing multiple things all at the same time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was a musical humming but not a song, per se.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was a dark area, but not a tunnel so much as a hallway with a light at the end.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Grandfather, whom I had never met.  He died eight years before I was born. He looked younger than his picture, but he had the same wide brimmed hat that he wore tilted on his head.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Surrounding my grandfather, there was a beautiful meadow, with several animals (dogs, birds, a cat) and the colors were very vivid, like in a painting.  There was a golden haze or glow all around.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, happiness and connectedness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Please see narrative above.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     This is another thing that I kept from the experience.  I am very tuned into my loved ones and seem to know before things happen that they're going to happen.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Not religiousness, but spirituality.  I see all religions as having parts of the truth.  We choose what religion to follow based on our soul's needs.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not religiousness, but spirituality.  I see all religions as having parts of the truth.  We choose what religion to follow based on our soul's needs.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Within weeks of this event I found an article about the Rosicrucian's (Know the Mysteries of Life) and I ordered the small paperback books and read every one of them.  My parents thought I needed counselling.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The difficulty was in getting my parents to let me talk about it.  I wanted to tell them how good it felt, and that I had seen my mother's father who had died before I was born.  The whole event scared both my parents, so the only one I could really talk to about it was my grandmother (wife of the grandfather I had met), who totally believed me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately, and still do.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     When my grandmother visited and I told her about the man I thought was my grandfather, she listened and then pulled out this picture of him (he was 65 when he died). It was the same man I had visited, but much younger.  He didn't say this to me, but I said something to my grandmother that convinced her that I had seen him. It was strange, but I remembered to tell her that the key was behind the stove.  She had lost her clock key, and that's where she found it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has changed my life in terms of my belief system, how I treat others and how I view the nature of the soul.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I very much enjoyed sharing this event. I truly believe that the soul is immutable and that there is an afterlife (probably many lifetimes).      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1beth_b_nde.html