{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bess_nde.html","mytitle":"Bess NDE 181","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bess NDE 181  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Bess NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						630  Bess NDE  181  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

 My near death experience happened after cardiac surgery. At the time of surgery, I was already critically ill.  In fact, I was dying from congestive heart failure caused by congenital cardiac problems associated with Holt-Oram syndrome. I had not experienced any major problems with my heart up until about roughly a year before my surgery.  I have been told since that the doctors involved in my case were not overly confident that I would make it through surgery because, even as I was being an'sthetized, I was turning blue and my breathing was erratic. The surgery itself went well and I was moved to the cardiac intensive care unit.  All seemed well until I was intubated and allowed to breathe on my own. I began having breathing difficulties soon after and had to be re-intubated.


To cut a very long story short, this happened three times in total over a six week period and I needed to have a tube with a balloon on the end inserted into my groin which went up to my heart and pulsated with every heartbeat.  During this time I did have brief moments of consciousness as the doctors took me off life support periodically to see if I was able to breathe on my own but I think for the most part I was unconscious.  During all this, I was critically ill, doctors had told my family I had about a twenty-five percent chance of surviving and if I did make it through there was a high chance I would have sustained major brain damage.


At some stage, although I know I wasn't conscious, I too had the thought that I was going to die. I remember hearing myself say, 'I'm going to die.' I wasn't at all upset by this thought. Then there was a brief moment of darkness and next thing, I could see myself lying in what I think was a room. This room was full of light and even though it was a bright light it wasn't like glaring sunlight more of a pleasant golden-white light coming through what may have been a glass wall. I felt very loved at that moment, very much at peace and relaxed. Even though I couldn't see anyone else, I knew I wasn't alone. After a little while, I heard a gentle male voice tell me 'You are going to be alright, you are not going to die.' I should clarify that when I say I heard a voice, I didn't actually 'hear' it with my ears, it was in my mind, more like a thought. I do remember thinking I must have died and gone to heaven.  That is all I can remember of the experience, except that it wasn't at all upsetting or frightening in any way.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    March 1997

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death 

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I remember looking down at myself, I looked very peaceful.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was unconscious.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I did experience a moment of darkness but unsure whether I went through tunnel etc.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I didn't actually see anyone but I knew I wasn't alone.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was a bright light it wasn't like glaring sunlight more of a pleasant golden-white light.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Initially a little unsure and anxious but for the most part a feeling of being safe, loved and relaxed.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   None

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Spiritual but non religious

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Yes, although I am not a religious person, I feel much more spiritual now.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Difficult to explain as it was somewhat like a dream.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I am far more intuitive and I have ESP. I have seen and spoken to angels on several occasions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Being initially scared of dying would have to be the worst. Everything else was wonderful!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have only discussed it with my husband who was very understanding and interested. He did not disbelieve me. With his ongoing support, I have been able to write down my experience to share with others.  I'm a little unsure of sharing my experience with anyone else in my family as I think they would find it odd and maybe not believe me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      It's fine the way it is. Thank you for giving me an opportunity to share with others who have this experience.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bess_nde.html