{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1berta_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Berta P NDE 3966","mylang":"de"}
          	        Berta P NDE 3966  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Berta P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1895 Berta P NDE 3966  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sixteen years old, history of emotional, psychical and sexual abuse, intoxicated, involved in a severe motor vehicle accident that threw me a hundred and thirty-eight feet, landing on the pavement face first. I do not remember the impact, transportation to the hospital or treatment up until the time of death. I remember the code team working on me, and then they slowly turned and walked away. The M.D. had said that it was over; he was ending the resuscitation attempt (calling the code).

I was floating in the air, up in the corner, above some equipment. I was looking down at everything. My vision was extremely clear and intense - as if being in a body was like being in a lens, and now it was clear. I felt wonderful - no body sensations, pain, or density. Everything was light and pure, beyond anything describable. I hung out in that space for a while, and then my parents arrived at the hospital (they had had to travel some distance to reach the hospital).

When they were allowed to enter the room to see me, my mother went into hysterics, and fell to the floor. She was in such extreme emotion, and I was in such a wonderful place, no suffering! I had been aware of the tunnel of light with me for a while, but did not seem compelled to approach it. I was allowed to make the decision whether or not to return.

As my mother was in extremis, I wanted her to know that it was all right, that I wasn't suffering - the next thing I know I'm holding out my hand to take hers. I've been back in this density, with pain and suffering, ever since (with brief excursions). Bummer.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  8/1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    Other pronounced dead  Saw the code team stop, and M.D. called the code. I was pronounced dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was floating up in the corner of the room.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     See above.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity, colors, brightness, and depth perception.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing things exactly - more knowing on an emotional level.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was aware of the tunnel and light, but didn't feel compelled to approach it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See above

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort, light, weightless - without the burden on the body. As if this was what I was trying to get back to. No straining to get or do anything. No stress - no one could hurt me. Calm. Peace. Love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     The experience taught me that there is a different level of existence (at least one) that transcends the lower level we appear to be existing in now.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I'm here to accelerate the coming shift to this next dimension.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More compassion, a deeper understanding of our struggles here on earth.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm afraid of sharing this information. But I will since I don't know you, and you don't know me. In the 1970's, we had 'encounter groups' and I participated.

  During one exercise, I was placed at the head of the 'target' person, who was on a massage table, on his back, who was a priest. As I tried to put my hands on either side of his head, a blinding white light arced so strongly that it knocked him off the table, and I was left trying to understand and explain this the other ten or twelve people.

  I also have numerous ESP experiences, some able to be duplicated, some not. Telekinesis of a pencil, and clairvoyance, etc. I have also, as a massage therapist, been present, with hands-on, as healings happened (many, many times). I also have the ability to tune-in to places and spaces, to read the history of events. Very disturbing, I've had to develop coping mechanisms, as these abilities are not necessarily controlled by me. I have seen angels during massage. I have also been aware of 'Grays' being present - I am also a UFO abductee, which also contributes to confusion of what comes from where.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I had been very religious as a small child. Visions of Jesus, angels, and etc. I even drew a picture when I was three of Jesus ascending with the Holy Spirit descending, which my aunt saved and returned to me when I was forty years old. A Catholic Bishop had told me that that level of experience was not to be had on this plane, and to stop talking about it. After this experience, I knew better.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was probably two years before the incident with the priest. I had been having visions of the apartment I was living in. It was a scene that continues in a loop of time. I became so strong, and I did not understand what was happening, that one night I just packed my things and left. I moved back to the area two years later, and did some research. The apartment I had lived in had been used as a brothel in the 1840's. A man had killed his wife who was working there. There was also a man who loved the woman. He kept coming back to find her.

  I have had many experiences of this sort. I also have precognitive dreams that when I share them, and they manifest, people (1) blame me for the occurrence, or, (2) tell me to never talk to them again.

  There are times when psychic manifestations occur around me that I seem not to have control of, but manifest for the people around me to observe, and know that this density is not all that exists. When people observe 'supernatural' events, of course they back away. No one has ever asked questions, they just go away with mystified looks.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     One of my occupations has been working as a Respiratory Therapist and Cardio-Vascular Technologist specializing in Cardiac Arrest Teams, and working with heart transplant patients. This gave me great opportunity, over thirty-two years, to interview patients immediately after successful resuscitation attempts. Probably thirty percent of my patients remembered something immediately after, but it seemed to be lost to memory as time progresses (hours/days).  Also, both my parents were unfortunate (fortunate?) to have multiple NDEs.

  My father had his first NDE when I was twenty-one (five years after mine). He told me he went to a 'gray place.' It was just gray, flat. He was a good Catholic - maybe he was sent to purgatory. My experience is people sometimes go where they expect to go. He had several more Codes, with the same experience. He finally got tired of going back and forth between realities because it was so difficult for him, and refused treatment, and died.

  My mother's experience was different in that she had sixteen resuscitation attempts within four hours. She did go to the light down the tunnel with the associated bliss, joy, deliverance each time. Each time, they brought her back. When she finally could regain consciousness enough to talk, she told them adamantly not to resuscitate her again!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Overdose of PCP - traveling around the house - tried to open the front door, but couldn't - light, no body sensations. My boyfriend had to come home and put me back in my body.

  Just in the last months, I have attended a Pentecostal church, and had the experience of being 'slain in the spirit', which gave me the same joy, calm, peace, love, with a vision down the tunnel of light while in my body.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm sorry I had the decision to come back. I've spent so many years dragging this body around; I'm ready to trade-up now.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1berta_p_nde.html