{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bernie_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Bernie N NDE 951","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bernie N NDE 951  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bernie N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						405  Bernie N NDE  951  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I remember being transported from Sandusky Michigan via ambulance to the hospital. I am not sure that I remember the arrival at Lapeer, only the departure from Sandusky. I found myself in a dark void. Total blackness. No boundaries, nothing to touch, nothing to see, nothing to smell, nothing to taste. I was totally separated from all creation. There was no floating sensation, yet there was nothing solid around, above or below me, that I could see or touch. There was nothing there except me. Alone in the dark.


I could think clearly, there was just nothing to interact with. No joy, no happiness, no fear, no sadness -- just empty, alone.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    June 21, 1997 thru June 28, 1997

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     CVA Cardio induced stroke. Blood clot was pushed into my brain, stroke occured.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I appeared to be in my body in this void of darkness, yet my body was in the hospital room under very bright lights.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      HIGH level of awareness, fully aware of my displacement from the reality of the hospital setting, yet no awareness of those who claim to have been beside my bed, and body.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     There was only darkness, no tunnel, no anything, just darkness.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The place I was in could not be of this dimension.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My belief in creation and the order of that creation has compounded many fold. I know that I have been given a glimpse of life without the beauty of GOD all around us. If there is a purgatory, I have been there.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     An affirmation of the order of existence.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The only good thing from this experience was my being returned to the hospital room and life whatever it may bring. The experience goes down in my memory as the worst thing to have ever happened to me, no part of it was better in any way, bad across the board.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Those who have heard of my experience have all been affected by it. The miracle of science, the miracle of GOD. The doctors test me monthly to see why I am alive; they say I should not be. The religious know that I was in the waiting room for hell. I know that GOD has given me a second chance.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Reading the accounts of others who have had similar experiences both good, bad, and worst has cause a 're-visiting' of the events, they scare me even more if that is possible than the experience itself. The fear of returning there.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      One only has to experience this once to realize just how important life is, and just how great this gift of life we have been given is.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bernie_n_nde.html