{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bernice_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Bernice N NDE 274","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bernice N NDE 274  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bernice N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1386 Bernice N NDE 274  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As I was in the cat scan, I felt tightness in breathing. I began to gasp. I looked to my right through a window and saw the technicians in a room talking. It became very painful (the choking) then it did not hurt anymore. I looked down and saw my body convulsing. I saw people rush towards me. The next thing I saw, was a tube being shoved down a person's throat (I was above the person like on the ceiling or something) I remember thinking that looks like it really hurts! I heard the doctor's talking and I saw the paddles going towards the person. All of a sudden, I realized that the person was me. I was scared. The next thing I knew I was back in my body on the table, and felt a choking feeling due to the tube down my throat.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See narrative.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt totally alert and conscious.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Uncertain, happy, scared, panic.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have visions of all major plane crashes, train wrecks, earthquakes, at least twenty-four hours in advance.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best and worst is being left with this 'gift'. It is horrible to be able to see this and not to be able to help the people. I am tired of people thinking that I am 'strange' because I can do this. A lot of times I won't share what I see because of this.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Every time I have a vision I share it with my spouse, family, and friends. They are still shocked when it happens.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Are there others that have the same gift as I do? Can they control it or ignore it? I would love to be able to turn it off sometimes. I would like to contact others that have had the same experience.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bernice_n_nde.html