{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1benny_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Benny M NDE 2866","mylang":"de"}
          	        Benny M NDE 2866  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Benny M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						989  Benny M NDE  2866  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I do not know how to write this but I will try. On Tuesday July 17th of 2006, I had an experience in the emergency room of the hospital, surrounded by several emergency room staff and a few doctors that I recognized from over the years. My heart stopped beating and I went unconscious. This is very hard to write. It is hard for me to explain but I entered another plane of existence at the exact moment I passed out and realized I was floating in a multidimensional space. This was not a dream, dreams for me have never had well defined time and space relation or even make cognitive sense. I was one hundred percent aware of my mind in the situation. I was not quite sure or even asking at this point, where was I or why am I here? I was there, wherever there is.

Time, distance, and space as we know it acted different. Movement was not limited as it is here in everyday life experience. For forty-five seconds I traveled what seemed like thousands of miles from my entry point and had an experience like no conscious moment on earth or remembrance of any state of mind or any dreams I have ever experienced. This was totally new and real. This was a transition into another realm. As my heart stopped, I passed out on the table. I immediately regained awareness on and in this new plane of existence.

The visual area was a combination of massive space and definitive location. To explain: I saw a tunnel from the outside as I was floating in space from several thousand feet above it. The space all around me was the color of a warm soft sky blue. There where wisps of soft white light moving within my visual range and far off in the distance. The tunnel appeared as translucent blue and white and it seemed as though I could look through it.

The tunnel opening was below me yet the tunnel itself flowed up and way above my visual plane and merged into a beautiful blue and white light where everything came together. It was the most incredible view I have ever seen in my life. I could feel this area around me and it seemed comforting and safe. As I looked at the tunnel entrance, I moved at the speed of thought immediately to the opening of this tunnel. I think more, I was drawn to it by nature or fate as if I knew what to do.

Just to note, with no loss for the incredible beauty of the experience, the colors, peace of mind, painless and comforting feeling experienced in this event I will not try to describe, they were incredible. I know I will struggle to include every detail, which is impossible to do.

The tunnel was large with soft rounded edges flowing into it. It was soft blue in color, not claustrophobic but warm and comforting, inviting. As I entered the space around the entrance, I floated in and started to move forward. I began to see events appearing along the surface of the tunnel, like a million large screen TV's, or panels lining the walls but that is poor description as to what I really experienced. The events seemed to surround me from all sides. I felt at first without realization, some connection to these events.

Within a few seconds, I realized it was my life, memories, and events that only I would understand and put meaning to. The color and clarity where exactly as I had remembered them. These memories and events where passing through my mind with incredible visual perspective, each was alive and in absolute detail and I could touch and feel them all at the same time. During all this I was moving further through the tunnel and up towards a merging of the surrounding blue and white light. This was or had been my existence, as if all of my being and soul were there and connected at one great moment.

I was distracted for just a moment. I observed an event with my son in it and it caught my attention. I was able to slow my movement through the tunnel long enough stop and see him; it was his birthday. It may have been his seventh birthday - all there in absolute detail. I floated out of the event with my son and back into the tunnel. My passage seemed to move more rapidly after this and I stopped trying to hold on to every memory as it went by.

I still to this point had not thought about what was going on. What was happening to me was so wonderful it consumed me. I had not thought of the purpose or reason I was experiencing this. It was at that moment in time I had a brief pause in my thoughts away from the passing events and then I realized very clearly, I had died. No event in my life has ever been so clear to me. This experience was exact, with meaning and purpose.

This was natural order. My body had or was well in the process of dying. I do not want to sound harsh by saying this. No events in my awakening state of mind have ever reached this level of conscious awareness.

I briefly remembered the emergency room and that something had gone wrong but it did not matter.

It was the most profound moment of my life. Very emotional for me to admit. I was not of my body any longer. I was of my soul. I was not frightened, I was resolved with my life and very content.

As I was thinking all of this, I was moving fast and gaining speed moving up through the tunnel towards a brighter blue/white light. The light was so beautiful it is impossible to describe in human terms. I had the feeling I was a very long way away from the reality I had previously been existing in and going with purpose on this journey. I wanted to keep going. That scares me a little. But I heard someone calling my name and I responded to that voice, my movement slowed down and as I turned my thoughts towards the voice my direction reversed and I moved again with incredible speed back along the tunnel to its entrance. This was not my decision. I woke up in the emergency room into a three dimensional space - disappointing. I had not had a heartbeat for forty-five seconds and I felt as though I had come back from a very long distance to awake in my body.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'July 17, 2006'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         bradycardia and electrical arrest with a systole for 45 seconds. Heart failure!  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My heart had failed in the emergency room.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As I have said, I experienced 'existing' in a multi-dimensional plane. Even though this new experience had these new elements, they felt normal. The experience seemed a hundred times clearer in thought than everyday life.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From start to finish. But when I realized I had died, it was the most conscious moment of my existence.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Everything moved at great speed. As I said before, the space around me mixed with my thoughts and feelings to create a multidimensional environment. I felt as if I was part of the dimension.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Seemed to function as normal but I was not in my body. I never felt my head turn to look, yet I could see a lot more at one time. This is hard to explain - sorry.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I never remember hearing any sounds. Odd, but I did not miss my hearing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See the narrative above.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Along the tunnel, I saw my son, but it was more of a memory, a multidimensional memory. He is still alive and fine. No spoken communications.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   All around, but brighter above my relative plane.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The tunnel was for me the big event. To see all my memories as I passed through it. Once in the tunnel the added dimesional aspect seemed normal. My thoughts moving at light speed seemed normal. My visions, memories and feelings  took hold and held me in a state of wonder.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt very safe. I felt love all around me. I felt resolve when I thought I had died and was not coming back. I felt guilty because I wanted to keep going.  DO NOT read that last statement the wrong way. I love my life and want to stay around until I fall apart. But something made me feel that it was okay and not to worry that all was fine. I feel as if I gave in to that feeling.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     I must have seen thousands of events passing at the speed of light yet each one I recognized and thought about. Did it change me? I always believed in life after death, it is nice to be right every once in a while.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Methodist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel closer to God and church.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Methodist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel closer to God and church.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The multiple dimensions, the speed at which my thoughts took place and the speed at which I could move.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The realization of my death. It is hard to explain. At one single moment in this experience, I fully understood my death was happening and I accepted it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my wife within hours. Most of my friends consider me a smart person. I told a lot of them, they believe me and many asked interesting questions about the experience and wanted to learn from it. Most have gained comfort from my experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The intensity of the event has worn down but not the memory. If you want to know if I still think it was real, the answer is yes. The hard part is what to do with this information. Do you tell everyone about life after death and say don't worry it will be okay. I think that was Jesus' job. The guilt comes in not saying something. Think of those who are dying, what if you could pass the message on. I'm working on it. No answers yet.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above, it's included.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1benny_m_nde.html