{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1benjamin_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Benjamin W NDE 694\/2152","mylang":"de"}
          	        Benjamin W NDE 694/2152  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Benjamin W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						220  Benjamin W NDE  694/2152  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description 3/19/2003:    

I had been to a retreat up in North Carolina the week before and was coming home on Friday afternoon. There were many hills and as I came over one I saw this big cloud, not thinking much about it I drove on along with the other cars and we all drove under the cloud. The cloud fell on us all and the wreck started.

I remember trying to steer my truck off into the median and that is all I remember until I was in this place lying flat kind of levitating in the air. There was a boundary. My legs, arms, and face started going into the boundary.  Just over there, was this real white light.  As I started through the boundary into the light these whites balls of light started coming at me they would get real close and kind of bust open like cotton balls except they were light balls I remember feeling very calm and not afraid at all I was ready to go on.  The next thing, I heard this voice It was the voice of a small child. The child said, 'We got to get out of here.'

Where I was at was wonderful compared to where I came back to? I came back to my truck, which by now was on fire I was pinned in with the steering wheel and dash on my legs my left leg was pinned between the door and the seat, and I was bleeding badly from my head. Anyway, somehow with the help of I believe an Angel. I got out, my truck burnt up. So this has been kind of hard I'll close I have a closed Head Injury. 

Background Information:    

Gender:    Male  

Date NDE Occurred:    9/14/1988  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was the ninth car in a 17 car and truck wreck.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  For a time I was not with my body.    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconsciousness    

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?     It felt like there was no time there.  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     My legs face and arms went into the light.  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I heard a child.    

The experience included:      Light  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   White light with balls of light coming at me and bursting open.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I went into a wonderful place of complete understanding with white light.    

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Unconditional Love for the world.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No       

The experience included:      Boundary  

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   When I heard the little child say we got to get out of here.    

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It was hard to express for a while  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     My hands had this warmness about them and when I thought about them they would warm up more.    

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was being in the light and the worst was coming back.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They say I'm a Miracle.    

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Not now.  

      
    		
            		Experience Description Experience Description  (2152) 3/13/2005:   

                   I was coming home from a week long retreat in the mountains of North Carolina. It was Friday afternoon and I left around 130pm. I stopped at a rest area and stretch for awhile and went on my way. I drove through South Carolina and on into Calhoun County on I-26. It was hilly and there was not a cloud in the sky, I came over a hill and there was a large cloud I thought it was strange and I would check it out as I got to it. I came over another hill and under a overpass and started up the hill and the cloud was over the road, I could not see where it came from but drove on. The cloud was over all the cars and trucks when it fell to the ground.

I had no vision of what was happening, I remember steering my truck to the left and felt my left front tire fall of the road and crash, the next thing I remember I was in another place.  There was a veil like or boundary there I was laying in the air right next to the veil, I could see into the veil. It felt like I was laying with my head to the west.

Looking into the veil I could see bright light and in the light there were little lights coming at me as they got closer they got bigger and when they got to me they exploded into something that I can't explain, I felt the energy from them, from it all it was like complete understanding, no judgment, bigger than Love. I began to move my legs into the boundary and then my arms, I felt I was going to the energy, then I heard a voice, the voice of a child.  The voice said, 'We got to get out of here,' when 'here' was gone, I was back in the truck.

Everything was a mess I was slumped over in the seat the steering wheel was on my legs the dash was caved in on me, I raised my head forward and everything seemed to be in slow motion there was blood everywhere and my truck was on fire I couldn't move my legs I placed my hands on the bottom of the steering wheel and it came up enough for me to swing my legs around into the seat, my head was laying on the arm rest and I pushed with my leg and my head and got my shoulders into the window I push again and out I went. I don't remember hitting the ground.

The rest of the story is vague, I was in and out of it for several days in the hosp. People told me about the rest of the story, The wreck, there was 17 vehicle in it and 9 burnt 4 people died. For the longest time I had a feeling of heat in my hands and can still bring it if I think about it much. I have no fear of dying.  It is living I struggle with now. I keep wondering if there's something I need to do with this, how to use it in my life, before its to late, before I go back to the light. So there it is I am open to any feed back, and Thank you for you time. Blessing, Benjamin

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9/14/1988  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Wreck  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was no need to explain, I felt whole enough.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt when I was next to the boundary I was at a high level of something. When I came back into the truck it was real hard to be.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   It felt like there was no time, and I am not sure of that.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was bright white.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     My legs and arms pass through the boundary.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     It felt like the balls of light were something and I am not sure    

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright light with little balls of light coming at me.    

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     there was a boundery of energy and light my legs and arms went into it.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Understanding, no judgment, Love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am not sure that I believe all of what I was taught and very little of what I hear these days about religious beliefs.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am not sure that I believe all of what I was taught and very little of what I hear these days about religious beliefs.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   That this place where I went was not what I had been taught it would be, and it was hard to explain it to people.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am short on patience some times. I am isolated and become depressed.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Being so real, words really don't come close.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had this feeling of heat in my hands.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being so near the boundary the light the energy and coming back.    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some at first, and then I tried to stop thinking about it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's been many years and its still as much of my reality as the day it happen.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1benjamin_w_nde.html