{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1benjamin_f_ndes.html","mytitle":"Benjamin F NDEs 7847","mylang":"de"}
          	        Benjamin F NDEs 7847  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Benjamin F NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			4057 Benjamin F NDEs 7847  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					While drowning at the age of 3 in Africa, the feelings of panic and pain of the lungs filling with water, was followed by a sensation of a pleasant void and being 'carried'. Immediately after this drowning, I felt the painful sensation of having to live, yet feeling lucky and 'chosen.' Curiosity and the sciences of observation immediately headed towards all aspects of death, natural, artificial, criminal or morbid. I feel that an omnipresent  positivism as well as an immense self confidence have devised my whole life. An immense empathy, search for causality as of youngest age and help for others followed naturally.

The second NDE was an attack that caused the loss of 3 liters of blood at junior high school.  I continued to hemorrhage before the arrival of help.  I was left with only one choice and that was to 'go' without too much regret, even though my life was extremely balanced.  My last intentions and moves were confident, without demagogy or hate. I was writing on walls with my blood, thinking that this was the end.  Yet because of my earlier experience at age 3, I felt calm and serene with confidence in facing the end. The action to 'present myself' about my personal life to those that I left behind was done. There was no drudge or bitterness resulting from this event. This second experience with death was accepted as something banal and premature, but mostly banal.

From these experiences there remained no hate nor mistrust. As the first experience happened as a toddler, I obtained an immense maturity and an external view on the world of established truths.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981+1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident  Drowning. Criminal attack.       Other Noyade estimée à la mort clinique puis agression menant à un etat d'etre laissé pour mort  Drowning with estimated clinical death; then an attack leading to a state where people left me for dead.  The country was in a religious war at the time of drowning.  The second time I was assaulted by a school enemy.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      While drowning, it was the respiratory and cardiac arrest that opened me up for a world of questions fulfilled with answers. During the attack, the attack itself put me into a state of quasi-prophetic knowledge.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       No memory at all.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Darkness and lights.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Silence

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Esoteric, magic, revealing, sensations of secrets and of answers, and other words unknown to mortals or any living being.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     During the first experience, it seemed to me that I was losing everything, and that I had to do good, before 'leaving definitely'. At my second experience, it seemed to me that I was ready to go.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     During my second experience, I 'concluded' about the arrival of the doctors.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I don't understand the question.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   While drowning, it seemed that I was naturally accepted by the nature of the stars. When attacked, it seemed that I was again accepted by a kind of barrier that let me free to continue my life the way I started it.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Consistent with the fact, that the spirit stays immortal. Not consistent, such as there is no glory in being dead.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The fact that terrestrial life is mean and petty.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     La notion que une 'predestination' nous laisse simplement choisir un certain temps sur la terre

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     It is good to be humble and I was 'warned' that nothing is easy and that I have to fight at all times.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Life is persisting as only the soul, in floating in space and universe.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Knowledge of the stars.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     See #36

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love seems to fill all the space of the universe, such as the 'ether' of the ancients.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       The certainty to do good like an angel

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The feeling that sharing is necessarily moral and ethical  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience less accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    A feeling of accepting all laws of physics.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact to feel yourself unique and judged

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Terrestrial life is becoming just a tiny stage and not finiteness.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Perceptions and senses have developed

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The fact of being interested about this esoteric 'well-being' of others. The fact that persons having not yet lost everything are impure, as they are egoistical and are connected by a same immoral and imperfect bond.  They cannot see of others qualities, due to their own imperfections. I get back to these experiences each time that I feel well.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Ask if NDErs have social problems following this adventure.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1benjamin_f_ndes.html