{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1benita_h_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Benita H Possible NDE 6916","mylang":"de"}
          	        Benita H Possible NDE 6916  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Benita H Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3467 Benita H Possible NDE 6916  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had gallbladder surgery in 1984. The surgery went as it should. When I came home from the hospital, I didn't have a bowel movement for days. I really don't remember exactly how long but it was close to a week. One night I started hurting really bad. My mom came over, and my whole family showed up. I was in so much pain. My husband at that time was with me also. My husband called the doctor and it took hours for the doctor to get back to us. I took two ex-lax, the little chocolate squares, to try to use the bathroom. That only made the pain hurt worse. I was on pain medication for the pain from the surgery but it wasn't helping with the pain at all. The doctor finally called back and told my husband to double my pain medication until he could call in a suppository the next morning to help me use the bathroom. I took the extra pills and I fell asleep. 

The next thing I knew, I was awake. I was confused because I could see my husband and myself lying in the bed asleep. I realized I was lying on the ceiling. At first, I was scared but then it became a peaceful feeling. I wasn't hurting at all. I was trying to wake my husband up but my body in the bed would not move. I could move on the ceiling. I was looking all around the room. There was nobody else there. It was calming, serene. I didn't know what was happening. I don't know how long I stayed on the ceiling. 

The next thing I knew, I woke up. I was hurting again. I remembered what happened during the night but I was confused. I wished I could go back there because I didn't hurt and because it was so peaceful! I didn't tell anybody about what happened. I had never heard of anything like that. I knew nobody would believe me. If only everybody could experience what I did, they would know that there is another life after death and that it is a calming, peaceful, happy place. I know that this place is Heaven with God our Father. It was just not my time to be with Him. 

I finally overheard someone talking about the outer body experience movie by Shirley McClain. I couldn't wait to find the movie. Then I did a lot of research and for people that do not believe in the afterlife and near death experiences, it just makes me so angry because I know it is true, because it happened to me!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-relatedDrug or medication overdose    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I do remember hearing my husband breathing, I could see us sleeping. I so wish there were more going on in that room that night because I do know that I would have seen it all!  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was completely conscious and alert when I was on the ceiling looking down at my husband and me in the bed. I was NOT dreaming. I was totally awake!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It seems as though when I was on the ceiling I was seeing everything more clearly, as though you take everything you see for granted, but at that time I was more aware of everything. The two bodies lying in the bed, one of them being mine was just clear, even though it was nighttime and there were no lights on in the house. I have never thought about the light situation before!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything; just my thoughts about trying to move my body so that I could get my husband to awaken me. I could move all I wanted to on the ceiling. I do remember hearing my husband breathing, I have never thought about that before.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My husband and I lying in bed together.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first I was scared and confused. Then a peaceful feeling came over me, like amazement. Calm, serene.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I also knew that God existed, but now I KNOW that GOD is with us and waiting on us.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I did not believe or know that the soul could leave the body and return.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know that when you die it is going to be amazing.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I know what it is going to be like as I leave my body when I die. It will not be scary. I took care of my mom and dad when they passed. As they were leaving their body, I was not scared for them. I knew that they were at peace and happy. The painful part

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     If you leave your body and are on the ceiling, there has to be a mystical universe out there and it is God.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The kind of peace that I felt is like nothing you can feel here on this earth. It had to be a heavenly peace. How do you get out of your body like that? It has to be your soul. I believe this is what happens when you die, I am not afraid of dying. Everybody that knows me knows that.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I believe mine is to help others, I have helped a lot of family members who were dying to try to be at peace.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     It meant that it was not my time to go, that  I had other things left to do. That thing is taking care of other people.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Only God can give you the peaceful feeling that you feel when you are not in your body. How do you get out of

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Be careful taking medication of any kind because it is very dangerous and will kill you.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     To love others, because you never know how long they will be here.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. I have become involved in wanting to help others any way I can, especially the older I get. I became an Emergency Medical Technician so that I could possibly just save one life so that my life would have meaning. Now 30 years later I am trying to get my nursing degree because life events kept me from doing so sooner.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I don't take relationships for granted and I don't like being around people that drink and do drugs. I just try to let them know that it is not a good thing to do. I am still scared of medications. Not because I am scared to die, but because I want to be here on earth as long as I can be.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I did not talk about or tell anybody about my experience for many years. Not until I could understand it myself.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I don't remember a lot of stuff that happened almost 30 years ago, but I remember this experience as if it was yesterday.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first shared with a friend I meet at work because she believed in strange things, for a lack of better words. She had watched the Shirley McClain movie and was telling me about it. Months later, I told her my story. It was probably 10 years or more after the experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so vivid. There was no way that you could believe it wasn't real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Still vivid to this day!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I highly express to everyone that drugs are a bad thing, only use them as the doctor says and sometimes that can be deadly also, as I found out.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1benita_h_possible_nde.html