{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1benilda_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Benilda K NDE 854","mylang":"de"}
          	        Benilda K NDE 854  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Benilda K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						343  Benilda K NDE  854  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in the hospital to deliver my first child. In the labor room, the nurse examined me.  She told me that my blood pressure was too high and that I needed to take the medication for my blood pressure. The hospital didn't have the medication. My husband went out from the hospital to buy it. While my husband was gone the whole night, I was having an intense labor pain. There wasn't anyone but me in the labor room, no one to comfort me in my pain. Morning came and I was so exhausted and still in so much pain. Finally, the doctor came and checked me. It was obvious in her face that something was not right.


She immediately called the nurses and told me that I need to push so I can deliver my baby. But no matter how hard I pushed, my baby wasn't coming out. The labor process continued for at least thirty more minutes. There was more concern on the face of my doctor. She told me that I needed to do one more last push and if the baby won't come out, I would be delivering my baby by c'sarian section. Well, my bouncing baby boy was delivered. After my baby's delivery, I was feeling nauseated and my head was like ready to explode.  I was feeling so numb and very weak. They moved me to the recovery room. My blood pressure was checked again and I was told that I needed to take my blood pressure medication because the blood pressure was not going down. My husband was not back yet with my medication.


The nurse left and my vision was turning yellow, then gray - all of the sudden it was black.  Then the strangest thing was happening - I felt my body so still, I felt part of me lifting out and I was feeling myself starting to move. I was standing and it was velvet black, I started to make a step, then there was this light from up above, I was watching the light.  It was dim and it was getting a little bit brighter and was so beautiful, relaxing, the most comfortable time of my life was happening. I was feeling the presence of the most powerful being. I felt happiness and contentment. I started walking to the light and suddenly, I realized that I just had a baby.  I have not seen my baby.  I needed to see my baby.  My baby needed me.  I needed to go back.  It was like all the things that were in my mind was my conversation to God.


I woke up coughing, gasping and so, thirsty. My sister was on my hospital bed, crying, and told me I was dead.  She called for the nurse; then there was my husband, he finally brought my medication. I told them what happened after a week. There was a time that I shared my story to some of my friends but it seems like I sounded crazy to them. I never talk to anyone about this anymore sometimes it is wonderful to possess special abilities and sometimes it is very scary.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    September 12, 1976

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth  eclampsia, complication during child birth   eclampsia, coplication during child birth deliveryMy blood pressure went extremely high (200/122).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was the same but very light and I was wearing a white cotton gown.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Very dim and then there was intensity of light and very soothing.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was very dark, but I know I was on the ground but in a different dimension.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt that I needed to come back because my baby needed me and I did not get the chance to see him.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Many times I see things that will happen or I will have very vivid dreams of what is going to happen. I do not choose it to happen but it will just come and sometimes I get scared.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I was scared that I would not be able to see my baby if I died. I didn't want him to grow up without a mother.  I knew that there is someone above for us.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I was crazy!! Except my sister who was with me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   The other event is that one of my children has the same special ability, like mine.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I wonder what is this really all about. Sometimes I ask myself if I'm the only one in this world who had this experience.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1benilda_k_nde.html