{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ben_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Ben M NDE 4769","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ben M NDE 4769  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ben M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2417 Ben M NDE 4769  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having an angiogram. This was my twelfth one so I was not nervous or concerned at all as far as the procedure was concerned. I was laying down on the procedure table flat on my back. There were I believe about five medical personnel and the doctor around me. The room was bright and there was a lot of medical equipment hanging above including an x-ray head that was mobile on an arm and a bank of monitors. The doctor had already made an incision in my groin, inserted a cable/catheter into my veins, and had snaked it up and into my heart. I was awake and watching the monitor waiting for him to shoot the dye in that would show the blood flowing through my arteries when I found myself standing up and feeling strong and normal with no drugs or weakness from my bad heart.

All around me was light that cannot be described properly with words. It was good and warm but not like heat. It was thick and textured but not like fog or smoke. I started to understand and my mind was clearing when I began to move forward toward what seemed to be an outline of something ahead very hard to describe; not really clear. Then I found myself back lying down with a male nurse slapping my cheek and asking me if I was okay. He then asked, 'Did you see anything?' I was overwhelmed with the experience and answered with, 'I just had a dream.'

I was down for many minutes and they had to use a crash cart and shock my heart back. I know I was gone and I know that as simple as this seems it was a profound event for me.  The feeling that was in the light and the nature of it is, well, very hard to describe, and I was so awake, strong, and alive. Also it lasted for a long time it seemed to me and again as simple as it sounds each moment was rich with experience and feeling but feeling is not the right word.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Sept. 2008
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related  Heart stopped during an angiogram requiring a crash cart to revive  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I have a bad heart, was having an angiogram, and my heart stopped during the procedure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Most of the time only in the first few moments was there any confusion.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was different not linear.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Even though I could not see anything but the light around me and the outline of symmetrical shapes ahead. I sensed I could see forever, in a way it was the light that blocked seeing more.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There were no sounds but I know I could hear great.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Described above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was someplace very special but not my time

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Concern, excitement, peace, strength, love, warmth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     There was something ahead, something amazing.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Mormon

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel a compelling need to be a part of life.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Mormon

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel a compelling need to be a part of life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The light that surrounded me was somehow real or a texture or alive but not exactly difficult to describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     A greater ability to cope with a very difficult situation.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was for me and not for everyone, it was just enough to help me manage my life better and what I seemed to need. Most of the good of this experience is coming only after several years have passed. I questioned the existence of an afterlife prior to this event only now do I believe we live on after death it was real.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     So profound it was hard to speak about.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ben_m_nde.html