{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bella_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Bella K  NDE 6148  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tNDE due to carbon monoxide poisoning.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bella K  NDE 6148  		  		  		  		  		NDE due to carbon monoxide poisoning.</span>">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bella K  NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2919 Bella K  NDE 6148  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					All I can remember is music that was kind of in the back ground that was almost like notes within notes. The song that reminds me of it the most is 'The Carol of the Bells.' I remember feeling very peaceful. I was sitting at a very plain wooden table and there was white all around the man, who was Jesus, who sat next to me. I remember feeling a sense of total love. There was no judgment, only pure love and I felt so good in his presence. I remember we were talking without using words. I would look into his eyes and find all the answers I was searching for.

I remember expressing to him my confusion about the holy trinity and I remember his answer, somewhat. Maybe I remember the feeling of his answer would be the best way to describe it. I remember feeling very peaceful, as if I would be happy never having to leave. 

The next thing I remember is my cousin straddling my chest with my shirt bunched in her hands, her face contorted in worry saying, 'Get up, get up; you cannot die in my house! Get up!' I was completely confused as to why she was there and what she was doing. It was so sudden.  I was sitting with Jesus one second and then my cousin on top of me trying to get me up. I then remember that she drug me up the stairs and threw me out the side door and I landed in the yard and realized at that point that it seemed it was the first time I had taken a breath. Gasping for breath as if I weren't breathing at all before, yet I didn't feel the stress of that before I was outside. After some time we went back in the house, opened all the windows and tried to figure out what to do. We were so confused we never even called the fire department. We called my dad who told us we were lucky not to have been blown to high hell and he made sure we turned it off. I called the doctor who said I would be fine (I am not sure why he said that) but I did have to get medical treatment and had the most horrid cough for weeks (it was so bad that I would lay on the bathroom floor and wish for death since I could hardly breathe).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Spring of 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Carbon monoxide poisoning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I say that only because I have never before or since spoke with anyone using telepathy.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think I was amazed at being with Jesus and having this conversation that wasn't really a conversation. We just communicated more by telepathy. I remember getting so many answers but I don't remember all what we 'talked' about.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     There seemed to be no measure of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was fine. Communicating without words and looking into his eyes and finding answers, was almost like watching a movie.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I really don't think that there was a difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were singing softly in the background, energy of colors yet I felt as though I sensed my great grandfather who I had never met.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was not the same light we have here brighter maybe without hurting.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete love

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     But I cannot remember other than having that feeling!

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   All I remember was feeling sad and confused when I came awake.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- New age   I was raised Catholic, however, had more questions than answers. I was looking for truth everywhere. Very adement about not returning to the Catholic faith (to this day). I was not sure about Jesus. I believe that what I felt that perhaps he was a wise man who had lived, not necessarily the messiah. We are ALL sons and daughters of God.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     My beliefs have changed, yet I cry so much when in church and don't know why, I should be happy!

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Right now I belong to a very open church that is beautiful. Fundamentally Christian. I still ponder new age type beliefs.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Jesus was a learned man, not an unearthly being. I would have expected to actually visually see my deceased love ones. again, so much really was based on visual as well as feelings.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe that Jesus plays a much more important role in our lives than previously thought.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   Singing.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   As described above Jesus. I and I was very surprised since I didnt think of him as a messiah but more of a very learned man fr his time. A man of peace. I feel differently since.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     everything existed in love.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I believe that jesus is more than a learned man who had walked this earth. I do NOT believe in the gloom of doom of punishment, at least not in any earthly terms.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   Only the feeling that we all have a purpose and that we all return to a prior state of love.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     again, there was much expressed but I cannot remember.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt past relatives energy and of course, i was talking face to face with Jesus.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I was being shared information and felt very much at peace.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is the root of all. it is the alpha and the omega.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I seem way more sensitive to others. I can connect more easily and feel things I would rather not.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I would like to think I am becoming more spiritual, more connected with others.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Only that I can't seem to remember what was so important. Or maybe I was only meant to remember certain things like the feeling of overwhelming love.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   it is simply a very different experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I was always a feeling person. I think more so now. Sometimes more confused now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of love like I have never known. The visions that were shown to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My cousin knows and, since then, I have told others I am comfortable around. The reaction has been positive.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I heard that people experienced it.  Mine, however, didn't seem quite the same. I don't think it affected my experience. Maybe it was different from what I had heard since that was proof that it was MY experience and not the same as others.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so vivid, so real I never discounted that it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have not had the same thing before or since.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bella_k_nde.html