{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bella_f_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Bella F Possible NDE 7660","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bella F Possible NDE 7660  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bella F Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3935 Bella F Possible NDE 7660  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I instantly found myself in absolutely real a place. I have no words to express all I saw and heard. I knew all; I knew why life, and why grief.  But the knowledge is all gone because maybe a human mind cannot contain such amount of knowledge.  In this regard, maybe forgetting is a way to safeguard us.  The body I was in was quite similar to the human one, but incredibly powerful.  Coming back was terrible, as if they were locking me into a can, I cried for hours. Then, for some time, I have been euphoric. I wanted to tell anybody that death does not exist, rather the contrary: it's wonderful, and everybody was looking at me as if I were a mad-woman. I didn't tell anybody anything anymore for decades.  I just read all I could find and I discovered it wasn't just me. It was so very beautiful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related While under general anesthesia.      Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Very present, lucid and awake.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout the whole experience

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is not time and no space: all happens at once.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Much, much, much more

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Much stronger

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember this

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A white light very strong but it didn't hurt: it was made of love

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I had in mind a desert island and as I thought of it I was in it and I immediately saw everything, I was right there. After that I didn't think any more about my island for what was in that place was much, much more.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness, love, infinite satisfaction for knowledge

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew everything, I had a mind that knew everything and could contain everything.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I quit church I felt they have told us a lot of small stories as if we were kids.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was 25 and rather selfish, this experience made me realize what truly matters in life.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Certainly in a positive manner

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     ho avuto flesch di eventi che non facevano parte di questa vita

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I had a feeling we are all connected

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I had the impression we ourselves, inclusive of plants and animals, are God.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only love and knowledge matter, all the rest are minor things.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I had the neat impression that in my life the only thing that mattered was love for all things.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is no other option

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant"

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     To learn

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I had the neat impression that in my life the only thing that mattered was love for all things [Translator's note: duplicate in the original]

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     As said above

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       The most beautiful present     The most beautiful present

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I let others live their lives as they wish, occasionally we meet and then anyone lives its own, if somebody needs my help I will be available, no matter whether a friend or a stranger.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   There are no terms to express, for instance, the light, sounds, sensations.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.   I remember precisely all that happened as if it occurred yesterday.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     A kind of empathy

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything has a value

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    I felt the urge to tell anybody I met, I was living on a cloud of my own, then, realizing nobody believed me, I never told anybody anymore.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I had a few more experiences of leaving my body practicing Hatha Yoga but nothing compares to this.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bella_f_possible_nde.html