{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1belinda_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Belinda K NDE 8071","mylang":"de"}
          	        Belinda K NDE 8071  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Belinda K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4203 Belinda K NDE 8071  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was young, I had a near death experience. It is what happened after this, which is otherworldly. Since then I received gifts, which I only realized much later in life. Many non-earthly things happened to me since, that were supernatural because I don’t know how to explain it. Below is 1% of my story. I only told a few people about this experience, the ones that were shown to me. I kept quiet about it until my mid-twenties. I am Afrikaans speaking so please excuse my grammar. I got a sign to share this with you, and hope you can bear to read it all. 

 I was 9 years old, and went to our neighbors’ house to play.  This was a normal thing and they loved the company. They were not home. I had a fig in my hand.  I have no idea why, but I went and stood in front of the dog and wanted to give the fig to him. The next moment, he jumped towards me.  I was surprised, but thought that he can’t reach me since I stood where he normally can’t reach. Everything felt like slow motion after that.  I can remember moment by moment. 

 I remember the dog jumping up towards my face.  He grabbed me on my cheek and dragged me down. He was on top of me and bit me nonstop. I felt like a rag doll. During this process, I never felt pain. I could not understand why it happened since he was never aggressive before. Later I found out he had rabies and the owners did not want to put him down. After he bit me on my cheek, he went to my neck, and bit off a piece of my skin.  After that, I thought about the fact that I will certainly die if I do not do something. In this time, my niece and her friend who was 18 years old came running towards me. They both tried to pull the dog off me but they could not get it right. Then they ran away.  I felt afraid when they ran away and I could not understand why they left me. Afterwards, I found out they left to get help from my parents. 
 
 Then he bit off a piece from my cheek and he chewed it on top of me. While he was busy eating a piece of my cheek, I then knew it is now or never, since I just knew the next bite will be my neck and I will then die. I heard a voice tell me to kick him. (It was not the normal voice one hears when you talk to yourself. It was an otherworldly voice.) I then kicked the dog, and that was the first supernatural thing that happened to me. I saw him travelling meters through the air. So far that I thought, not even a grown up person can kick something that high. I stood up, felt fine and no pain at all.  I started walking back to my parent’s house. As I went around the corner of the neighbors’ house, I saw my whole family come running towards me. I saw my mum, aunt, niece, and her friend who tried to get the dog off me.  I saw my dad with a shotgun in his hand, and I saw panic on their faces. Everything was slow motion, as they came towards me, I told them I was fine. My mom fainted and then my aunt fainted.  I could not understand why they were all in such a state since I felt fine. I remember their stunned faces and big eyes.  Everyone else just stood still. I wanted to see why they were behaving like that and then decided to go to the mirror in my room. I walked calmly past them. 
 
 Since that second, I can only describe the moments; I do not know what happened in between. The first moment I had was standing in front of the mirror in my room. Everyone was shouting and crying. I still remember my mom gave my sister and I each a blouse as a present the morning of the previous day. I was worried that there would be blood on my new blouse. So in this first moment, I saw myself in the mirror and I immediately looked at my blouse.  There was blood everywhere. I felt sad about it, and wondered if my mom would be able to wash out the stain. I then looked at my face, but there was mist where my face was. So I moved my head, left and right, but no matter how I moved it, the mist followed. I asked my mom if she can see the mist, and asked her why I cannot see my face. I was talking as if nothing happened. 
 
 The second moment: We stayed in a small town that was about a 30-minute drive from the nearest hospital. I was lying in the back seat with my head on the local nurse's lap, lying on my mom. My mom was crying and shouting, 'My child, my child.' Then I heard the nurse telling my mom to keep me awake, otherwise I will die.  I thought that I must try to stay awake since I do not want to die. I looked to the front. My uncle was driving and he looked back to me. I saw his wild eyes. As he looked, he drove off the road, but recovered.  Then I must have passed out again. 
 
 The third moment: I was lying on the theatre table; it was very cold beneath me. I looked up and saw the doctor’s masks above me. They had green clothes and a white mask. 
 
 Then the fourth moment: I woke up again, but was in the air and looked down.  I saw the doctor's heads from behind.  Their hair was sticking out from the way the masks were tied up behind their heads. I looked further down, and I saw myself lying on a silver table. I understood why it was so cold. Although, I couldn’t understand why I could see myself. I hung above myself and saw the doctors trying to revive me. I then thought that I must be dead, and was worried about my mom. As I thought that, in a millionth of a second, I appeared above my mom in the passage. She was walking back and forth, crying nonstop, murmuring, 'My child, my child.' She had a pink tissue pressed against her nose. I told her that I am fine, but she did not hear me. I felt so powerless. I still kept on talking to her, but she did not hear me. Then the doctor came and he told her something.  She shouted and cried while almost fainting. 
 
 I then wondered: where am I going now? As I thought that, in a millionth of a second, I went up a tunnel.  It started out black and as I went up, it got lighter and lighter. It looked like in slow motion, left and right, and saw that it was light streaks, getting brighter and brighter. I knew I was travelling so fast, as if such a speed cannot exist. Up until today, I believe that this is from where my need for speed comes. Then it was completely white. Everything looked like clouds when I was on top, as if I was drifting in the clouds. 
 
 Again, I thought what will happen now? Then as I thought it, again, that it felt like a millionth of a second, I saw seven golden doors. Each one was as big as the Twin Towers. On the golden doors, there were rubies, diamonds, and all the precious stones, each one as big as a house. I saw all the different colors, green, red… My whole life I’ve been chasing the meaning of these doors. 
 
 The doors were so big it took me forever to try to see where they ended. As I looked up to the doors, it was the first moment that I felt panic, because I did not know which door to enter. But it was short lived since as I thought that, in a millionth of a second again, a Light appeared on my left hand side at the edge of the clouds.  I automatically was gliding that way, with no effort. It felt nice. 
 
 This moment, I will never be able to describe to anyone. I never felt so much love, and each cell in my body was filled with this wonderful feeling. I almost felt like bursting of the wonderful loved feeling. Then the Light spoke to me, and I cannot remember anything that was said. All I remember is this. The Light told me 'It’s time,' and I asked, 'For what?'  The Light answered me, 'To go back.' But I did not want to go back, and I pleaded to stay. But The Light then gave me the reason why I must come back, which I cannot remember since coming back. It was a long reason; I remember at the end that The Light also told me that my Mom needs me. 
 
 From that second, I woke up.  It was the morning of the next day. I was lying in the hospital bed on my right hand side. I was facing the window and looked out.  I saw the green grass. But I never ever saw a green like that in my life. A green does not exist on this earth. I looked to my left, and my mom and Aunt Susan were by my side. I was filled with happiness and a feeling I cannot describe, fantastic to say the least. I felt Filled. My mom was crying and Aunt Susan was trying to calm her down. I then showed them the green grass, and asked them if they could also see how green it is. They must have thought I am on a high of the anesthesia. My Mom was crying murmured something about my face that will never look the same. From there on, I cannot remember a lot. 
 
 I do not know at what stage in my life I realized it, but three things that I know for certain.  I 'brought back' (1) Love, (2) Acceptance and (3) think like a child. After that moment, indescribable miracles happened in my life. Weird things that I cannot share with others since they will look at me funny. I can only share it with people that I have a deep connection.  I followed signs, as I call it, from that moment. I get shown signs and then react on it. It is normal for me. Without anyone telling me anything, I know deep down I must do it. 
 
 Another three major things that came back with me: One is dreams; I get dreams with meaning and must react immediately, otherwise I cannot rest. Even if a whole army / world stood against me, I know I must do it. The other thing is that I can read emotions on a level that other people will not understand. It is almost like seeing their whole life and knowing what they have been through; knowing what they are thinking and feeling…so deep. I even feel what they cannot admit to themselves. This thing, whatever you call it, caused me to know all but then I cannot verbalize it. Most of the time, it happens before I know it will. So it feels like I have to pretend the whole time, not to know.  The last thing is electrical interference. It was so hectic at a stage that I googled it a few years ago, and found that a professor did a study on this and they call it the SLIder effect. According to this professor, it normally happens to people who had near death experiences. The moment I read that, I stopped reading, yet again, since for some sort of reason, I step away whenever I hear about other people near death experiences. I do not understand why I never wanted to read about it, even though I experienced it myself. 
 
 I will give you one or two examples of each of above, but there are so many. 
 
 Dreams: Aunt Susan was by my mom’s side at the hospital bed when I came back from The Light. I loved her like my own mom. Years passed, and I think she was in her fifties, when I had a dream about her. I woke up and I knew I had to tell her to go to the doctor. No matter what, I must tell her she must go. This feeling was chasing me, so bad that I phoned my mom in the middle of the night, and asked her if Aunt Susan is ok. She told me yes, and I said that I had a dream that she must go to the doctor, but my mom was half-asleep and I guess she did not take it seriously. I immediately contacted Aunt Susan in the morning early, and asked her if she was feeling ok. She laughed and said yes, she does have a light flu but otherwise she is feeling perfect. I then begged her to go to the doctor. Aunt Susan was a tough woman. She stayed on an ostrich farm, and she would never go to a doctor if not really required. She must have felt the panic in my voice, and I made her promise to go same day. She was a woman who kept to her word, always. Even though it is completely out of her character, she went. The doctor did tests, and they found that she had cancer. It was so far spread that nothing could be done.  She basically had a month or two left according to the doctor. She moved in with her daughter since she did not want to die in the hospital. I spent every moment I could with her until the moment she passed over. She said her goodbyes before that and gave each one of us a present. She gave me candle, which her son had given to her. 
 
 (Her son passed away in an accident before her so it was really special to her.) I only have a few people who witnessed it but that candle does not shrink a lot. Over all these years, lighting it many times, it is now only half way. It is a small candle. I only lit it when I am really in a deep emotional level, and then I fell asleep and the next morning the candle is still burning and it is still on the same level. I’ve lit it many times and forgotten to blow it out.  In all these years, it is now only half way. Special people in my life have witnessed it. 
 
 The moment before aunt Susan passed away, I told her about my near death experience. I remember her face changing from fear to peace. I’ve been sent too many such moments, the last moment the person is on this earth. Each story is almost a miracle. Every time they pass away, I look up, as if I know where they are above and smile at them. Since I’ve been there and I know where they are. 
 
 As per my research regarding the electrical interference and the SLIder effect: 
 
 Whenever I felt highly emotional, mostly if a partner and I had a fight or if I felt like no one understood me, my laptop would stop working, lights in my house will blow out, everything electrical that I touched in that moment will stop working. I get that with street lamps whenever I feel really happy or really sad. I remember the one time I was driving with my friend and her son. They were being judgmental and it upset me so much that as far as we drove, the lights in the lamp poles went out. Then after we pass it, the light came on again. But not only did the lights go out, there were sparks coming down. It went on like that for about two kilometers. This was so incredible that my friend and her son stopped with what they were saying and could not believe it themselves. That was the first time I did research on this. I then experimented. Since it was a highly emotional time in my life, I got it right. I would lie in my bed, and get myself in a high emotional state, and then I would manipulate the lights and make them go on or off; I can vary this with different patterns, and then to make100 % sure, make different lights do different patterns. I then contacted my one friend who understands the signs I get, and she came to witness it. That is the only time in my life I played with any idea. 
 
 As I said above, the other 'thing' is feeling emotions and thoughts. The thing I bring back is too deep to discuss now, but with time, it almost feels like a curse even though it is for the best. 
 
 Why do I speak now?  I got a sign, as I call it. I am 42 years old now. Mostly my whole life, I have done everything to die without doing it myself since I wanted to go back. I like everything with speed and adrenaline to the limit, to chase that feeling. In that moment, I feel alive. I mostly feel extremely alone even though many people surround me. There is a sadness, depressed feeling that I have to fight almost daily. If someone told me to go on the Mars mission, I will not doubt it one second. I feel like I am not from this earth, and I long to go home. But these days, I long to be on earth as well and it is just as if I do not fit anywhere.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes           Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   A dog bit me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my mom in the passage while hanging above her.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I cannot explain it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was with the Light/God

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I feel that time can be bended after my experience.  Time does not exist as on earth.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I cannot remember prior since I was too young.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot remember prior since I was too young.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     As described above

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As described earlier

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As described earlier

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion when I saw myself from above on the table.  Sad when I saw my mom and she could not hear me.  Adrenalin rush when I was going up the tunnel.  Afraid in front of the golden doors since I did not know which one to enter.  The most wonderful feeling with the Light, which I am unable to express in words.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I feel that I understand everything and no one else can see or feel it.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     I think while we spoke this might have happened, but I cannot remember.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I get scenes of other people.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   The Light told me I must go back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I believe religion is earthly.  I believe in God, and not religion.  God is open to all religions.  People are like horses with blinkers.  They do not see the bigger picture.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do not believe in religion, I believe in God.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I believe in God, but not in religion

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     As described earlier

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I think completely different. Otherworldly

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   As described earlier

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I cannot put anything in a box after my experience.  Anything is possible

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     As described earlier

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     As described earlier… God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know the Light gave me a reason/purpose for why I must go back.  I cannot remember what.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I think while the Light spoke to me, many things were revealed, but I cannot remember.  But I know things were revealed.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was there, and I've seen it.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     As described earlier

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I think while the Light spoke to me, many things were revealed, but I cannot remember.  But I know things were revealed.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     As described earlier

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Miracles happening. Signs.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am much deeper.  Since I feel everything that others think, regarding emotions, I have to pretend to be 'stupid.' It is draining.    

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I will need a million words, after using all the words on earth, and it will still not be enough.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I can remember everything clearly, except the conversation with the Light.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Signs, Dreams, Electrical interference, Feeling other people's emotions

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I was with the Light

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    12 years later.  Only a few and only much later in life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was too young but I know that people who are scientists who believe it is a state of mind, is wrong.  I can see it in their eyes.  They did not see the Light yet.  They are chasing it; in the meantime, it is right in front of them.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     If the whole world is against me by saying it did not happen, I will stand up against the whole world.  I know it did.  Confirmation thereof is the miracle what happened after it.  Things that cannot be explained.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When I react on a sign, for example when I am sent to someone that is dying based on a sign I get, or if I get a dream of a person wanting to commit suicide, and react on it.  I get part of that feeling when I was with the Light.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Too many stories to add about miracles that happened afterwards.  Unexplainable miracles by following the signs.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, it was perfect.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1belinda_k_nde.html