{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1belazreg_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Belazreg H NDE 6304","mylang":"de"}
          	        Belazreg H NDE 6304  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Belazreg H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3069 Belazreg H NDE 6304  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself floating in a universe of nothingness. I was wearing clothes and I felt full of love, a love I cannot describe in words.  In my mind, there was no past and no future. I felt very well indeed! I could sense that there was someone, or some kind of being, behind me. This being turned me around without passing in front of me. I began to see myself through her eyes. I felt like she was communicating with me, and the message was, 'You are naive!' This is where the experience ended.  I don't remember coming back. I needed a year and a half in order to understand that the being behind me did not want to harm me. After all, it was she through whom I had seen myself.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  02.07.2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. While under general anesthesia    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Gas/Air embolism.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Never!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist!

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw myself through the eyes of the being behind me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I was in nothingness as if I were waiting for something. (This was how I saw myself through the eyes of the being behind me.)

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, it was magic!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim   j'etais musulmane non prtaiquante!

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray to Heaven to remain sane!

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   ma religion est plus de l'ordre de la conscience moral!

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     j'ai parler de mon expèriance a un imam, il m'a dit que c’était un djen qui ce trouvait derrière moi!bref sans compter l'ange de la mort et l'ange qui ecrit le mal que l'on a commis, je ne me reconnais plus dans cette religion,cette expèriance m'a faite mûrir je sais que les athée on vecus des choses similaire !

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I talked about my experience to an imam, and he told me that it was a jinn that was behind me!  Well, he didn't even mentioning the angel of death, the angel who writes what you did wrong. I don't feel keen on this religion anymore. This experience made me grow.  I know that atheists have had similar experiences!  So you don't have to believe any one certain thing for this to happen to you.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   It was a vision, or a presence, behind me. I did not see her but I saw myself 'through' her!

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     oui pour moi dieu existe mais je le vois comme une lumière ou une Energies!  je me pose des questions sur ce regard qui ce trouvait derrière moi , j'ai comme l'impression qu'il etait la pour moi ou qu'il fessait partit de moi!

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned that I have steps to go through on Earth before it is my time to enter the next dimension. This is just a feeling I have!

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     je pense que j'avais des étapes a affranchir c'est juste une intuition!

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     For me God exists, but I see him as a Light or Energy! I still wonder about the vision that was behind me, I feel like it was there for either me or part of me. Now I think more about moral questions. I believe that if any God exists, He is for everyone, even those who don't believe in Him. Indeed, for me, how we treat our neighbors is more important than believing in any religion!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I withdrew into myself!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have never been able to find words to describe this love I felt!

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   cela c'est passer deux mois apres mon remariage,je m'en souvient comme si c'etait hier!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I went out of my body one night and I found myself in my daughter's bedroom. I was aware that she did know I was there because I was trying to call to her and she did not see me or hear me!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I've been struck by this vision that was behind me and trying to figure out what it really was. Was it 'my' consciousness? I don't think so, because my body was bathed in love, there was no past, no future, and I was aware of it all!  Well, thinking hard, trying to remember and figure out what I believe about all this is giving me a headache! I remember it as if it happened yesterday!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They thought I was crazy, so I don't speak about it anymore!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Immediately afterwards, I was so shocked that I could not find words to talk about it.  I was feeling very confused about what had happened, and pretty frightened by the vision behind me!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can differentiate between dreaming, lucid dreaming, and out-of-body experiencing, and I know this was not a dream.  There is a survival instinct of consciousness, which is like invisible waves! I have had dreams, which were just in my mind, and I also have escaped my suffering body which was in agony, paralyzed while anesthetized.  I was alert and this is when I found myself in my daughter's bedroom. I realized that she could not hear me or see me because I tried calling to her, but I was really there. I could go back to my body when I wanted.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Now I read more. I am interested in nature, science, anthropology, religions, (but not at all in the economy!).      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1belazreg_h_nde.html