{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1beh_e_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Beh E Probable NDE 7687","mylang":"de"}
          	        Beh E Probable NDE 7687  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Beh E Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4020 Beh E Probable NDE 7687  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					That night, my heart ached badly. I slept and what I experienced was somehow strange because It was not like issues I read about others in your website. I assure you what I experienced was never ever like a dream because I woke. Yes, it was as simple as that!

Before I dropped dead, I was asleep.  But upon my death, I woke up suddenly and was more conscious than I am now writing to you. My understanding is that people who die during sleeping and upon their death, they wake up because they are no longer alive to continue their sleep.  The same thing happened to me.

I was floating, something like floating on water.  As a result of sea waves, I moved accidentally toward up, down, left, or right. I had a tendency to move upward but it was really hard. On top, there was a large rectangle which was divided into two parts from the middle. It was exactly like a window without any glass, which you could pass through it and enter to the other side. In the right half part, all things were in red color but I couldn't look and see what was in it because it seemed like something stopped me from doing that. However, what was in the left half of the rectangle was unexpected and beyond my imagination. It was a blue sky color with land covered with flattened grass, a Christian cemetery, and graves with crosses. It was obvious that it belonged to Christians.  There shouldn’t have been any graves in that world.  This is ridiculous and funny, but I swear that this was what I saw and it was for real. It's interesting that I'm a Muslim and a Monotheist.  In our religion, there is no difference between Jesus and Mohammad (PBUH) because both are prophets.  But I don't know why I saw the Christian cemetery.  Again, I assure you that this was no dream and this event was for real. Then I moved downward slowly into my body, just like a piece of paper. 

Then I woke up, blinked my eyes, and realized that my my heart and ribcage ached badly. I had an infinitely heavy feeling.  It seemed that my heart had just begun to beat again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  94/3/1

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.    Heart attack.       Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I don't remember.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I didn't enter at all, just looked at it and then returned.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     It was just like a rectangular window that was for real.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Muslim

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Before this event, I completely believed in the afterlife.  But what happened was not similar to what I thought and expected.  Surprisingly, I saw many Christian graves whereas I'm a Muslim.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Evidence??!!! It seems ridiculous when talking about an event experienced in a high level of consciousness.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Now that I think about it, the right side window whose everything was red seemed like the hell.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real.       Since I was conscious and alert, it was for real and there was no false in it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definately not real      It was for real. There is a rectangular window directing the other world very similar to this world from the blue sky and the plant covering point of view. However, I didn't realize the meaning of seeing the graves.  No matters the religion of the person, there shouldn't be any cemetery in that world because it seems ridiculous and meaningless.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   </h5>  				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1beh_e_probable_nde.html