{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1beckie_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Beckie W NDE 5325","mylang":"de"}
          	        Beckie W NDE 5325  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Beckie W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2801 Beckie W NDE 5325  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was around 5 years old playing in a field with my step brother. We heard a sound in the woods and started running towards my grandmother's house. I went back because I forgot my jar of grasshoppers. I grabbed the jar, but as I was running back down the field, I tripped over a molehill and dropped it.  It broke and I fell on top of it. I ran back up, crying and trying to get to my dad. He saw me and ran to pick me up. They wrapped me in a towel and some blankets and my stepmother held me all the way to the hospital. I don't remember the whole ride. The next thing I remember is my father running, carrying me into the emergency room. Then the doctors grabbed me and rushed me into the operating room. The next thing I knew, I was sitting next to someone way above myself. We were looking down on the operating room where the doctor and six other people were working on me. I remember seeing the light shining on me.  I also remember the doctors in white. The person next to me had their arm around me telling me everything was going to be OK. I remember I had a conversation with this person, but I don't remember what it was about now. The next thing I remember was my dad and step mother coming into the room to see me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  don't remember

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had fallen on a glass shard.  When I got to the hospital, the doctor said I had high blood pressure and if it had been any higher, I would have died. The glass almost punctured my lung. The hospital was 50 miles away, and I had lost a lot of blood.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I was sitting next to the person who was comforting me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was sitting next to the person who was comforting me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was like being on a stage. Everything around where I was sitting was dark. Looking down on myself I saw that there was like a spotlight shining a circle on the group of doctors gathered around me in the operating room.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't know how to explain it.  It is like I just knew what this person was saying to me without hearing his voice.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The person sitting next to me was male, but I do not know if he was related to me. He kept telling me that everything was going to be OK.  It's like he was there to keep watch over me during this time.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Just the spotlight shining down on my body.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     just sitting above myself watching the doctors.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was confused. I did not understand what was going on, what was happening to me or why I could see myself and the doctors who were around me just as if I were watching someone else.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Nothing I can remember. I was very young at the time.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I know I was watching myself, but it did not really seem like I was in the same room.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Just that the person was telling me I would be OK.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Throughout my life, a lot of spirits, both good and bad, have, in some way or another, made their presence known to me.  However, I do not know if this would be considered 'psychic abilities.'  It's not like I can talk to the dead, but they do things that let me know they are there. The most recent was someone calling my name when I was alone. It was within the same week, if not that same day, that my Aunt Fey died. And I did not find out about her death until 3 days later.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Back then, I thought the experience was 'probably real.' But I was a child, and at that age, everything – all events – seemed real to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I do not know how to classify a NDE, but I can still remember it almost completely clearly to this day.  If I close my eyes, I can see it, and remember everything, even things that I cannot put into words.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I can't say for sure that this fits the profile of an NDE, but I was young at the time.  I wonder if my innocence played a part in any of how this seemed to me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1beckie_w_nde.html