{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1beckie_h_mother_nde.html","mytitle":"Beckie H Mother NDE 2242","mylang":"de"}
          	        Beckie H Mother NDE 2242  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Beckie H Mother NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  						632  Beckie H Mother NDE  2242  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

This is a remarkable story and I hope you can use it. I was sitting with my eight year old daughter by my mom's bed when she had a second stroke. Mother was raised to believe if you were not perfect, you didn't go to heaven. She was born 11/11/1911 and her mom died when she was seven. An abusive father raised her and her siblings. He beat them and gave some of them to other people. She married my dad at age fourteen to get away and they were married fifty-four years when he died. We are all very close.

Mother had an obvious problem, they came in and worked on her, and after an hour or so, we were allowed back in her room. She had been very sick. She was now GLOWING. The first thing she said was I have been to heaven and I saw my mother and now I know what she looked like. She was amazed because her dad and a brother who had been in jail were there too. They were all healthy and happy and loved her. Jesus told her she had to come back as she had things to do - this is the remarkable part. She had always been very depressed. The next four months were the most difficult of her life physically and yet everyone she met was told of the Lord's love for them. She sang hymns all the time and witnesses constantly. If she peed, she thanked God for it. It was an unbelievable change. She told my daughter that she saw her smoking and doing something she shouldn't and that she was to be very careful with her activities in the future. My daughter listened and thought it was sweet but didn't believe her. (Later she became a heroin addict but has now been clean for six years.) The emphasis was on her family of origin but the last thing she saw was my eighty-one year old dad walking down the street in a young, healthy body, about thirty years old. What a blessing for us to have this experience. She literally could hardly contain herself until she could get back to heaven.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/91  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         2nd stroke in 3 days...my mom...I was with her when it happened.  Died 4 months later  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Second stroke.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes, and she was more alive than ever when she came back even though her body was dying.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All through the experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   No time allotment at all/unconcerned about time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     City of crystal/gold streets  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Relationships with everyone changed - no bitterness or anger.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing what her mother looked like, her dad and brother were not in hell and warning my daughter of future problems although she would not be specific.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Changed every minute of the rest of her life, even great physical hardships were a thing of joy because her heavenly father had a plan for her and she was fulfilling that plan.  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1beckie_h_mother_nde.html