{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1becca_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Becca S Probable NDE 23057","mylang":"de"}
          	        Becca S Probable NDE 23057  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Becca S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4026 Becca S Probable NDE 23057  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was one of the first open-heart surgery cases.  I remember rising out of my bed and seeing myself lying there.  There was no noise and no sense of time.  I didn't understanding why I was above myself and seeing myself lying there.  I felt like I was in limbo.  I also felt like this was such a very peaceful existence that I didn't want to go back.  I remember an impression, not a voice, that communicated, 'There is something you have to do yet.'  I was being gently, but firmly, pushed back.   I remember almost everything exactly as it happened 48 years ago. I saw no angels, people, or relatives.  I believe the impression was from 'God.'  I had never had this type of experience before.  I remember everything very vividly even though it was years ago.  I will never forget the experience and it did affirm my faith in a higher being.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.           Experience associated with other S/P open-heart surgery

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  See Experience

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      I thought I was awake

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I thought I was awake

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    None

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Mixed

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     My body was in limbo, hovering over my body on the hospital bed.  I saw myself lying there.  All I know it was an impression, not a voice; there is something I have to do yet.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was gently but firmly pushed back; I did not understand.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe there is a higher being.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

After the NDE:

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not understanding

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people believed me, though at first I was reluctant to share my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing has changed.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1becca_s_probable_nde.html