{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1beau_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Beau B NDE 7370","mylang":"de"}
          	        Beau B NDE 7370  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Beau B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3747 Beau B NDE 7370  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have the very clear memory that in December 2003, I don't know the exact day anymore, at the Judo club, I was at training with Sébastien. He was stronger, sturdier and well versed than I was. We fell to the ground and we both tried to defend ourselves. With the collar of my kimono, he was making a strangulation move on my neck. I, on the contrary had done a leg-key at the height of his knee. We were both tightening our grip. Which one of us would let go? For sure, it was me, considering my dimensions. The more it hurt the more I was tightening my grip. Then I lost consciousness (but I was not aware of being unconscious). 

Without transition, there came this wonderful, unforgettable and indescribable scene. I was floating in an azure-blue sky. A cold wind hit my limbs. I heard the sound of the wind upon me. I was transported. My arms and legs opened up like a cross. I was flying at such a speed towards this light. At the moment, I didn't realize what happened, but it was impressive. Maybe I was in a big tunnel? I don't know, as everything was blue. I felt cold, very cold. Afar, I perceived this immense and very bright white spot, but it was pleasant to the eyes, not dazzling. A radiation, a source of warmth and well-being was warming my face. 

There was a great feeling of heat, interior peace, what else can I say, of well-being. I felt good, very good. I was bathing in fullness, a love. All around myself, I just saw an azure-blue. I had a sensation of being observed???  Maybe or surely. This light was pulling me towards itself at a tremendous speed!!! I felt good. It pulled at me faster and faster. 

A long time after this, I possibly understood, was it death? If this is so, then I have no fear. Then I had the feeling that it stopped, like a barrier that cannot be surmounted, a limitation that should not be crossed. There was this waking-up, a bit turbulent, with all this agitation around me. 

My sports colleagues told me that I had lost consciousness. As per their saying, it was ‘only a short time’, but for me this 'journey' took a long time. I didn't say anything. I just simply asked ‘What happened?’ I didn't have the impression of having lost consciousness; or rather, I wasn't aware of the outcome of this strangling (unresponsive body). It was strange? What happened; what was this?  It was no dream, oh no!! Until today, nobody knows this story. I believed that this experience lasted a certain time, but in fact, it took only a few minutes. But I think that this experience is disconnecting us from the notion of time. I saw a doctor to see if there were possible after-effects to this strangulation. I didn't talk to him about this experience. There was nothing, no medical consequences. It took a long time to put a name on what happened. With the help of a medium, he confirmed my doubts. Ah, yes, a certain psychic sensibility and a spiritual quest.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  decembre 2003- decembre 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident.  Other: compétition de judo, sur étranglement par un adversaire perte de connaissance.......  Inanimate, following a stoppage of breathing due to strangling from a neck hold

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know, I had no impression of a modification of the state of consciousness, no transition.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     No notion of time anymore, all happened very fast but seemed to last very long, all was speeding very fast (moving). I lost notion of time??

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Don't know

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Don't know

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Maybe I was in a tunnel with this light that was pulling me at a great speed. All was blue around me; I didn't see the void underneath, nor around me. I had the sensation to fly through the air at a very high speed, towards this intense light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Not during the NDE but a long time after, yes, then afterwards, (after the NDE) I encountered strange experiences: voices, sounds, music (harp), wood creaking, feelings of presences (warm, cold): presences, caresses, a wind blowing, energy decrease, faculty of clairvoyance, premonitions, feelings in places or houses, articular or muscular pain in the whole body, real contacts with entities between 2005 and 2007.  I have not seen but I sensed them).

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   But not dazzling, a white light with a yellowish spot that was growing more and more the closer I got, it was sending a radiation of well-being. A spot that is sending you something like a message of peace: of warmth, of love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Well-being, interior peace, what can I say: I felt good, very good. I was bathing in a fullness, a love. I wanted to stay.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Not at all, even when 'waking up', at that moment you cannot tell what is going on or what has happened to you. I had no immediate explanation or in the following days. I didn't know what it was.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     There was a feeling that it stopped like there was an insurmountable barrier, a limit that should not be crossed.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Help your fellow man, prayers, spirituality.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     je ne savais pas ce que c'était "la mort" avant....

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Prayers and spirituality, existence of life after death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   But a sensation as if being observed from both sides: this is only an impression.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     non pas sur le moment, mais bien longtemps après l’expérience

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     non mais longtemps après

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     non pas sur le moment, mais bien longtemps après l’expérience

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     ne savait pas ce qu il se passait

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     non pas sur le moment, mais bien longtemps après l’expérience

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     longtemps après

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I experienced strange happenings within myself from 2005 to 2007: voices, sounds, music, (harp), wooden ceiling creaking, sensations of presences (warm, cold) by caresses or a light blowing of wind, decrease of energy, faculty of clairvoyance at certain moments, premonitions, sensations in places or houses through pains and crying or blockage (not to enter), articular or muscular pains in the whole body.   Real contacts with entities between 2005 and 2007 (not seen but I sensed them). Contact with entities, a certain psychic sensibility and a spiritual quest: psychics and healers, spiritualists, (gift of clairvoyance?), by facts, disturbing statements, statements about past or the close future; disturbing details like: the TV starting on its own, had to get the plug out, lights sparkling; keys twisting about 90°, vision (a church) on TV, smells, ghost lights around me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Despite a radiation, a source of warmth and well-being that was heating my face. There was a great sensation of warmth, interior peace of well-being. I felt good, very good. I was bathing in fullness, a love. How to say: indescribable scenes and sequences.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   je l'ai écrit dans un dossier en essayant des tracer les détails avec des mots appropriés

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Clairvoyance as well as contacts (feelings, sounds, music, sensation of presences; I saw ghost lights around me, spoke to somebody who was caressing my back, felt smells as well as warm and cold in a room like displacements of energy (deceased), and one morning a hand appeared on the thorax while I was washing and dressing (May 19th 2012), crying in certain places, or refusing to enter there. Clairvoyance with my colleagues, about facts that happened later. Telling about their past to persons I just met (on certain persons) or about their close future, object memory.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The experience I had will forever be etched in my mind. Is it a message?  A destiny on earth: to put the record straight following eradication of doubts? Talk to people and reveal them a part of their past or present life? Certain persons are astonished, and the memory of objects, of people. I didn't believe that it existed: entities, life after death, I was persuaded that we will be dust again, a short passage; a birth, a death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took about 4 years to understand what had happened to me, I went to a psychologist who talked to me about an emotional shock following the death of my mother, and a difficult childhood. Yes this NDE, my wife knew about it, but we didn't give it much attention, thinking at the time it would be a normal reaction of the organism following an accident. But after 2007, things became more apparent: wife, family, children, sisters were immediate witness to some of my behavioral reactions.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I didn't believe in this at all.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I thought that I had been dreaming following the fainting and didn't give it much importance, thinking, at the time, that it was a normal reaction of the organism after the accident. But after searching on the web and with the help of psychics I understood.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       A very great experience: a message? Before the experience, I didn't know what ‘death’ was.  I wrote it down into a folder trying to describe the details with the appropriate words. Regarding a continued existence after death, I did not at the moment, but very much later after the experience. Not at the moment, but very much later after the experience, I became aware that a supreme being does exist. Not at the moment, but very much later after the experience I questioned if I existed prior to my experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1beau_b_nde.html