{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1beatriz_s_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Beatriz S Possible NDE 2406","mylang":"de"}
          	        Beatriz S Possible NDE 2406  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Beatriz S Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						750  Beatriz S Possible NDE  2406  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I went to the doctor's office after an interview at the University of Brasilia for the master's program. The interview took close to thirty minutes. I was a little nervous. When I got to the doctor's office for a follow-up to a plastic surgery I had done thirty days ago, I didn't feel well and I told the doctor. I was lying down and he had opened my blouse. As soon as I told the doctor I wasn't feeling well I started to feel nauseous. All of a sudden, I saw myself walking in a large brightly lit hallway; it was lit with a light that was brighter than I'd ever seen before. I felt well, very light and I observed that there were many doors. Everything was extremely clean, white and extraordinarily bright.

I stopped in front of one door that was open. I held the doorway and when I looked to the right, there was a man dressed like an astronaut but dressed all in white. On the part that covered the face, he had on a type of silvery cloth. The man looked at me through this sort of helmet and said nothing.

Then still holding on to the doorway I stuck my head in a little further through the doorway and I admired a tunnel I saw that descended downwards, looking sort of like a toboggan slide. At that instant, I heard someone call me, sounding a little upset, telling me not to enter. It was another man, dressed the same way as the first man but he was black and standing there mute. I had generally always liked a little controversy and arguing but I told him that I felt so good in that place and that I wouldn't argue with him and I would leave.

I left the doorway and I turned my back to the two of them. I heard the black man tell the white man that there had been a mistake, that it wasn't my time, that he had make a mistake or something like that. I didn't care and I turned my back in the opposite direction to where I had entered in that large hallway. I also had an urge to argue with the two men.

I then awoke from passing out in the doctor's office, receiving oxygen. The doctor was pallid, sweating, and administering first-aid. To me it seemed as if a lot of time had passed but the doctor said it had only been a few minutes. He said that my body had suddenly contorted and he had decided to treat it as a heart attack or a cerebral vascular accident. I didn't care much for the sensation of having returned because the sensation of peace and happiness I felt there had disappeared. I also felt as if my body was extremely heavy while in the hallway I was so light. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 08/12/1999  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related       Other Desmaio em um consultório médico, revisão, após 30 dias de uma cirurgia plástica. Foi, até hoje, a primeira e única vez que desmaiei, sendo que já fui submetida a várias intervenções cirúrgicas como cesariana, com anestesia geral, retirada da vesícula por motivo de pólipo, etc.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   After I came to I felt as if an enormous amount of time had passed but according to the doctor only a few minutes had elapsed.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I arrived at a door, I stuck in my head and one foot but I was prohibited verbally to continue to enter.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Two men, very human with astronaut like clothing, one white and one black. They appeared at the side of the doorway as I began to enter. The black man began to argue with me. He began arguing with the other man saying that there had been a mistake.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     Um plano limpo, iluminadíssimo, tranquilo.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Lightness, well-being, happiness, immense curiosity and a little bit of anger.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Another thing happened of which I try to not wish for anything else to happen.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to be a better human being, more ethical, more of a dreamer and I a thinker.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Describing the two men present, their clothes and as if they were directly addressing me.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Until today I have a hard time relating this story. People distrust these types of stories.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1beatriz_s_possible_nde.html