{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bart_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Bart R Probable NDE 7952","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bart R Probable NDE 7952  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bart R Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4120 Bart R Probable NDE 7952  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have done landings like this thousands of times without any injury.  But the sun apparently hid the wires, or at least I had no idea the wires were there.  Had I been flying ten inches higher, this would have been a typical landing.  I didn't see the wires and never felt the crash.  My last memory was that I kept flying although my airplane had crashed.  It rounded out and I knew it would be a perfect landing since I could hear the tops of the grass brushing against the bottom of the wheels.  

Then everything went black.  I thought, 'Oh.  I thought I was flying, but I guess I must be dreaming.' I patiently waited for the blackness to change.  It seemed to take a long time for that to happen, but finally I was flying again.  This time I was not in my own airplane but in a strange sort of vehicle that I had never seen before.  I thought for a while that it was a dirigible, but I couldn't see the lifting body.  I was alone in what seemed to be a passenger area.  There were no controls, no instruments, and no copilot; just a seat for me.  There were lots of windows, left and right and forward.  The machine was perhaps a little over 1,000 feet high flying over a beautiful, gently hilly countryside.  Beneath and ahead of me was a very small town.  Beyond the town was a river and a road that went over the river.  Directly beneath me was a field, with perhaps 20 children playing 'ring-around-the-rosie', or it seemed like that.  The children were holding hands in a circle and one child was running round the ring.  There may have been an adult of two, but I'm not sure of that.  There may have been something like a city on the horizon with glass spires rising up.  But it must have been 40 miles away. I felt no connection with the children or the town.  I have spend many hours in this lifetime looking down at little towns, but this was different from those towns.  Maybe it was different because this town had many trees in the countryside, and my experience has been over towns that had level fields all around. 

While I was thinking that this is a nice dream, I heard a male voice asking me, 'Would you like to return to your life on Earth?'  It took we a while to figure out this was not a dream.  I was on the edge of dying, or perhaps I had died, but this was a chance to go back.  The voice repeated the same question.  I had just seen my wife before I took off on my flight, and I didn't want to just disappear, or die when I hadn't said goodbye.  That was very important to me, to have said goodbye to her.  The third time the voice asked the same question, I said 'Yes!'  Then almost instantly the vehicle disappeared.  For perhaps a quarter of a second, I saw some sort of boundary.  It was as if there were thousands of file-folders there, and I knew that those were subtly different choices of my experience concerning my returning.  

Then I opened my eyes and I was in a hospital. I had no sense of pain or distress.  My wife was there by the bed.   As puzzled as I could be, I asked where we were.  I knew it was a hospital, but I couldn't believe I was in a hospital.  There were tubes in my body.  The hospital was not a pleasant place to be at all. I asked, 'Do you have a car?' She said, 'Yes, I do.' I asked, 'Can we leave now?' She said told me that it probably wasn't good to leave right now.  She said I had been a coma for the last seven days.  

Later she sold me that the doctors said that I might die.  They told her that if I didn't die, I may never walk again, may never talk, may have even a sort of vegetable, and not for her to expect much of me.  She refused to believe that.  

From that point there was no question for either of us, that I would be well again.  She taught me how to read a clock, and for the next month in the hospital I improved so quickly that the doctors thought it was a miracle.  I had never smoked or drank any alcohol, which they said was good for my recovery.  At last I came home again, and finished learning how to walk.  I had lost some 60 pounds in the recovery, and slowly got better.  In a few months, I was fine again. I rebuilt the airplane and flew it across the country a while later. In the last several months I've had an obsession to read books about death and dying.  I just counted that I've read 75 books in that time.   I've had this homesick feeling, ever since this experience.  I am very happy to be with my wife again, but felt a kind of depression for still being on earth these days.  I was startled to find that it may take years to recover from this experience.  As you know, I'm not for one instant scared of dying; part of me wants to go back right now.  I know I have something here to finish before I go, but I hope that won't take forever.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 31, 2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I was landing my airplane in a farm field, and my right wheel caught a power line.  According to others and by the event itself, the airplane immediately crashed, inverted at once, into the grass.  Two power line towers (like wooden telephone poles) collapsed and some small fires resulted.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seemed to remember everything that happened during the flight on the other side.  Time, of course, was radically changed.  That long black time, which felt as if it may have been 15 minutes, was that for six days, instead?

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All through it.  I thought it was a dream, though of course I remember every second of it, which I wouldn't, if it were really a dream. Well, a caveat here:  I was in the coma for seven days.  There must have been much that happened, but I don't have a clue of what it may have been.  I have asked for some answers but not even a clue, yet.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Some ‘time’ seemed to stop, other times were normal.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was perfect.  An odd thing about that, which I just now remembered.  The traumatic brain injury left me with double vision.  I get through the confusion of that,  just by closing one eye.  The mono vision works fine, as there are many pilots who had that experience.  But if I had the problem while I was in the air for the dream experience, I wouldn't have been able to see as I clearly could.  One little child running around others from a thousand feet up: that's great vision!

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was fine then, though it has worsened since the accident.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I thought that maybe the children I saw below the vehicle might have been deceased at one time.  They weren't when I saw then, though!

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The whole country beneath me was heavenly.  A perfect place, a perfect town…

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Normal emotions, that is, almost none.  Except, I did want to come back when I was asked, because I wanted to be with my wife, again.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   It was clear that I wouldn't be flying there indefinitely, or even for another few minutes.  My wife is the only person I care about, and I wanted to be with her again.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   I believe that the highest meaning of Love far exceeds the word 'God.'

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was startled when the voice began, since I thought I was alone. Clearly, that was not true.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There's no question that similar events will happen to all of us.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   Somebody asked three times if I wanted to come back to earth…no other words...a kind of dispassionate voice.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     No question of that…there is definitely a continuation of life.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I have to finish some kind of job before I can die. Nobody told me what that is, just an inner certainty.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Knew it would be difficult for me if I returned.  But whatever it would be, that would be fine.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     I now have personal experience to back up what were my previous beliefs.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In the first year.  They were interested.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had two events.  One event was when I was in perfect health and was seeing the brilliant light that didn't hurt my eyes at all.  Years later, I fainted after an injury and met the Elders. I kind of joked with them.  I was in no danger, and they said that this was going on just as it should be going.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I thought I was dreaming until the voice asked if I wanted to go back to my life on earth.  Then I thought, 'Uh-oh.  This voice is not kidding around with me!'

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's all perfectly rational.  Of course, we are eternal expressions of Love.  Also, of course, we cannot die!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   The two, might have been, NDEs, reinforced my beliefs, and a couple of voices that told me what to do in an emergency.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Keep it up!  Also, tell me how to get a book of all the experiences you have until now.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bart_r_probable_nde.html