{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barry_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Barry W NDE 721","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barry W NDE 721  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Barry W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						243  Barry W NDE  721  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Later, when someone asked me (before the memories of the accident returned clearly), what time of day it was when the accident occurred; I told them I thought it was during the day, because I was in a bubble of what appeared to be sunlight. It was only later that I recalled that I had left Denny's just before 9:000 p.m. I remained conscious until I was in the emergency room.


I was unconscious for the next day and a half, only awakening once when I realized that I was suffocating to death.


I was immediately taken up into a black void, where I began to see what I somehow instinctively knew were beings that had once been human. They were all composed of a condensed group of rainbow colored lights, but nothing that in any way appeared human. I could feel their thoughts like a cool breeze passing right through me.


My own identity appeared to also be composed of light, I noticed that my light had the ability to reach anywhere I wanted, and whatever beam of light consciousness I chose to direct my attention to, I could instantly travel down. I did this and found myself in a floral shop. What I found extremely fascinating was that I was able to experience all of the flowers simultaneously, and that no matter where I went I was always at the center of everything!

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Sept 8, 1991

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   AccidentSurgery-related  Intubation improperly inserted, causing me to suffocate causing cardiac arrest for 10 minutes.  Clinical death I was going home from Denny's Restaurant riding a motorcycle. At approximately 9:00 p.m., as I was proceeding through an intersection (a few seconds after the light had changed to green), I was hit by a car traveling from left to right. I woke up in a sitting position and realized that my left leg was missing from just below the knee. Almost immediately, paramedics arrived and began taking my vitals. They could not find any blood pressure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was a ball of light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Higher than in a normal state

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   it appeared to be irrelevant at the time, and the movement in space took zero time

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Not that I can recall

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     see above

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   just the ones I described

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Only what I've already mentioned

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     the event pretty much verified what I had previously been experiencing in visions over the past six years.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The senses are expanded to the point of ineffability.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     All of my paranormal experiences (of which there have been over two dozen) occurred previous to my near death experience. This does not include the visions that occurred at the rate of three to six a night over a period of approximately three and half years. I still receive them, but at a greatly diminished rate.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The realization that while I didn't cause the accident, somehow I was responsible for allowing it to happen.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    normally, unless they give a 'Introduction' I avoid the subject.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      none at this time

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barry_w_nde.html