{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barry_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Barry S Probable NDE 9649","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barry S Probable NDE 9649  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barry S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5210 Barry S Probable NDE 9649  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  I faced a mountain side. I’m not sure where it came from.
  
  Outside the mountain side, I saw  my late son, the doctor. The doctor was my deceased father figure. Both beckoned me to come over; so  I did.
  
  An opening appeared in the mountain side, through which I followed my son and the doctor.  I found myself inside a cave which, after going for perhaps 30 feet, dead ended at another wall. In front of wall  was a cross-tunnel where   I looked down the right tunnel to see miserable people with  lots of crying, screaming, fires and noise.  I went inside the tunnel and on my left was some sort of gargoyle, complete with a hooked nose. 
  
  A voice told me it was not my place, that I needed to turn around and go the way I had come from.  I promptly followed directions.  
  
  I went back down that tunnel following my son  and the doctor.  They appeared, as if by magic, in front of me yet again.
  
  Then another wall appeared in front of me.  As I watched, it began to fragment into fairly large chunks.  Light was around my son and the doctor, as if someone on the other side were shining a very high-powered search light on them from the back. 
  
  People were moving through the large cracks between the pieces. and I suddenly wanted to join the migration from this side to the other side.  In fact, my desire to join the moving stream of people was greater than I have ever felt before.  As my son and the doctor joined the migration, I so wanted and needed to join them.  It was a primal need that seem to be  driving me.
  
  I heard a voice saying something like 'You can’t go there – your time is not immediately yet.'

  I was horribly disappointed as I turned around and made my way back to the entrance tunnel from this surreal place.
  
  REFLECTIONS

  I was never afraid during this experience. It was 'just' another step in the journey of my life.    
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 03-21-23  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Infection that I was given 50% of surviving  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   No differences  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Hard to say  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     normal  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    normal  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I entered a tunnel which dead ended in a cross-tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Father figure and deceased son  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       mostly excitement  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  I had no choice  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Strong Presbyterian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant     

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Beliefs were never an issue  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

  Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   Normal sounding voice  
  
Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     A wall broke into pieces and people were coming and going through the wall  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

  Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A month.  Most have been quietly supportive while two were in denial  
  
Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barry_s_probable_nde.html