{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barry_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Barry C NDE 1037","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barry C NDE 1037  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barry C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						475  Barry C NDE  1037  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I found myself in a perfect blackness (not a tunnel), I could feel space around me. The blackness was so deep and velvet-like. In front of me, I saw a very bright light, but not a blinding one. I started to approach the light, it grew bigger, and bigger and finally, it turned into a great light ball around which I started to move, just like a planet. The ball was radiating love and tolerance, masculine power and indifference to who I am and what I have done - it was only important that 'I was'. I couldn't get into the light although I was very close. I wanted to be in the light so much. There was wisdom, acceptance, love and creative power in the light. I woke up then and I can't remember anything else.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    02.02.1981

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening I took a lot of medications.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My hands were joined and I stretched them as if I wanted to jump to the water, I didn't feel anything like feet.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Space - just like outer space.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     There was darkness around me but I didn't feel that I was in any kind of enclosure, I felt space. There was a bright point in front of me.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     There were no other beings; the point of light was a being or a whole group of beings.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Very bright light, but not blinding. It was getting bigger as I was coming closer to it.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Blissful state, weightlessness, flying, amazement, joy.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     But I can't remember what it was about. I knew answers to questions but I can't remember what these questions were. I was overcome with joy because of that.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I experienced acceptation and tolerance. When you are near the point of light it is not important who you are, it us important just that you are.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I knew I had to go back. I had no choice, I felt a loss, and I didn't want to come back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I'm peaceful and stoical (that's what my family and friends say)

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Infinite tolerance and love.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Sometimes I can predict the future, especially someone's death and I guess I have a small gift of healing people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Everything was wonderful, apart from my return.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barry_c_nde.html