{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barney_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Barney M NDE 2812","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barney M NDE 2812  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barney M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						957  Barney M NDE  2812  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  It was a hot summer day; a year after my grandmother and beloved brother had passed away. I worked on farms making money. I was going to go bail hay that day. I was driving a small truck and my good friend was with me. We were running late and were speeding about seventy mph on a gravel road. When I came up to a crossroad, I broad-sided a station wagon, flipped the truck over the car six times. My good friend was thrown through the windshield. I was thrown with the driver's door eighty feet into a soybean field. As I landed, I broke my left arm, broke my ribs, punctured my lung, bruised my heart and swallowed my tongue. I lay there without anybody knowing that I was even there. The medical records said I was there at least eight minutes. If it wasn't for my good friend asking about me they would never have known. As I lay on the ground, I felt nothing. There was no pain.  It was perfect peace. I felt myself being pulled and I saw my body lying on the ground. Then I saw the emergency medical technicians working on me but I didn't care. As I went higher to the light, I saw all my relatives that had passed - my aunts, uncles, and my grandmother. As I was traveling through the tunnel to the light, I saw my beloved brother and he stopped me. He said, 'It's not your time.' The next thing I remember I was lying on the ground in so much pain they had tubes down my mouth. I couldn't talk. The next thing I remember was waking up in the hospital. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	August 1987  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident     Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'swallow my tongue, bruised heart ,punctured lung, broken arm, broken ribs, head injury all on left side'  I don't know.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was so bright, I mean the colors.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was so clear, no noise.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a tunnel with a light shinning through it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my relation and my brother.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was so bright but pleasant.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       All I felt was perfect peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Started church, read the Bible many times.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   faith  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Started church, read the Bible many times.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a whole new look on life and I'm trying to live by God's law.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   That nobody would believe what I had seen and the perfect peace that I felt and I did not want them to think I was crazy.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it because I know there is hope.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It has been nineteen years and the only reason was because of church, the pastor and my doctor asked me if I had seen the light.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I went to the doctor's and talked with her not telling her about it just asking her to read my medical charts. As she read them, she looked at me and asked did you see the light. I was shocked to my bones not knowing what to say then she said in her thirty-eight years of being a doctor she had sixteen people tell her about the light.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barney_m_nde.html