{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barney_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Barney A NDE 21321","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barney A NDE 21321  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barney A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						931  Barney A NDE  21321  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I grew up in a small town with a large family, many, many siblings and cousins. We all had our own personality quirks to feel like an individual. I was the clown. In a different time than today it was very common for a group of children under the age of nine to be out running the streets and in our town in the heavily wooded mountains. Our town sat in a valley with very hilly roads. A large group of us was headed to my godmother’s house to go swimming. She only lived four houses down from my own and directly across the street from my best friend. Her house sat right at the top of a fairly steep hill, (steep in the eyes of an eight year old anyway). I ran into the road and proceeded to play a crossing guard. I held my hand up in the stop gesture and waved the others across with the other. They had all crossed safely and the joke had worn out its humor. This is all I can tell you from my point of view of the story leading up to what happened next. The other kids were preoccupied with who will get into the pool first that they really couldn't have been all that helpful. I was told that the driver never knew he hit me. The Jeep was coming up the hill (too fast I would imagine) and plowed over me. I was hit directly in the head by its bumper. Being in the middle of the road had helped protect me from the tires but that was my only luck.

I have no memory of leaving my body; the best way to describe it would be to say I awoke above the scene. I was at treetop level looking down. I was watching my best friend's mother running out of her house with a lime green baby blanket. She covered me with it. I watched the ambulance drive up. The fire station was about a quarter mile down the hill, so I thought it was strange that the ambulance approached from the other direction and that it was yellow and white. Back then, we had to take our bikes to the fire station every year and get a sticker that the fireman told us was our license. We also had parades ever year and the fire trucks and ambulance would lead with their lights and siren going. I had never before seen a yellow and white ambulance in my life. I also saw the lights and the ambulance number on the roof. I looked around and noted how silent it was. Like the old movies without the text breaking in. Watching all the action below without hearing a sound was strange. On my friend's rooftop, I saw our Frisbee and some baseballs. I also spotted a kite in the top of a tree in front of my godmother's house. I thought it was so cool that I could see things from this vantage point. I wanted to go and find other things. I heard faint crying and talking that sounded like my father. I had the sudden feeling that I did something terrible, I felt that I was going to be in trouble. I felt that my parents would not forgive me. I felt sick to my stomach. I closed my eyes and heard my dad telling me, ‘it’s ok, it’s ok, it’s ok.’ When I opened my eyes, my father was sitting next to me in the ambulance. He was still saying, ‘it’s ok’. I asked him what was ok? He told me that I kept talking about the lights on the roof of the ambulance. The rest is pieced together from info I was giving. I died three times during the operation. Three or four doctors worked on me for about ten hours. My skull was cracked all the way around my head and they had to take skin from my leg/butt to patch an area in front of my ear.

I have tried to think away much of my experience with logic. I knew I could not have seen anything I have never seen before if I was dreaming, so I did explain a lot away as far as the toys on my friend’s house. I must have known they were up there, when they were thrown up there and I just forgot about them. The kite was not mine, but I know that we flew many kites in my godmother's yard because she had one of the few large yards that were clear of dense trees. (I can say that after the months of recovery. We went up and got everything I had seen). I had to have seen the blanket my friend’s mom used during one of many sleepovers. What has haunted me until today is that ambulance. Once I got my mom to talk about that day she told me that our station was on a call and that they sent an ambulance from the town next to ours. I told her its number and colors and she started crying. I didn't see any reason to keep bringing up the accident with my family, so I just tried to forget it and not bring it up. I have told maybe five people in my life time. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1978

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'death was not diagnosed at the accident, where I had the OBE, but was in the operating room during surgery.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Wonder, worry, and guilt.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw lost objects on rooftops. The ambulance was from different town and I saw its roof numbers.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I had a sense of guilt that I either wasn't supposed to be spying on the scene, or I was going to get in a lot of trouble for getting hit by the car from my parents. I felt that they were going to be mad and I had to say I was sorry.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I feel that I am a very emotional person on the inside. People that are close to me would say I am disturbingly calm in stressful situations.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best is that I have a small preview of something beyond this life.  The worst is that I have a small piece of butt sewn to my head for life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I remembered everyone, and still can, but I really can’t remember any of my childhood. I can recall people in photos but couldn't tell you the day surrounding the photo.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barney_a_nde.html