{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bardin_nde.html","mytitle":"Bardin NDE 1049","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bardin NDE 1049  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bardin NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						472.5  Bardin NDE  1049  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

On last 21st of July, I gave birth, having a C'sarean under epidural. About two hours later, back in my room, I had a rather significant bleeding.… I called the hospital staff to ask them to change my sheet, spotted. The nurse asked me if I felt well, I answered yes. She let the beep alarm ring and two auxiliary nurses arrived for help… Same question… But this time I answered ‘I feel myself fainting, my head is spinning’. Two others auxiliary nurses arrived, 5 people looking after me … And in spite of that, I felt myself fainting more and more soundly… Still half-conscious, I heard my baby crying, I raised the head to see him, and a nursery nurse entered and took him with her.… I thought everything is OK; they look well after him… And I let go, I let myself fainting, in spite of the orders coming from the auxiliary nursing staff who gave taps on my cheek ‘stay with us!!! Hello!!! Madam!!!!’


Then I went out of my body, I knew what it was because my spouse had already an out of body experience. I saw myself lying on the bed with 5 busy people around me as if I were stuck on the room’s ceiling. All was dark; the silhouettes of the people seemed to be black on dark brown background. I did not distinguish their faces… nor mine… I thought I was dead.


‘Don’t be frightened’, then I heard… I was not frightened… I was dead, at least that’s what I thought, and I had no painful feeling… And I had already this feeling of being full of an infinite love as I had never felt before … Why being afraid of Love? Love does not want to do harm…


The memories I have from this are vague: I remember being advised on my way of living and my health: for example no more smoking and no more drinking. I was also advised on my behavior with my close relations and particularly on my relations with my mother, which until there were rather tended.


I have no memory about place and time… I was surrounded by very loving souls… And that’s not all: no room, no landscape… just the souls. It’s one of the auxiliary nursing telling my son’s first name and adding ‘he needs you’ that made me come back to life and its earthly reality. During the next 3 days, three out of the five auxiliary nursing staff, who were there when all this happened, told me they have been frightened to lose me.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    07/14/2004

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had no physical outline, I was only a soul; there was nothing material except the auxiliary nursing staff and myself on the bed.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was completely unconscious, but very lucid. Physically unconscious regarding what was really happening: somebody strongly struck me on the cheek and I don’t remember it. But on the psychic side, I was lucid: I knew that I was dead or closed to be and I knew that these souls belonged to what is usually called the next world… That I probably wouldn’t come back from there.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It’s totally impossible for me to tell if the experience lasted 3 days or 2 minutes… Auxiliary nursing staff told me it lasted 10 minutes… and I was somewhere, in a place without physical reality: neither walls nor landscape… no landmarks.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They were souls, in a place without material reality. I had the feeling to know them, but I did not recognize them. They advised me on the habits I had in my day after day life: stop smoking, take care to my food… and on my relations with my close relations. And that Love is stronger than everything… There is a kind of Love that we don’t know any more or that we forgot how to experiment, up to us to find it again and to give it to others.

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Love stronger than anything really exists but it can’t be described with our words … Our task is to hand over this love around us.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Concerning this, I still have vague memories but that’s true I have the feeling that I got some information about future events…

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I feel less concerned with only material issues… I spend more time with my close relations who became my priority.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   A so strong Love can’t be described with words… Neither such a level of emotionalism… Some feelings so much strong which make them impossible to describe… I never experienced something as strong before.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have the feeling to be able to cure with hands, but I don’t know any practical method for that, however, I have the strong desire to go deeply in this topic.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bardin_nde.html