{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barbara_w_nde_7152.html","mytitle":"Barbara W NDE 7152","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barbara W NDE 7152  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barbara W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3619 Barbara W NDE 7152  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having a routine out-patient surgery on my sinuses. As a child, I had severe nose bleeds and infections. This has plagued me into adulthood. About a month ago, I was sent to have a CT scan done on my sinuses. I met with an Ear Nose and Throat doctor who showed me the scan. It was diagnosed as a severe deviated septum, thickening of the mucosa lining and totally blocked drainage tubes. Surgery was recommended. I had previously been diagnosed with sleep apnea and had been using a CPAP [ Editor's Note: Continuous Positive Airway Pressure used to help a person who has sleep apnea breathe more easily during sleep.] machine for about six months.  On the day of surgery, everything was going fine. The surgery was to take about 1 to 1 1/2 hours. I remember being rolled back to the room about 8:45am and telling my husband, I loved him.  

The next thing I remember was dreaming. I somehow knew I was dreaming but thought it strange because I had never had a dream after surgery before.  In the dream, I noticed how beautiful the day was. It was sunny blue skies overhead. I remember walking up to a big brick house and there were beautiful flowers all around the front sidewalk. Everything was so colorful and vivid. The front door seemed to be especially illuminated and sparkly. I walked up to the front door and noticed a beautiful terra cotta tile design around the wooden door. I reached out my hand to a round metal doorknob to open the door and go inside. There was no fear or sadness. I just knew I wanted to go inside. Just as I touched the doorknob, I heard someone calling my name. They were saying, 'Mrs. Barbara you have to wake up.' 

It was like I was jerked back.  I remember opening my eyes and seeing several operating room staff crowding around. I passed out again and awoke again to a doctor giving orders to put different things in my IV.

I passed out again and woke up again.  I saw myself lying on the table with a breathing mask taped down over my mouth. At the time, I thought there must be a mirror over me to see myself.  I heard someone say, 'She's gone spastic, she's spastic'.  I wondered whom they were talking about and what that meant. I woke up again to the doctor taking my hand and asking me to squeeze it as hard as I could. I squeezed his hand and he said, 'Good, that's good.'  

The next thing I remember was waking up back in my room. They had brought my husband in and the doctor was telling him that I had stopped breathing twice. They couldn't get me to wake up and had to insert another tube to ventilate me. The doctor said they thought they were losing me. About that time, I looked to the wall clock again and saw that it was about 1:30pm. The rest of the day was spent getting me stable. My throat was in a lot of pain but they wouldn't give anything because the doctor said they couldn't take the chance of me going to sleep again.  

I was released later that night about 6:30pm. They wanted to keep me but I fought to go home and they relented after several doctors checked me out and said I was stabilized. I had never had any problem with anesthesia before or with waking up from it. No one seems to know what went wrong. I don't know if it had something to do with the sleep apnea or what.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2/26/14

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was having out-patient surgery on my sinuses.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It seemed as if I was conscious while it was occurring. Also, every time I came awake it seemed as if I had not been asleep at all.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The dream was very vivid and clear. It was almost as if it was actually occurring in real life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was clearer and brighter: more colorful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I had no trouble hearing what was going on around me. In fact, I wondered who they were talking about. It seemed like I was watching a TV show.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness. I was not afraid. It seemed as if it was happening to someone else.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     A closed door

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I wanted to go through the door to see what was on the other side. I knew something was beyond the door.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband as soon as I was able to talk, later the same day. My husband had doubts as to what I experienced was real.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barbara_w_nde_7152.html