{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barbara_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Barbara S NDE 7375\/5023\/2102","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barbara S NDE 7375/5023/2102  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barbara S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						547  Barbara S NDE  7375/5023/2102  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description 7375:   

It was a beautiful sunny summer day when I was at our family's wood cabin in northern Michigan.  We went there every summer and spent a week.  In front of the cabin was a river.  The water was perfectly clear.  I could not swim at the time.  I was wading out in the water and the water was at chest height.  I was looking at the sky and listening to nature and I took another step out and found there was no bottom and I went under the water and the river started to move me to the right.  

The last thing I remember thinking and seeing in my body, was that I could see so far under water and that the water was so clear.  The next thing I remember was I came into this clear white light.  As soon as I came into this light, all my fear of drowning was gone and I felt this light envelop me. This clear white light was all around me that I could see.  I didn't look behind me but I know it was behind me too.  I felt this total love and acceptance of me and I felt the same with the light.  I knew I was part of this light; I belonged to this light. I was home. I then realized there was a presence in this light and I realized I was light, too.  

We were the same but with different personalities.  I couldn't see anybody for myself or a body in the light.  The light then told me ‘you are here to learn how to love and to gain knowledge’.  When I was told this, all the implications of the word love and knowledge were imparted to me.  With the word 'love', it wasn't just about physical love but the love of nature, accepting all people as the same, everything that pertained to love.  The same was with knowledge.  It wasn't just about book knowledge but about learning about different cultures, histories of the world. I felt when I was told this that it wasn't just my reason for being on earth but all of our reason for being here: mankind.  

When I look back over my life I can see I have been doing exactly what I was told to do in the light that day.  My life has been all about learning and since I have been on the net, I have made many friends all over the world. There was no time there.  I don't know if I was only there for seconds, minutes or what. I knew my body was safe when I came into the light.  I knew I was going back to my body.  I don't remember leaving the light.  I don't remember getting back into my body.  That has all been blocked. 

Since I am here all I can guess is that I came to a shallow place and was able to get my feet under me and stand up and get out of the river.  I had a hell of a time learning how to swim the next year in school.  It took me quite some time to float on my stomach with my face in the water.  

Background Information:    

Gender:    Female  

Date NDE Occurred:    summer of 1962  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Drowning    Life threatening event, but not clinical death When I left my body I was standing straight up under the water and was being moved by a river to the right at about 3 miles an hour.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was completely focused on the light and how I felt.  There were no other thoughts like everyday living where you are thinking about a future event and other thoughts.  I was totally in the moment feeling every emotion and enjoying it immensely.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I came into the light and all my fear of drowning was taken from me, which was when I enjoyed being home.    

Were your thoughts speeded up?      No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I felt no time there.  I don't know if I was out of body for seconds or minutes.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      More vivid than usual  

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I was a young child so I had no vision problems back then so I didn't notice anything with my vision except that the light was very bright but it didn't hurt my eyes.  

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    My hearing was the same.  I didn't have a physical body but what was communicated to me was much more than what we communicate here.  The full meaning of love and knowledge was given to me when I was told the purpose why man is on earth.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No       

The experience included:      Unearthly light  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The clear white light is what I first remember seeing.  I was immediately in the light.    

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     This white light I have never seen on earth in my daily living so I would say it is not of this earth.  

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt great joy, love and belonging.  I was home, where I belong.  There is nothing to compare it to on earth except maybe holding your child for the first time.  There was no separation emotionally between us like there is on earth.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world  

The experience included:      Special knowledge or purpose  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about myself or others     The words love and knowledge were laid out for me in all their definitions.  It was soaked into my soul and I knew everything I was told is true. It was a reinforcement of for what I was to be on earth.  As I am writing this, I realize how far the earth has to come to be able to live in harmony with each other.  We are still in kindergarten fighting over toys.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told I have a job to do on earth to learn how to love and gain knowledge.  That is what all our jobs are here.  I never felt that it was my time to stay.  It was like I was given a big hug and sent back to work.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?      Moderately important to me  

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Christian- Catholic   I was being raised as a Catholic.  Was baptized, went to one year in a Catholic School, went through first communion, had not been confirmed.  We went to mass weekly and read the Bible once a week at home.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     During my 20's and 30's, I studied many religions, I guess now I believe in reincarnation or the continuation of the development of the soul through different lives.  That is the only thing that makes sense to me, because after going to other side, I know I have been there before and since I am living now it only makes sense that I have done this more than once.  How else are you going to continue learning if you only have a few measly years in one life?  

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?      Slightly important to me  

What is your religion now?      Christian- Protestant   As an adult took a Religions of the World course in college.  Have studied with the Jehovah Witnesses.  Have studied and was rebaptized as a born again Christian in the Baptist church.  I consider myself right with Christ but do not attend Baptist church at this time or any church.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?      Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience   Being raised Catholic at that time I was told about hell, heaven, purgatory and different types of sins etc. and that we would be judged after we die.  I felt none of that was true on the other side.  When I was in the light all I felt was love, belonging and acceptance.  There was no judgement of me in any way.  I felt religion was man made stuff to control society.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I lost any fear of judgment after death.  I believe that our lives on earth are for learning and growing as a soul.  I don't believe in hell anymore.  I believe that is man-made.  I believe that I am loved by the creator, with all my faults and goodness.  

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I heard a voice I could not identify   It wasn't just a voice like when you are talking to someone on earth because I was getting all the feelings and ramifications of the words too.  I was being told this is why you are here on earth to learn how to love and accept each other.  I think the creator is very disappointed in how this earth is run.  I feel I was lucky to have had this experience because I was told and reinforced what my mission on earth is.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?      No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?      Yes     I felt I knew this light intimately.  This wasn't our first meeting.  I felt like the light was my real home.  I felt that taking on a physical body was about learning.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?      Yes     I became aware that I am the light also.  We are all part of the light.  Each soul is part of the whole or God.  

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?      God probably exists  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?      Yes     There was definitely a separate personality from myself.  Since all I saw was a white light that enveloped me I felt I was the same as the light.  I didn't see any physical body on myself.  Is this white light God, I don't know.  The light didn't say it was but I felt I was part of it.  I am the light also.    

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?      God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:    

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that man would not advance in the universe until we learned how to love each other and accept our differences.  How can we accept other cultures from other worlds when we can't even accept ourselves?    

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?      Yes     I was told that we (mankind) are here to learn how to love and gain knowledge.  I didn't feel when I was told this that it was just my mission but all of us.  

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?      An afterlife probably exists  

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?      An afterlife definitely exists   When I came into the light it was very familiar, it was coming home I felt.  I felt I belonged in the light and was part of it.  I felt that this wasn't the  first time I had been where I was.  

Did you fear death prior to your experience?      I slightly feared death  

Do you fear death after your experience?      I do not fear death  

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?      Not fearful in living my earthly life  

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?     Not fearful in living my earthly life  

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?      Are probably meaningful and significant  

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?      Are meaningful and significant  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?      Yes     loving.  we really need to work on loving each other.  Love is all about power, control and getting what is best for me.  We don't look at the person just as an individual that I love but as an asset to where I want to go in life.  it is still about pedigree and what power the person holds.  I felt I was being told that every human was exactly the same in God's eyes and we need to love each person as if we are loving God because each of us is part of the creator.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?      No       

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?      Moderately compassionate toward others  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?      Yes     All i know is the love on the other side is pure with no strings attached.  We on earth love nothing like I felt over there.  I felt totally loved and accepted when I came into the light.  On earth there are always conditions to love.  When we first fall in love, it is much more pure than later on.  I think that is because we only see the good in the person.  Later it becomes if this person fits into what you want in your life.  When they don't it is bye bye.  

Were you compassionate after your experience?      Moderately compassionate toward others  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?      Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I found that what I was taught in religion didn't stand up to when I was in the light.  I believe now that religion is a big part of our problem here on earth.  Most wars are caused by religion.  I have not lost my love of God because I know my essence is part of the creator's. I always was a reader from early childhood.  I always have studied many, many topics other than schooling.  Since the internet and a business, I ran for many decades I have gotten to learn about different cultures and have many friends from all over the world.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I have no prejudice in me.  I was shocked to find that my brother and sisters are so prejudiced about other races and cultures and have no interest in knowing any other race.  I don't remember us being raised with any prejudice or maybe from early on I had decided to find out about other cultures and I did my own thing.  I ran an international business for 25 years helping foreign students write their papers for college and universities.  During that time, I learned about many different cultures and found that people are all pretty much the same once you get past how they were raised.  

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   When I was enveloped in this clear white light the love and acceptance of me was way beyond any love I have felt on earth.  There was no judgment of me; there was only acceptance of me as a unique self.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?    I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I can remember the physical experience exactly in my body before I left it.  I remember when I went under the water seeing far in front of me.  I remember the water moving me to the right at about 3 miles per hour.  I remember I thought well this is it since I couldn't swim at that time. I thought I was going to die and then I was in the light.  the experience in the light has always remained the same in what was said and what I felt.  This experience is the most important in my life by far.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The time I spent in the light.  The unconditional love and acceptance of everything about me with no judgment of any kind was part that I took back to my life.  I am perfect to the creator as I am.  How could we all not be if we are each a spark of the creator?  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Not until Moody's ‘Life after Death’ book.  I didn't know that was what I had back in the early 60's.  I was attracted to the book as soon as I saw it and when I read it, I thought ‘so that is what happened to me as a child’.  I have told a few people who are close to me.  It is not something to tell everyone because they will think you are nuts.  It is like people who have been in a UFO.  People look at it in that realm so you don't tell everyone.  Now it is very common, so I don't think it is that strange anymore.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I think my mind blocked it for a long time because, I still, to this day can't remember how I got out of the water.  I had no doubts about what happened when I was out of my body just what happened when I was in the water.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Now that I know what happened to me also happens to other people, I am glad to know I am not alone.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Only that I was told very directly and with perfect explanation of why we are here on earth. We are doing great on gaining knowledge the last century or so. But as far as learning how to love, I don't know how many lifetimes we will all have to go through to finally learn how to accept each other and stop the prejudice, power games and thinking what we do for a living makes us better than someone else.  The biggest thing I learned from my experience was that no one is better than anyone else.  We are all exactly the same in the creator's eyes.   When I came into the light it was very familiar, it was coming home, I felt.  I felt I belonged in the light and was part of it.  I felt that this wasn't the first time I had been where I was. There was definitely a separate personality from myself. Since all I saw was a white light that enveloped me, I felt I was the same as the light.  I didn't see any physical body on myself.  Is this white light God, I don't know.  The light didn't say it was but I felt I was part of it.  I am the light also.  I felt I knew this light intimately.  This wasn't our first meeting.  I felt like the light was my real home.  I felt that taking on a physical body was about learning.  I became aware that I am the light also.  We are all part of the light.  Each soul is part of the whole or God. All I know is the love on the other side is pure with no strings attached.  We on earth love nothing like I felt over there.  I felt totally loved and accepted when I came into the light.    On earth, there are always conditions to love.  When we first fall in love, it is much more pure than later on.  I think that is because we only see the good in the person.  Later it becomes as if this person fits into what you want in your life.  When they don't, it is bye-bye. Loving: we really need to work on loving each other.  Love is all about power, control and getting what is best for me.  We don't look at the person just as an individual that I love but as an asset to where I want to go in life.  It is still about pedigree and what power the person holds.  I felt I was being told that every human was exactly the same in God's eyes; and we need to love each person as if we are loving God because each of us is part of the creator.   Being raised Catholic at that time I was told about hell, heaven, purgatory and different types of sins, and that we would be judged after we die.  I felt none of that was true on the other side.  When I was in the light all I felt was love, belonging and acceptance. There was no judgment of me in any way.  I felt religion was man-made stuff to control society. I can remember the physical experience exactly in my body before I left it.  I remember when I went under the water seeing far in front of me.  I remember the water moving me to the right at about 3 miles per hour.  I remember I thought, ‘well this is it’ since I couldn't swim at that time. I thought I was going to die and then I was in the light.  The experience in the light has always remained the same in what was said and what I felt.  This experience is the most important in my life, by far.      		


            Experience Description 5023:     					

I was 10 years old and at our family cabin up north in Michigan. It was a sunny summer day and I was wading in the river at chest level when suddenly there was no bottom and I went under the water still standing straight up with my eyes open. I can still remember the water moving me at 3-4 miles an hour to the right. The last thing I remember in the water was thinking how clear the water was. At this time, I did not know how to swim. I thought this was it. 

The next thing I remember is coming into this clear white light. It was all around me. I could see it in front, and at the sides but I knew it was behind me too.  Then I realized that I was this white light too.  I was a separate entity but the same as the light. Then I felt a presence from the light and all my fear was taken from me and I knew that I was going to be all right. I felt this total love and acceptance of me from this light and I felt I knew this light very well and trusted it completely.  There was no judgment of any of my actions or life review. That maybe because I was only 10. 

I was told that you are here to learn how to love and to gain knowledge.  When this was said, not by words but by thoughts, every connotation of the words love and knowledge were shown to me.  I knew it was not just talking about book knowledge or physical love. It meant that I was here on earth to learn how to accept every race and have no prejudice that I was to keep expanding and learning about the Earth, nature, animals and people.  I felt that this was the mission of all mankind not just me. 

As an adult, I ran a business where 80% of my clients were foreign. I didn't realize that I was living the exact life I was told I would lead, working with all different cultures and constantly gaining knowledge. I guess the experience I had was a gentle reminder of what I had signed up for in this life. 

There was also no time over there. I couldn't tell you how long I was out of my body. Seconds, minutes, hours, everything was now.  I knew I was going back to my body.  There was no discussion about that. I knew I had a lot to learn in this life. I don't know how I got back in my body or how I got out of the water. All I can figure is that I must have hit a shallow area and was able to stand up and get out. I think there is a big mental block there once I came back to my body and my mind even today won't remember it.  When you are 10 years old and fighting for your life in a river I can see why that would happen.

Background Information:    

Gender:    Female  

Date NDE Occurred:    summer 1961  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     drowning event  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Drowning.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt totally safe, happy and loved.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      When I first came into the light and realized I was a part of this light and then realizing I was enveloped by light and the presence that was the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was no time as we know it. Everything was now.    

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid  

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Everything was vivid. I call the light I was in clear white because there is no white here to explain it, it was very bright but didn't hurt your eyes, but of course I wasn't seeing with my physical eyes either.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     All I remember is one second I was thinking how clear the water was and the next I was entering the white light. I think I left my body in a panic and the light was there for me right away to calm me.    

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I didn't feel the being was any part of my family because none had died that I knew of but this being of light I totally trusted and loved.  I was told what I was on earth for and what my life was about.  I felt merged with the light, and that we were one, but with separate personalities. I felt a part of it. Even though it had a personality, I didn't see a face or body, but it had a very strong presence.  

The experience included:      Light  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The white light enveloped me. It immediately took away all my fear. It was incredible. I knew I was safe and loved.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     just seeing the white light that sure didn't feel like earth.  So different dimension, possible  

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Joy, love, safety, acceptance. Part of me didn't want to go back to my body because I was home, but I was told I had things to do back here so I didn't feel like I had any other choice. I had signed up for this life and I was going to live it. I accepted and wanted to do this life too after I was reminded of what I was here for.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world  

The experience included:      Special Knowledge  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I realize now looking back over my life that I ended up doing exactly what I was told I was here to do. It's funny because at the time it didn't hit me that I was until I had my business for about 5 years. Then I realized I was working with college students and professors and learning something new every day. I was also working with foreign students at the universities so I was mixing with cultures from all over the world. It was great.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I know that our existence can survive outside the body. I believe that we have many lives and that we don't just live one. I was taught that you die and you lay in the ground until the final judgment. What would the soul be doing laying in the ground for eons, what a waste. That makes no sense to me at all. I know we can exist without the physical body. I believe we never die, the body does but we continue on with our learning.  

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Baptist  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know that our existence can survive outside the body. I believe that we have many lives and that we don't just live one. I was taught that you die and you lay in the ground until the final judgment. What would the soul be doing laying in the ground for eons, what a waste. That makes no sense to me at all. I know we can exist without the physical body. I believe we never die, the body does but we continue on with our learning.  

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:    

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told that Man was put on Earth to gain knowledge and to learn how to love.  With the knowledge we are doing great, but with the love bit not so good. We have a long way to go as far as learning how to love each other; a long way from what I felt there.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I have many friends and friendships lasting 20 to 30 years. It seems that once I make a friend I keep them a long time.  I know that there is no prejudice in me and it really irks me when I hear people talking about other races thinking they are better than them.  

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I seem to be much more in tune with people, knowing what they are thinking and feeling. It seems everyone comes to talk to me about their problems. I used to say during business that I was going to put my shingle out for counseling because my clients would talk to me about their problems all the time.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Yes. Being reminded about why I was on Earth and what I had decided to do with this life.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It was 49 years until I shared the experience with others. About 20 years ago, I found the first Moody book called Life after Life and found out what had happened to me. I think the book came out in the late 70's or early 80s. That is when I first told someone. I told them about the book and what had happened to me as a child. It was new stuff and I was still trying to get a grip on what had happened to me too.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It is the clearest memory I have of my childhood, at least until I left my body and went into the light.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Now that I know that there really is such a thing that happened to me I feel much more normal.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It definitely took the fear out of dying away, knowing that you still exist. The act of the body dying is a real bummer with all the pain etc. That is what people are afraid of, not the actual dying of the body. When you leave your body, there is lightness and freedom, much better than being in a physical body. NDEs are like UFOs in that everyone knows they exist but people want to pretend they don't because they don't understand them.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No it is good as it is.   		


            		Experience Description 2102:     					

I was 11 years old and up at a river where our family had a log cabin.  We spent a week there during the summer, each year.  I was walking in the river, which was crystal clear.  The water was chest deep and I couldn't swim.  I had been in this river many times so didn't fear the river. Suddenly there was no bottom to the river and I went underwater.  I remember I still had my eyes open and everything looked perfectly clear underwater.  I was moved to the right at about 5 miles per hour.  

The next thing I remember was coming into a clear white light.  I lost all fear of drowning.  I knew that my body was perfectly safe.  I felt this total love and acceptance from this light.  I realized that the white light had a voice in it, and was separate from me.  I also realized that I was still me but was part of this white light as well.  I belonged to it and it belonged to me.  I was told that you are here to gain knowledge and to learn how to love.  When I was told this, I realized that when the entity said 'You' it didn't mean just me, it meant the human race.  I understood all the ramifications of love and knowledge when it said this to me.  It didn't mean physical love as much as it meant learning to accept all races, and knowing that no soul is better than another.  

As for knowledge, there was the book-knowledge part, but also that I was to learn from other cultures and to accept all people no matter what race or color.  How I came back to my body, I'm not sure.  All I can figure out is that I came to a shallow place and was able to stand up. This experience has carried over to my whole life.  Now I work with many foreign people and I am in a position where I am learning every day, so I guess I am doing what I am supposed to be doing.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 summer 1962  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   A near-drowning event.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I understood all the answers to who I am and what I am doing here.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I came into the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   When I left my body, I have no idea how long it was, but I knew my body was not going to die.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were different; the clear white light, as I call it.  I had never seen that color white before.  It didn't hurt my eyes.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     When this entity in the light spoke to me it was mind to mind, but I understood exactly what it was saying.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I said, after I left my body, I came into a clear white light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt totally safe and loved. I felt I belonged to this light and it belonged to me.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told very distinctly why I am here and why all of us are here.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seem to know what people are going to say before they do.  I'm much more intuitive.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        How much I am part of this universe became very evident.  I am part of this light.  We all belong to it.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only in the last couple of years.  I have found that others have had experiences, too, as children, but never told anyone either.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real.  There is no doubt about what happened to me in the water that day.  I definitely left my body.  How I got back into my body is still a mystery to me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Nothing has changed how I view the experience.  It is still as strong in my mind now as it was then.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        No.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barbara_s_nde.html