{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barbara_r_nde_3096.html","mytitle":"Barbara R NDE 3096","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barbara R NDE 3096  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barbara R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1108  Barbara R NDE  3096  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had already lost a lot of blood when I was on my way to the hospital. I had asked my husband to go with me just in case I passed out. At that moment, I wasn't bleeding profusely, but I felt well enough to take the train instead of the ambulance. I just wanted to go to the hospital of my choice, which to me was closer than the hospital that emergency medical services had chosen; besides my choice of hospital had my medical records. I got to the train station, which was only a block away, and we went up the stairs and paid the fare. Suddenly everything started going black and I couldn't hear anything. I sat down and laid my head on my husband's lap. After a few minutes, I felt fine so I got up and started toward the double doors leading to the platform. I cannot say at what point I passed out but I remember dreaming of a dark space and I saw people dressed in bright white and the feeling of I had a job to do. A job that was important in the grand design of things. A job that God gave me. But I had so many questions.

I then felt like if someone was pulling me by the back of my shirt and I felt like I was falling and I heard my husband calling me, but he seemed so far away. Then I felt him smacking me telling me to wake up. When I opened my eyes I asked him why he woke me up, I was dreaming? He yelled at me and said that I was in the train station. I know that I was in and out of consciousness because every time I awoke there were firemen and police around me. They said I went into shock, I had convulsions, and I hit my head when I fell. After they managed to stabilize me by giving me oxygen, I was taken to the emergency room. When a doctor examined me, I was bleeding like an open faucet. 

The doctor took me up for emergency surgery called a 'D & C'. They prepped me and I remember dreaming again, the same thing but this time instead of darkness, there was an infinite white light. I remember seeing faces with white clothing and what looked like wings but everything happened so fast and again I felt someone pulling me by my shirt. Then I remember hearing the voice of the anesthesiologist calling me but he too sounded far, far away. I felt him pull the tube out of my mouth and he started smacking me until I opened my eyes. I have had a 'D & C' done before but they didn't put a tube in my mouth to do the procedure. I had to get two blood transfusions, I was given iron through an IV, and it still wasn't enough. For a few days after the whole trauma I had lost the concept of time and I felt peaceful and I had a high sensitivity to loud noises - it's like having a migraine without the migraine.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    5-14-2007

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related  miscarriage  Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  Severe loss of blood due to a miscarriage.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Just before being pulled back.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Just before being pulled back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     It went too fast.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     It seemed like an angel but I don't remember any sound.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The second time.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It felt like God gave me something to do.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     It is still too soon to tell.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       When God gave me a job or purpose.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    A few hours.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   But I never believed anyone.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Like it was a message of my purpose but it's still a bit hazy.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It seemed like a dream but it felt too real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Twice in one day, I didn't think it was possible, that makes three. I had a NDE when I was born, my mother said I was blue and I almost died.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barbara_r_nde_3096.html