{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barbara_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Barbara P Probable NDE 8101","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barbara P Probable NDE 8101  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barbara P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4221 Barbara P Probable NDE 8101  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was about 10 years old. I needed a tetanus shot. Later that evening, my arm hurt, this is not unusual for inoculations. I went upstairs to lie down in my bedroom.  As I lay there, the pain in my arm became intense.  Eventually the pain spread to the entire body.  I was in excruciating pain.  Even breathing was nearly impossible because it was too painful to move my chest to breathe.  I was paralyzed so I could not go to get help nor call for help. 
 
  About the time when I knew I could not breathe any longer, a man came and took me out of my body.  I stood by him, but did not see him.  The amount of Love, joy, and peace that I felt was so extreme that I have no words to describe it. Those words I just used are trite compared to the level of emotion that enveloped me.  He took me to a place where I could look down on my neighborhood. It reminded me of what being with Santa Claus in a sleigh would be like.  Then we both moved to another vantage point where I could see more.  Then he telepathically spoke to me.  He told me to turn and look at my body.  I did. It was lying there just fine.  Then he said, 'You just have to go back into it for a moment.'  I said, â€˜O.K.' We went over to my body.  I just sat down and laid back down into my body. I am amazed I was willing to go back because the pain in my body was incredible. But the love and peace was so extreme, that I had no concerns about that.  I knew beyond a doubt that this was my last breath I could force.  I looked up at the light and said, 'Father, just take care of me', then closed my eyes. 
 
 HE must have healed me immediately because I woke up the next day. 
 
 I did not tell anyone about this because I felt that nobody would believe me, certainly not my Catholic parents.  They believed that when you die you go to Limbo or Purgatory.  I didn't go there. I knew that information was wrong and didn't wish to argue with them. 
 
 Three years later, we went to the World's Fair in Queens NY, USA.  We saw all the pavilions since we lived only about 20 minutes from there.  When we got to the Mormon Pavilion where they had a movie called 'Man's Search for Happiness.' In the movie, a grandfather died and was met by others.  I thought, 'Gosh, someone else knows about this!'  Still I kept quiet.  As we left the Pavilion, the man who was with me when I died, came back and said to me, 'It's True.'  I later joined this church.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  about 1961

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic Reaction.       Other:  I was alone, in anaphylactic shock, and taken from my body. Anaphylactic shock from a tetanus shot.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more aware while in my body, because of the level of pain I was experiencing.   I was more conscious, after I was taken out of my body, because of the indescribable levels of joy, love, and peace that exist after you die.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure I understand the question. Do you mean after death?  The whole time I was at a high level of consciousness and alertness, just on the other side of the 'veil'.  Do you mean before death? It was when I was lying there in such agony from pain.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I have no idea how long I was out of my body.  My physical body was no longer able to breathe.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I was out of my body, I was able to see despite the walls.  I could also see an entire neighborhood from an angle or position not otherwise possible, except maybe in a helicopter.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear with my ears. We communicated but it was using thought.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I had someone with me but have no clue whom it was.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I actually saw the light AFTER I went back into my body and knew I could no longer breathe. I knew Heavenly Father was out there near that light somewhere.  When I was back in this incredibly painful body and knew I could no longer take even one more breath, I looked at that light and just said 'Father, please take care of me'.  I remember knowing that this was my Heavenly Father, not a concept that I had been taught before, but I knew it with certainty.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt loved, beyond what one can feel here. I felt at a level of peace that I would not think one could have ever attained.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I just seem to know, within myself, that I was a loved child of my Father in Heaven.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I was going to Catholic school and taught about Limbo and purgatory when you die and now knew this was not true

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I started as a Catholic, and then had this experience, and then the Man who took me out of my body came back after I visited the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair and told me the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints was true. I joined that church as soon as I could.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Mormon   The man who took me out of my body at age 10 came back the day I was going through the Mormon Pavilion in NYC.  He came and told me what I was hearing was true

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was taught about the Trinity, that Heavenly Father, Christ and the Holy Ghost were all in one three-leaf clover idea. I learned that they are separate people. I also learned that we don't go to Limbo or purgatory.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I knew what happen after you died and kind of didn't understand why people got upset when others died.  I still have trouble understanding that because I feel I don't 'just believe' in an afterlife, I KNOW there is an afterlife.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   It was a man, not a woman, a man, who came to take me out of my body and who stayed with me the entire time. I never saw him, but we spoke and he surrounded me with love beyond description.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I do not know who it was who came to me.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I'm not sure I get the question... I knew I was a daughter of a Heavenly Father.  I always seem to look at others like that now. That was information I didn't have before this experience.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I learned or had confirmed that I have a Heavenly Father. It was HIM who I spoke, to telepathically and asked Him to take care of me as I could no longer breathe. God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am aware that I am here for some reason I haven't figured out and that there is a reason for this life.  I may not know exactly what that is, but I do know that it is.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I know definitely there is life after one dies, and one is not alone afterwards but others are there. I know that the place is of love and peace.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I think I pulled the information together later, but feel I learned it then but was unaware of it. For a long time afterwards, I dealt with depression.  There was some feeling of rejection like why didn't I get to stay over there?  But despite the level of depression, I felt I learned that one couldn't decide when to die. I could never attempt suicide.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Just the level of love that exists there, it is such, that when people die, even if I am close to them, I do not feel sadness because I know what they are experiencing.  Sometimes I actually get a bit resentful that they get to go and I don't.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I felt others did not understand what happens after you died and felt like an odd person having that information, that I felt I couldn't share. I have also had additional contact with the person in my years, since that experience, which have changed my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I look at all people as being eternal, as they are my brothers/sisters, and I want them to feel the comfort of the knowledge my experience can bring them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The words we have, do not approach the intensity of the level of love, joy, and peace, you feel. The words are quite trite in comparison.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    That event is still so close to me.  I remember it as if it were yesterday, though it was really 55 years ago.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Well, I do have some experiences with my mother coming to me after she was dead; the person who came to me when I died has come several times for different reasons.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I struggle with just wanting to go home sometimes. I know my home isn't here. I feel dropped here on earth for a period of time and wish I knew when I get to go home.  I also do know this earth life is NOT my home.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I never shared it until years later when someone else expressed that they, too, had died. Then I thought, 'Gosh, maybe I'm not the only one.'  I usually only share this with people who would know and understand. I have shared it with a granddaughter who does not believe in God and she thinks I'm crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This experience spoke to my soul. I knew it happen.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have never questioned it. It is as if it happened yesterday. Also, as I said, I have had other times I have met with others not of this world.  Angels.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When that person comes back to visit me for specific reasons..

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have had additional contact with people on the other side of 'the veil', and treasure those experiences.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       How do you view death now? 
 
 Well, I view death as if one is just changing grades in school. I tell my grandchildren that they passed from kindergarten to 1st grade or maybe elementary school to junior high school.  It was a bit scary, but things were ok, and I adjusted fine.  That death is like that. One is just passing from one grade to the next. One is going home, finally.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barbara_p_probable_nde.html