{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barbara_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Barbara P NDE 31904","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barbara P NDE 31904  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barbara P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2660 Barbara P NDE 31904  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a terrible vehicle accident. My boyfriend’s brothers found me.  They called EMS. I went to the hospital. The emergency room doctor tried something that did not work out quite well. My physical body stopped functioning momentarily.  Then I returned. Do not recall the physical extent of injury until the next day. After a few days was able to recall what occurred out of my present body.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  06/18/1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Moderately severe sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Partial view of body and a face that I could recall from real life. Not exactly like real life but like looking through, the person was see through.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Father, aunt, and Grandmother told me to go back I had something important to do.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     good friendly people

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   No human words can describe the brightness or warmth.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very loving caring warm feeling.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not at that exact moment, but I can often feel what might happen.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My belief was strengthened.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Yes. No one can talk or organize me out of my belief.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can feel others feelings.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I'll have to get back to you on that.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some say it is unreal. Some don't believe that I sometimes joke about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I saw my mother join my father, grandmother, and aunt when she passed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes    I have had other experiences, but no drugs.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barbara_p_nde.html