{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barbara_l_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Barbara L Possible NDE 6250","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barbara L Possible NDE 6250  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barbara L Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3012 Barbara L Possible NDE 6250  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It's simple and I guess that is what bothers me because as much as I read it is usually much more dramatic. I know it happened and can still see the man next to my bed in my mind, but I don't know him. I was very ill and in the critical care unit. I was in the hospital about 10 days after an exploratory surgery. They thought it was gall bladder disease prior to the surgery but because of my age and because of a severe back up of bile the doctors could not be certain. It was in fact a diseased gall bladder, which was removed. I was young, lacked much confidence and didn't ask questions. I was in severe pain and fell asleep. 

I became aware of a man in a grey suit standing next to my bed. He was tall, slim and older. It was not frightening in any way. He very simply said, 'you can come with me now or you can stay'. I knew he meant that I would die if I went with him.  It was whatever I chose. I said very quickly, 'I still have a son in diapers I have to stay'. With no time passing whatsoever, I was back in my body and in extreme pain. 

In my experience, there was no dramatic white light, no angels, and no one who had passed on. It was simple. That is the end of the story. I got well in a normal fashion. Yes, of course I have had many 'hard to explain' experiences before and since, but that is all 'normal' if people are paying attention.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related  that is the mystery. Other that is the mystery. I was in ICU but did not tell anyone. It wasn't something anyone spoke of then and so although I have a very clear memory of it...it is just that. No proof...just an experience

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was very important and very clear.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While speaking to the man.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed to happen in a split second: but it was a brief conversation.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw the man in the gray suit and his stature.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It's not like speaking to someone. It just happened. I don't remember his or my mouth in motion. It's a larger experience than just talking to someone if that makes any sense. (I don't mean magnified.)

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No real emotions except that my children needed me. The experience itself was almost 'business like'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I understood my children needed me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I knew if I said I would go with him that I would not be coming back to take care of my children. I would be 'dead' in the way we understand death. My answer to him was very important.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Yes, but to my knowledge I had not died.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Baptized & confirmed Lutheran, but I practiced some things I had no knowledge of ... but seemed to have religious significance to me.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am open.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- Unitarian and other liberal faiths   I consider myself to be "spiritual" in orientation

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I hadn't thought of it prior to the experience. I had not read or heard anything. It certainly was not anything going on in 65.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Although I had been privileged to have a resident 'ghost,' that was seen by other people as well, during my childhood.  That was 'fun' because there was nothing scary going on. She would just show up sometimes.   I was married at 17 and busy with kids and the usual struggles of youngsters getting married. The incident brought me back to 'thinking' and wondering if there was more. I have attended spiritual events and have a deep belief that there are things we are not aware of most of the time.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   It was just a man, in a suit, talking to me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I had to be there for my children.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am more aware of intuitive issues: healing, spirituality. I really dislike the term 'new age'. It feels kind of 'hippie'. I am very interested and might be described as a seeker of events that would serve to know and understand any after death experiences. That is obviously impossible to prove. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes In that I know it happened and when it happens to others it is real. Not everyone gets to know that much.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I am spot-on-the-button when people ask me about things they have lost or what will happen. I was being trained as a teacher in the Silva Method.  I had to make a living for me and my children so could not pursue that. I wish I could have. Jose Silva was quite remarkable. I don't remember being able to 'find things' prior to the event.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not really. It happened. It was real for me. I was not in pain during the brief experience. I hadn't thought of it prior to the experience. I had not read or heard anything. It certainly was not anything going on in 1965.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Rarely. It's not something one should discuss with just anyone. I am a Realtor and most people would like to think I am sane. It is very common that my clients will say a few words that let me to know they are spiritually oriented. I am very careful not to mention the experience except with my best friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't think so.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It is really long. You might tell people that it will take about 45 min or whatever the average is.  Thank you for doing the work you are doing. It is very valuable and allows people, like me to know it's not just me. There are thousands and thousands of us.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barbara_l_possible_nde.html