{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barbara_g_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Barbara G Probable NDE 7330","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barbara G Probable NDE 7330  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barbara G Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3732 Barbara G Probable NDE 7330  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had several severe spells of anoxia, syncope and collapse throughout the day. When I arrived at home, I was so exhausted from the struggle of the day that I lay down to rest and forgot to put on my oxygen. I fell asleep very fast. My oxygen level must have dropped immediately. 

Suddenly there was no ceiling or roof over my bed, the sun was very bright and the sky was very blue, and there was someone there telling me, ‘come on let's go you can go now you can fly’ and I knew immediately that it was true. I found myself sitting up on my bed feeling more wonderful that I have ever felt in my life.  The empty shell of my body still lay on the bed behind me, but it meant nothing.  I struggled to get free and go. However, it felt like something was tethering me around my legs and holding me down. 

When I finally awoke from the oxygen deprived sleep, with my head pounding, my Tomcat was laying full length on my chest peering into my face.  I knew immediately what I had experienced was no dream. It was very, very real. It's engraved on my memory so clearly as if it just happened yesterday rather than more than 3 years ago.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness.    Other: Undiagnosed condition causing anoxia syncope & collapse  Sudden, unexplained onset of a still undiagnosed medical condition that caused sudden anoxia, syncope and collapse.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the beginning when the roof disappeared until just after I found myself held down and began to struggle, I FELT everything: Every nuance, every subtle sensation.  I FELT the warmth of the light on my face, the touch of cool air, the incredible, wonderful sense of absolutely perfect health and energy.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist: only the now.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity beyond expression

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Silence was deeper.  Words were clearer.  Like I could actually hear & understand everything at once.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       There are no words.  This must be what absolute perfection feels like.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Nothing here is reality.  What we live in here is a chrysalis.  It has no real meaning.  What emerges cannot be defined or described.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was like being paroled from hell and then being forced to return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- New age   I believe in intelligent design.  Variables are too astronomically vast for us to simply have occupied by accident.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had heard of people going toward a bright light or reliving past experiences.  It was not like that at all.  I believe that because I had been working on learning Buddhist principles of acceptance and self forgiveness that it was unnecessary to review the regrets of my past.  I had let go of them all.  Maybe this was why my experience was different.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became more aware of my own influence for good.  It was FAR easier to practice the golden rule and understand from where others are coming.  ALL behavior is learned behavior.  To have ‘learned bad behavior’, someone must first be exposed to it and that is a sad legacy.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   A being, surrounded by a pale blue nimble was standing on the opposite side of the bed inviting me to go.  The presence felt feminine.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No   Just the angel (?) beside the bed

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I was invited to literally "fly away" to where ever my guide came from.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The being that was encouraging me to go was certainly a higher order.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     The past did not exist.  Only the now and where ever our flight would take us.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt so amazing and the being was inviting me to go with them.  I knew that I could do this and struggled to beget free and go.  I love this experience and avidly look forward to being free to go.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No     The last answer pretty much covers it.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It's all there really is.  The source of everything.  But, not what WE label as "love".  There are no words to describe it.  You have to experience it to even begin to have even the most remote inkling.  When you do, however, you DEFINITELY will not try t

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. I am more at peace than I have ever been.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I find patience comes far more easily.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words won't capture it. Language fails.  It is bankrupt.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Like it just happened today.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Sometimes I can feel what others are feeling/thinking.  I am far more sensitive to their energy.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling was so incredibly good.  No stress.  No sickness.  Pure glowing energy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within the week of the experience I told some close friends.  They said that they were grateful to my cat, Cecil.  They believed that he was the tether holding me here.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard/read of some other accounts, but mine was very different from the ones I had read about.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was a live experience.  There was no doubt, NO ‘dream like’ quality. It was an actual event.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barbara_g_probable_nde.html