{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barbara_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Barbara C NDE 25","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barbara C NDE 25  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barbara C NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1505 Barbara C NDE 25  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was undergoing an operation to remove my gall bladder. The first thing I remember was sort of rolling over, and then I felt myself being pulled backwards towards the ceiling. I looked down and saw a person laying on an operating table covered in green drapes. I realized it was me, but didn't feel any remorse at leaving my body. Then I was pulled backwards again only this time at great speed, I was still travelling backwards and was terrified. I reached out to try to grab something to stop myself but there was only blackness. There was blackness like I'd never seen before. I don't know how long this went on for, it could have been a few seconds and then again it could have been a few years! I then heard a sound telling me to 'Go Back'. The sound was neither male nor female it was a bit like music. The next thing I remember was hearing voices telling me to breathe. There seemed to be a bit of a commotion going on.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was like my body was made of light, it still felt like a body but when I looked at it, it wasn't really there!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       One hundred percent.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time didn't seem to exist.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Only the musical voice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was black and very wide.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       See main narrative.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told to go back. It never occurred to me to argue with this!  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm not so rushed and panicky, people matter to me much more. I feel I have a purpose in life.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was totally mind-blowing, fantastic and supernatural.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'd tell when the phone was going to ring or friends were going to visit. I seemed to have a strange energy. The radio would turn on as I passed it. Light globes blow when I press the switch. I started to 'feel' things about people; I have a tremendous urge to heal. I started to see peoples' auras.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was the transformation after it. The worst part was the tremendous speed.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some people think I'm crazy. Some are very interested and ask me loads of questions. Some come to me for help.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Repeated noises freak me out. I can't tolerate loud noises and bright lights.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barbara_c_nde.html