{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barb_m_fde.html","mytitle":"Barb M FDE 9353","mylang":"de"}
          	        Barb M FDE 9353  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Barb M FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						5016 Barb M FDE 9353  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    My husband was drunk, woke me up while I was sleeping. We had an argument, he pushed me on our bed and tried to suffocate me by pushing my head into the bed. He was grabbing my hair to use as leverage and my hair was being torn out of my scalp in handfuls. I was able to keep my head above the bed and pushed him off. 

  As the argument continued he came at me forcing me into the bathroom and up against the bathroom window. He put his forearm to my throat and forced his weight upon my throat. There was a struggle, I was choking, I was in pain. At some point I started seeing a slide show wig my life. It was the strangest thing being in pain and struggling to breathe, then out of know where my life events were on the bathroom wall. A couple of pictures later the entire room lit up like a nighttime football game. The light was blinding, but the light was warm, inviting, peaceful. So very peaceful. It was like a big hug, a never ending beautiful hug. 

  My next memory was being on the floor. Alive.

  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 19, 2019  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Strangulation  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was a depressed, anxious abused wife. There was not much left of my mind before my NDE.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the light experience. It was an amazing peaceful experience. I have never felt that free, at peace or happy.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     First my life slide show started, then the illumination of light then everything stopped. Then I was on the floor.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was the same.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn’t hear anything. I know the tv was on, but I don’t remember hearing it.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright, extremely bright light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was an amazing peaceful experience. I have never felt that free, at peace or happy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     When I saw the bright light, I realized the slideshow of my life was my life passing before me.  That the bright light was the end.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     A slide show of life events.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe I am spiritual now. I feel closer to people in a way I never had experienced before.  

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic   Spiritual  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I did not believe in NDE  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Live your best life. Live like your going to die.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have No fear in life after the experience. I lead a destructive personal life. I put myself in danger everyday. I have put my physical wants above all safety. I have No fear of death. I have become very patient, understanding and am more secure in my being.   I have heightened senses. Touch, sight, hearing and smell. Are the senses I have a greater awareness for. Taste not so much.   I have a greater spirituality. Sometimes I feel like I’m not the same person I was before the experience. I do things I would never have done ever.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I just don’t care what people think. If they want to be in my life I am loving them unconditionally.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The peaceful beautiful feeling. Euphoric it was.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The police, psychologist, friends and family.   The professionals were professional.   My friends and family were amazed. And they are concerned for my lack of safety.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I feel reborn into a new person. My life took on a new perspective. Why fear death or harm? I’ve been there. I’m not afraid to go there again.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened!! I don’t understand it. I don’t know how or why it happened.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barb_m_fde.html