{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1barami_nde.html","mytitle":"BaRaMi NDE 10095","mylang":"de"}
          	        BaRaMi NDE 10095  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					BaRaMi NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						476  BaRaMi NDE  10095  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was crossing the reservoir with one of my friends without bathing suits, putting up the trousers. I was poor at swimming and I miscalculated the width of the reservoir, I made a mistake 500~500 M for 150~200 M. when reaching the middle of the reservoir, My trousers fell down and I had a cramp. I pull down my trousers and threw it to my friend, and I was sunk into the water. It was dark and stuffy. I popped out of the water and I drew my breath, and the water sunk me down again. It was dark and stuffy again. I got out of the water and breathed again and I went down into the water three times. I felt languid and feeble and saw the bright light. I am calm and no panic, no breathless. I felt very good. My body and mind felt completely peaceful. It seemed that I was under the water for a long time. I wanted to stay there but I headed upwards and raised my hand because I felt a little stuffy. I reached the top of the water very quickly.  I could see a boat around me. I went down into the water again. When I popped out of the water again, the boat came to me.

Background Information:

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very consciously. I was perplexed and stuffy but when I was sunk into the water three times I felt good and peaceful

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was  very bright

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Completely bright. My body and mind felt calm and peaceful, and I felt good. It was like a holy ecstasy.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I don’t grasp at swimming. I don’t grasp beyond my ability  about other things

After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     sometimes, I saw the future in my dream.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I saw a bright light unter the dark water and felt good at the level of ecstasy and felt very peaceful. My body and mind felt peace and calm (very comfortable)

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They show no interest

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   Driving into the wind (Hallas – heavy sandy wind) in Arabia is like being sunk into the deep sea

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1barami_nde.html