{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1banu_u_nde.html","mytitle":"Banu U NDE 7985","mylang":"de"}
          	        Banu U NDE 7985  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Banu U NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4142 Banu U NDE 7985  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I broke my nose when I was 7 years old.  My Mom picked me up from school and took me directly to the doctor.  After he checked my nose, he told me that I could only have rhinoplastic aesthetic surgery after I reached 18 years old. 

When I turned age 18,  my mom and I went to the hospital for surgery. Very early in the morning,  the doctor's nurse took me to the operation room. They helped me to lay down on to the surgery bed and the anesthesia doctor injected me with the anesthesia. I was under general anesthesia.  

After that,  I saw a very deep Black tunnel and there was an incredible light at the end of the tunnel. I could see some shadows that were like people, but I could only see their shadows. It sounded to me like they were waiting there for me at the end of the tunnel.  My head was turned towards that incredible light and my earthly body was rolling towards right side and left side. Some of the shadows were long in height, while some of them were short and some were medium height. I saw about 15 to 20 shadows of people. I couldn't reach to those people and suddenly felt my soul like it's vacuumed back to my body. As I was trying to open my eyes while I  felt the doctor's hand pressing on my nose to stick bandages around my face.

I remember that my whole body was so cold. Mom was waiting in front of the operation room. She was whispering prayers. Then,  everyone altogether took me to my private room. My mom was thanking God continuously.  After I came to, I told everything to Mom. 

She said to me that it's was three hours since I was in the operation room. At the end of the operation, the nurses were in a rush.  They were hurried and nervous, carrying many oxygen tubes.    She said to me that she asked the nurses if those oxygen tubes were for me.  They did not reply back to her.  After months passed, I talked with one of the nurses who were there for my operation. I have been told that I woke up in the middle of the operation and anesthesia doctor injected me with a second shot with a much higher dose. Then they lost my Heartbeat, my pulse, and then my blood pressure. 

All I can say is that it was a great experience. I didn't feel any pain. My whole body and my whole soul was in peace and joy. It was a Great Feeling!  I am not afraid of dying because I assume that people meet their loved ones and relatives there.  Thank You.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Only the consciousness of peace, pleasantness, happiness, and love that you feel these feelings at the highest level

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was under general anesthesia.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Time seemed to go faster. It is something like you go to sleep, you dream and you wake up. Many hours passed away but I actually felt like it was like 5 minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Any of the word in this world is not enough to explain the vision and the feeling. My soul becomes fully at peace. Love. Love that has no limits. My Soul is joyful. I feel happiness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It is the same hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     All around me was Black.  I felt like I was in a hole or a tunnel. But there was a bright light at the end of that tunnel, which I was trying to reach.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright light you see.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       PEACE. LOVE. HAPPINESS. JOY

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Muslim

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had and have beliefs still, but this experience was not related to religion. It is something related to your own soul.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Some beings seemed as shadows of people waiting for me to reach them to be together.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I answered this question.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     God definitely exists

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     People who appeared as shadows with different heights.  They were waiting for me at the end of the tunnel while I was rolling through the bright light.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Your thoughts are empty and you are filled with an incredible big love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I became more mature and felt like this is my second chance to continue my life. I feel I'm rewarded with a second life chance. Maybe I had things to complete in this world or maybe I have to help to someone.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Became more sensitive to my parents; my family came first all the time.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is the feeling that I have is the hardest part to explain it to other people. They might think that I am close to being Crazy or that I am Crazy.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I personally remember more accurately just like now.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had an astral travel. My sixth sense became more powerful.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Shadows of waiting people at the end of Black tunnel affected me a Lot.  The Bright light was meaningful and incredible. The feeling of peace and love was amazing!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A Day after my experience, I shared it with Mom. She understood me very well. Mom prays more to have me back.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I started doing my own research to see if anybody had the same experience or if it was different from mine. I had no idea why and how this happened.  I was only 18 years old. Most of them had the close experience to mine, some of them different.  It is because maybe they passed over and returned. I was not allowed to cross over. I was sent back.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I had a real experience of near to death. I believe I died but sent back. Wished I could have stayed there, because I deeply feel the peace and love in my soul. Nothing in this theatrical earthly living life could surprise me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       ’In which part you liked the most and why?’ You can add this question to ask, maybe.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1banu_u_nde.html