{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bahman_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Bahman R NDE 7456","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bahman R NDE 7456  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bahman R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3803 Bahman R NDE 7456  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I fell and hit the back of my head on the ground. I felt so much pain! I think that my body was unable to tolerate so much pain. 

I saw a white space and then I began seeing the tunnel. It was a black and white color combination over the walls of the tunnel. The tunnel walls had images of somebody that was familiar to me. I think they were my parents and my grandfather who had died years before the time of NDE. I remember that I was watching my past years of life and the different events flashed by at an unbelievable speed. 

When I woke up, that was the weirdest thing I ever experienced I ever had. How is possible to see so many events in these few seconds!!?? I can say that during those moments, I felt half peace and half horror. I don't remember what the events in the life review were, even after I woke up.  But I can say, some events that I was watching over the walls of the tunnel were horrible and some were peaceful. I remember the darkness. There was a deep darkness in the last episode of my NDE experience. The tunnel faded and then began the absolute darkness. 

After that, I began to gradually realize my earthly environment. I saw two people near me. I asked them, ‘How long was I was asleep?’ They told me about 10-20 seconds. After that, I realized what was happening. I felt peace like the calm after the typhoon. In one or two hours, I was in a strange peaceful feeling and then I became completely normal.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1383

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I had a direct head injury, life threatening event, but not clinical death.  I was in a friendly fight with one of my friends, and then I jumped to catch his body. I failed doing to catch him; he took my legs out from underneath me.  I couldn’t control the top part of my body and my head hit the earth!  Immediately I felt so much pain.  Then, I began to experience an NDE with the tunnel and other things.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I think that my understanding was more than normal understanding but during the NDE, understanding was different in type. I can say that I felt sobriety and understanding; I mean I was FEELING an understanding that is pretty much different with normal understanding.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I woke up, when I became sober

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Incredibly fast

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Speed:  All I can say is that the speed of events that I could see in a specific limit of time was really faster.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don’t remember my hearing quality during the NDE, sorry.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A black/white-colored tunnel that I was moving toward the end of it, well actually I think that I was stable and the tunnel was moving.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     He was my grandfather; I don't remember what his state was.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the first part of journey there was a white color, at the end there was a deep dark color. An unusually bright light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I even didn't remember this world during the seconds of the NDE. It was a landscape or city.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace Horror Dread Relief or calmness both pleasant AND distressing

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     I remembered many past events, I really don’t remember what the events were but I can say that I reviewed more than half of my life-events in my NDE in 20 seconds!

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim   I was religious, doing all rituals in Islam

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am religious, doing all rituals in Islam

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Peace I think  the peace was wired to me

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No   I actually saw them.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I do not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly feared death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I think during NDEI reviewed my painful events of my past life

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Sometimes I don't know which word I must choose to describe my NDE experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No, all of it meant so much to me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About 8 years later, they were surprised and I can say shocked

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Peace: I think the peace was wired to me. I do not fear death. An afterlife definitely exists. I think during the NDE I reviewed my painful events of my past life. God definitely exists.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, it was good.  Good luck :)      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bahman_r_nde.html