{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1bahar_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Bahar Y NDE 9475","mylang":"de"}
          	        Bahar Y NDE 9475  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Bahar Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5093 Bahar Y NDE 9475  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  When I was about 4 or 5 years old, I went to a swimming pool with the children of my kindergarten class. I jumped into the deep side of the pool when I couldn't swim.  I immediately sunk.  I was scared and tried to move my hands and feet to go up.  My head surfaced for a short moment. I wanted to scream for help, but then I was pulled back down again.  I then swirled again with my hands and feet trying to come back up again. 

Then I could see from above my body how my teacher was swimming towards me.  She pulled me out and put me on the floor. All the children had been standing around. I didn't think about anything and didn't feel any sadness, fear, or bliss. Unfortunately, I also didn't see relatives or other light beings. I also didn't see a tunnel or anything else that other's describe.  I only watched while I was out of body, that's all.

  When I was asked why I couldn't swim, I always talked about the event at the time.  Nobody ever asked how I could see this from above.  It never occurred to me to ask about it either.  It was only after my brother died three years ago and when I started to deal with the topic of death.  I came across the topic of NDE and then I remembered my own experience. Two months ago, I called my kindergarten where I went to school to see if I could get in touch with my teacher.  She could not help me.  I wanted so much to hear from her to see if this happened in the way I remembered it. I'm 100% sure, but I would like to have it confirmed. I also remember that up until the age of ten years old, I had a ghost friend. I could see and hear him.  I told him to leave so I can't see or hear him anymore.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 About 30 years ago  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drowning.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death     
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see from above that my teacher was swimming to me. She took me out of the pool and was putting me on the floor. All the other children have been standing around us.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   Normal consciousness  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The same  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember having heard anything during the experience.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

  What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was only observing without emotions  
  
Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Muslim     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     After the experience, I could see ghost beings.  
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I can still remember this event very thoroughly, but of other childhood experiences I remember next to nothing.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Because I still can remember it strongly.  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

  At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   bout three years  after the passing of my brother.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1bahar_y_nde.html