{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1az_nde_2034.html","mytitle":"Az NDE 2034","mylang":"de"}
          	        Az NDE 2034  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Az NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						485  Az NDE  2034  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I had a routine outpatient surgery on my kidney which accidentally ruptured my spleen. Fifteen hours later, my husband took me to the emergency room. An inept staff left me waiting in the lobby for more than half an hour during which time I lost consciousness. I have no memory of being taken from the lobby to the emergency room, of being undressed, or of being placed on a gurney.

I do remember looking down at myself on the gurney, wearing a hospital gown, surrounded by a doctor in green scrubs, a dark-haired nurse in blue on my left and two other people, one partially bald, on my right side. My husband was not present. Everyone was busily working to hook me to oxygen and fluids. My vantage point seems to have been the ceiling as I was looking at the tops of everyone's' heads.

Suddenly, I was in my body again, talking to the doctor. I was not frightened at all, but I do remember thinking that God was watching over me, sending this wonderful team of doctors and nurses to save my life. I received four pints of blood and was in critical condition for four days. Today, three weeks afterward, I am at home, recovering slowly. I am sure I was near death that day and have been intensely aware of God's presence ever since.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September 9, 2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was bleeding internally and had already lost a great deal of blood.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was looking down on the medical team working on me. There was no realization that I was re-entering my body, although I suspect it occurred when the oxygen was administered.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I seemed to be viewing the scene from the ceiling so I guess you'd call that altered space.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I experienced calm confidence that God was protecting me from further harm.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     God is so real to me now that I have no fear of the future or death at all.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     God is so real to me now that I have no fear of the future or death at all.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew without doubt that God was with me.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love my husband, my family and friends more than ever and credit their support for my recovery.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The profound feeling that God was with me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    This is all so fresh in my memory that I have shared it with several people, including those who came to visit and pray with me in the hospital. No one seemed particularly surprised and some said they had similar experiences. The best influence for me has been the enhanced beauty of the world, the increased love for my family, and the knowledge of the presence of God.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have read other peoples' accounts.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is as clear as any memory I possess.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1az_nde_2034.html