{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1austin_t_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Austin T Probable NDE 3678","mylang":"de"}
          	        Austin T Probable NDE 3678  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Austin T Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1677 Austin T Probable NDE 3678  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In a state of depression over the end of a romantic relationship, I attempted suicide with an overdose of heart medication. I was ready to die.

I saw in the center of my vision an infinitely small, tiny black dot. I realized that this tiny dot of blackness is in everyone's vision at all times. It is so small, like looking at the tip of a needle head-on; not in profile. It is so small that we cannot notice it, but it is always in front of us, and in everything that we see. No matter where we look, it is always in the center of everything that we look at. It is death.

The tiny black dot grew larger, not because it had changed size (it didn't), but because I became closer to it. Finally, it grew until it covered my entire field of vision.

At that point, I was in a different place with two or three other beings. They were much taller than I was. I felt very small and insignificant beside them. They were very compassionate to me, despite how inconsequential I was compared to them.

I was shown my life, and they talked about it. They pointed out an event in my childhood when I was four or five years old, and one of them said to the others, 'That's why he had to do great things,' and the others agreed.

I didn't know what they were talking about, and I wanted to know what they meant, but suddenly I was a million miles away from them. I was back in my body, in my room, in my bed. I slept a long time, but I remembered.

I didn't know what they meant by 'great things', but since then, I have performed at the White House three times (musician), and I produce a radio program which is broadcast all over the world and heard by over a million people each week, and many other things.

I didn't realize it at the time, but years later, I realized that their words had come true, and that my suicide attempt was a stupid mistake, and that I was given a second chance.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Other suicide attempt via drug overdose  Suicide attempt.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When the black dot was everything.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the black dot was everything.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like a round, black hole.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Two or three tall beings. They showed me my life and were compassionate to me. I was shown my life, and they talked about it.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, compassion.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was shown an event when I was four or five. My mother was a young, troubled, immature woman. I misbehaved, and she was irritated with me. I asked her if she still loved me, expecting her to say, 'Yes, of course I do,' but instead, she blurted out bluntly, 'No!' I was only four or five, but I felt as if the ground beneath my feet had fallen away. I suddenly had no one, and nowhere to go.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     In retrospect, many years later, I understood the meaning of what they said.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I know that death is way less scary than life.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I know that death is way less scary than life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I trust that I have a destiny to fulfill, and that I no longer try to quash my intuition.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had previously tried to smother my intuition as 'occult', which is forbidden by my religious upbringing. But after the experience, I realized that this kind of intuition is just another talent or gift. It is the ability to sense danger, or evil intent.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Anecdotal.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would say that suicide is rarely, if ever, a good choice.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thank you for this opportunity, and for obviously putting much time and effort into this project. Your kind compassion is evident in the thoroughness of your work. All good things to you and yours.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1austin_t_probable_nde.html