{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1austin_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Austin T NDE 4930","mylang":"de"}
          	        Austin T NDE 4930  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Austin T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2528 Austin T NDE 4930  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It has been many years. When I died in the tank with the corrosive chemicals I fell over a pipe (IMPORTANT). Immediately I was gone from my body but I had a body. The first thing I can remember is the feeling. I could feel other beings' feelings of (let me search for words that will not be good enough) Happiness, Contentment, Knowledge, Overpowering wellbeing, no problems! I could feel their Happiness going ALL through my being!

The next thing was that it was different from daylight or dark, another color that I cannot describe. Later I remembered GOD created day and night.

People that I knew I was coming. They were there waiting to greet and comfort me. I started asking questions like a Child. I asked two questions when I and Everyone else Knew to be quiet and we All did!

Someone that I could not see spoke one sentence, one sentence that answered every question that I had ever asked and every question that I would ever ask forever!!! I guess the best way for me to describe it would be to say that I was immediately Enlightened!!!!!! All of a sudden, I felt the same happiness as everyone else. I was now part of it!!!!!

I was enjoying it when one of the Ones that had come to greet me told me it was time to go back and reached for my right arm and I popped back into my earth body as they were lifting me out of the tank.

I was not able to communicate very well with people because of the chemical effect but I held on to that sentence with every fiber of my being and repeated it over and over again and again to myself and I understood everything, everything!!! (Unfortunately, when I returned to my body, I wasn't allowed to remember it.)

I knew that if I could communicate that sentence to one live human it would take over their life too and they would turn and tell another and it would spread all over this world. I had the ability to fix this world.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1976

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Overcame by chemicals poured into tank for days to eat away a clog of paint. My Boss told me he would &quot;whip my a$$ and fire me&quot; if I did not climb down and remove the clog. So I tried.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Self explanatory.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Self explanatory.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     see above

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Humans do not have words to describe this experience!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     GOD took me aside to help me!!!!

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I guess You'd say Baptist.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     GOD took me aside to help me!!!!

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes How could they not be affected? That was a Great Blessing!!!!!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was and is above human understanding. Wonderful is not sufficient.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Several.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They cannot understand. I know they are not supposed to be able to. This world is like it is for a reason. But I take the time to comfort some.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is as real as I am.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Thank You Our FATHER Who art in Heaven!!!! and Angels!!!!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I must go for now, I have to help my Wife.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1austin_t_nde.html