{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1aurora_nde.html","mytitle":"Aurora NDE 6535","mylang":"de"}
          	        Aurora NDE 6535  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Aurora NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3223 Aurora NDE 6535  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was standing out in the yard wrapped in a bed sheet. I had my phone in my hand. I was watching a thunderstorm and the lightening was very intense. The air was dry and the clouds rolled black. I was replying to a text, and as soon as I pressed send, everything stopped. Slow motion and seconds seemed like minutes. I think the whole course of the event only took about a minute but it felt more like ten to fifteen. I could see a white light to my left, like when you stare at a light too long and there's a light from it everywhere you look. I don't think I was breathing and my body felt heavy and I started to lower almost to my knees. 

Before I hit the ground, I couldn't feel my body and I could see myself from an angle above. It was the strangest thing to look down at yourself. It's the hardest thing to try to describe, but before I saw myself hit the ground, I was shot back in. 

All I could smell was something burnt and my skin felt electric with constant static. As I regained feeling in my legs, I noticed it was pouring rain outside. As soon as I was able, I ran inside my house and jumped into a chair. My heart was racing and it hurt to breathe and everything I touched I shocked. I had left my phone outside and I'm to guess it's the cause for what happened. Still to this day it's bad for me to touch trampolines or wool, anything with a lot of static because I get a huge shock and its hard touching people sometimes because I shock them.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 20, 2011
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I regained feeling in my legs.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see a 360 range around me. It was as if I could see the whole section of the town at once, like a third eye. I was aware of myself falling away, but it felt like I could see everyone of interest laying in their beds sound asleep not aware of anything.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I couldn't hear anything, like a TV's fuzzy screen.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Scared. Fear. Regret. I was so scared. I didn't want to die. I had the feeling that I knew I was over, and my life was no more. It was a very sad desolate experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     i didnt hear any voice or see golden gates. no one but myself the feeling of alone.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Only purpose I found was to live my mortal life as much as I could and never take its frail life for granted.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       I am uncertain if an afterlife exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     mainly the feeling to not doubt anything again, and to always try to do as much as possible while we still can.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     only feeling was regret that i never found any in my mortal life.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     More importance to life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I don't really hang out with anyone anymore. I prefer solitude and I kind of think everyone makes stupid decisions around me and I can't handle that because I think negatively towards what people think, do and say.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   it feels like it was yesterday, its always on my mind.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I wouldn't call it a gift, but I'm way more aware of everything around me and have a lot of dΘjα vu and I shock people like crazy. It's actually embarrassing after a while when people notice.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Only meaningful because it helps me realize how fragile our mortal lives are.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    I have shared kind of what happened, but not actually told them everything. It's not like they would believe me or understand. I just keep it short and say I got zapped because I was texting.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My mom had one that sort of relates to mine. She said she could see herself and she felt light, but when she returned to her body she felt like her body was gross and heavy and she felt happy without it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I wasn't on drugs, but I know I was in shock but I don't think that has anything to really do with it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably not real      I was just so scared I didn't really have time to know exactly what was going on.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Only comment of advice, is go through you're questions as some of them are kind of repeated.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1aurora_nde.html