{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1aurora_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Aurora N NDE 3077","mylang":"de"}
          	        Aurora N NDE 3077  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Aurora N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1105  Aurora N NDE  3077  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Well the nurse told me to count to ten. It seemed like I had just closed my eyes yet opened them. Like my mind was wide awake. I was going through a dark tunnel. It seemed like a part of me was scared of lying on the bed. I looked left and right but all I could see was the fast speed that I was going through the tunnel then I saw some light at the end of the tunnel. Before I knew it, I was standing there in heaven. I could hear the angels sing in the most beautiful voice one can't imagine. Then I heard the voice of the Lord, like he was in front of the angels and I was trying to go through, but God said it was not my time. But I wanted to go in. Then God said turn and look. (It's a voice you obey.) So I turned and I could see all the doctors there working on me, like when you look out a window and see the full moon so close, I too saw myself. When I turned back to tell the Lord I wanted to stay. I woke-up back in my body; I woke crying, the nurse though I was crying because I had lost my baby. She told me they had lost me for a minute and was glad I was all right.

Yes, I cried because I lost my baby later that same day. But I woke crying because I wanted to stay up in heaven with God.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    12/01/1976

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Childbirth  'Baby was dead inside and I was bleeding inside I didn't know what was going on I had very, very bad pain.'  Other 'MISCARRIAGE, BLEEDING HEAVY,SEVERE PAIN.'.  I was put to sleep by gas - in which the nurse told me I had died for a minute when she woke me up. (I woke up crying because I didn't want to come back.)


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   To me it seem as if I were conscious all through the whole experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      To me it seem as if I were conscious all through the whole experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    In my experience I could see well although there were clouds all around, like you can see better, much better than one's 20/20 vision.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Well you can hear music without a doubt so beautiful like you never hear anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I was going through a tunnel at a very fast pace.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I meet with God almighty. However, I didn't see him only a beautiful bright cloud and I could hear the angels sing so beautiful.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw a light at the end of the tunnel and before I knew it I was standing there in heaven.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     THE EXPERIENCE ITSELF WAS DISTINCTIVE AND IT WAS A DIMENSIONS ONE I FEEL THAT VERY FEW CAN EXPERIENCE.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Something so beautiful that you just can't explain. It's a peaceful wonderful feeling. It's a yearning I have within me to return one day. The day God has planned for me. It's a feeling that you just don't want to come back!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   FAITH/NONDENOMANATIONAL

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate   FAITH

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I strongly now believe that God can see us very well and that heaven does exist.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The peace, the whole experience. Only others who have experienced an out of body can relate to the beauty of such a voyage.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Well I felt a peace, a sense of belonging.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    The same day. Wow! That's incredible. Others have also testified that they too have had a similar experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Well it was like when you've taken a vacation and had a great time. You saw things you never saw before. However, it's engraved in your mind therefore your remember very well your experience. And know that the place exists, because you visited.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It's like your spirit who is a living thing. Left my body and in returning you absolutely know that you had a voyage out of your body.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I just want to thank you for this website in which I got to read experiences of others!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1aurora_n_nde.html