{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1augustin_nde.html","mytitle":"Augustin NDE 2872","mylang":"de"}
          	        Augustin NDE 2872  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Augustin NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1110  Augustin NDE  2872  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I found myself on active military duty in the city of Melilla. At that time, I had a cold and high fever. I was very weak - trembling - so I sought relief in the infirmary. There, they decided to inject me with penicillin, which produced a fading of consciousness and then a lack of consciousness. This I found out later, because the liquid entered my body at the same time that I fainted.

Without feeling pain, nor wanting it to happen, I began to see myself as if dissolved on the floor. The orderlies were alarmed. They picked me up and placed me onto the cot, making at the same time comments about my backside and wanting to revive me. Then, the room folded in from the ceiling and I started rising, each time faster and higher, until I was no longer in the place where this had occurred. I started to feel an extraordinary liberation of my soul from my body. It was as if I had been released from a lifetime sentence; as if my body had been my jail (without being conscious of this until now). Everything that connected me to it was heavy and burdensome: having to breathe, having to move my body, etc., as if the bonds from childhood carried family, friends, acquaintances, the town, etc. Finally, I released everything that tied me and I returned home, to my mother's arms, to unite me to that everything of which I was part, which I had sought since birth.

I soon found myself in a space and place unknown to me, having arrived there at a velocity I was unfamiliar with, with a force of attraction like that of metal to a magnet. I entered a place where it started to turn dark as if I was inside a cloud, and it was becoming denser and darker, and in that darkness, which became almost total, I glimpsed a tiny star or light, which, from the exact time I noticed it, attracted me without hesitation towards it, with the same breakneck speed and velocity. At the same time, my love, or the most marvelous feeling that can be experienced, was becoming larger, the closer I got, my exultation overflowed, the light each time larger or it was emanating from someplace - I don't know. The idea is that I found myself in that light. So brilliant, so white, but without disturbing me.  It was pure energy, the force, the love, the life - I was already home. The sensations are indescribable as we are very limited in this life; over there, was an unknown world of new sensations opening up - of understanding of what, up until then, has not been understood by you, and you do love, my God, how you love.

And then, I felt as if someone approached to receive me, until I felt his presence directly in front of me. As if with a human form but without a physical body, everything was light and energy and love, and we communicated perfectly, not speaking but with thought and the mind. I started to be aware of more beings like him that surrounded us and received me. I could not be contained in my joy and contentment; everything was peace and harmony and I began fully to inhabit that space which was mine.

But the way was denied me by something; they did not yet expect me, and this unique being said that I should go back and there was no other option; it was not my decision, but the most convenient, much to my regret. I began to hear other voices, to note how I closed my eyes without wanting to, and accepted what was said: 'You still have things to do with your love!' - which is the bargaining chip; it's the only thing that will let you stay there; not only that you love and that you love a lot, but also that you are loved, and loved much, as that will be the telling sign.

All your acquired liberties start fading and you start to become conscious that you have to enter once again that body, that you must return to breathing, you become conscious of who you are, all over again; you feel the voices (of the nurses). I didn't want to open my eyes.  I wanted to return. I did everything to return, but once again I was in the infirmary, desolate, sick.  I can't believe what I have lived, felt, and the worst thing - now I know it.  You must live until you don't know when, but with the happiness at the same time of knowing that I will return and that they await me and I will do everything possible for that to be the case. And it is so easy and it is so easy and simple.

Only LOVE.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

  Date NDE Occurred: 	 April 1980  
  
NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Allergic reaction       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The consciousness that we have here is unconsciousness; here we are limited.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     There is no time. It does not exist and neither does space. It is like another dimension.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     A new world is opened, more comprehensive. All has an explanation, origin and a function; there are no questions, all is known.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I repeat the same as before, there are no limits; a new world is opened - of which we know only the very tip.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I am not clear yet: whether it is a closed space from where one exits, or a dark space, where the light attracts us.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Those beings were part of me or I was part of them: force, energy, life, and love.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Marvelous; it was white as you can get, without it blinding you.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     en primer lugar un espacio como la nada,vacio pero oscureciendose cada vez mas.luego ese espacio oscuro donde comence a ver la luz,y por ultimo la luz en si.un espacio donde radica la paz la armonia la energia la vida y el AMOR.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete freedom.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I was conscious of everything; I did not have to remember anything. Yes, that LOVE is the most important of all.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I notice that I am more sensitive and I have premonitions.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The mind is opened; there is knowledge, comprehension. It is pure truth. There is nothing secret, nor hidden.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Certain intuitions.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Several months passed, because I did not think that I would be believed. I kept it like a secret, wishing to share it. Finally, I found people who experienced the same situation, and I shared.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was real, believe me; and also believe that I love you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1augustin_nde.html