{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1audie_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Audie M NDE 3750","mylang":"de"}
          	        Audie M NDE 3750  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Audie M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1746 Audie M NDE 3750  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a very high temperature as a result of having Scarlet Fever. I went above my body and could see through the walls. I was in the hospital at the time, and could see the nurses in their canteen. They were saying how sick I was and were eating my pears, as I would not need them. I love pears, and my mother could not normally afford them, but had bought them for a special treat. I then went to my home and saw my mother and father getting ready to come to the hospital to see me. I tried to tell them about the pears, but they couldn't see me.

I recall feeling very peaceful and quite interested in everything that was going on around my earthly body, but enjoyed floating and being able to go where I wished.

I didn't want to go back into my body. I remember floating directly above my body - there was nobody else in the room - and I had to make the decision whether to go back or not. I obviously decided to go back, but I don't know why.

I don't know what happened next.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1960

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    very high temperature due to Scarlet Fever  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was later told that I had nearly died.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   All of it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All of it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There didn't seem to be any time as such. It seemed like everything was everywhere at the same time. There was no dimension of time. I could be at two places at the same time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see everywhere and through walls.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     As it was so long ago, I can't remember.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, curiosity, anger at the nurses for eating my pears. Worry that my parents would not arrive in time.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Strong Roman Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I always felt unloved as a child, but the episode with the pears changed my mind and showed me that my parents, particularly my mother, loved me very much.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mother at the time and she was very skeptical. She had to acknowledge that I knew about the dress she was wearing at home and couldn't explain how I knew. She also confirmed that my pears were mysteriously missing. She told me not to tell anybody else as they would think I was mad.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was definitely real, but unexplainable. Even now, almost fifty years later, I can remember as clearly as when it happened. As I haven't mentioned it to many people over the years, many other details have probably been forgotten, but the main part is clear as day.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have also head of other similar experiences from other people.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am so glad to be able to be part of a survey, as for years I was told maybe I imagined it, but I know it was real.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It was great, thanks.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1audie_m_nde.html