{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1attila_d_fde.html","mytitle":"Attila D FDE 4106","mylang":"de"}
          	        Attila D FDE 4106  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Attila D FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			1980 Attila D FDE 4106  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had only passed my car driving test for a couple of weeks, but my dad let me drive his car as I never owned my own car at the time.

The car was a Ford Granada 2.8 GL, which was a big car for a first time driver. Anyway, I picked my friend up and we went for a drive around Nottingham, we approached a sweeping bend, which as two lanes on either side of the road, the only separation of oncoming traffic is the center white line, I am doing forty mph overtaking a single decker bus. I try to drive past while on the bend, but the bus is going pretty fast too, and slowly drifting into my lane while I am overtaking it. The road is busy in the opposite direction; I remember seeing a blue or black Ford Fiesta coming towards me. The problem was that I went more towards the oncoming traffic due to the bus drifting out of the lane.

At the point of impact, all I remember after that was a big flash like those old cameras they used many years ago were they put the material over their heads and they made a bit of smoke. It was a very big white flash. Then all I saw (which was in black and white) was like an old film reel flicking through my whole life very fast with little flashes. I saw my whole childhood from being in my mum's stomach, my parents holding me, who I had met in my family, my brothers, sisters, grandparents etc. It was very bizarre to me. The strange thing is that I drove from the point of impact and around a bend, sweeping left and then right over a train bridge where there were traffic lights at the bottom of the train bridge. I would say from the point of impact to the lights it is two hundred meters, but I woke up or whatever happened to me physically I have no idea at the traffic lights in a perfectly parked position with traffic driving around me. My friend was terrified curled up in the passenger seat pressed against the door very white shaking and said, 'What the f**k happened to you?!' I could not even speak. I did not know where I was. At first, I replied in a calming fashion, 'I don't know.' He said, 'Take me home!' I never saw or spoke with him since that evening. I would love to ask him what I was doing. It took me a lot to tell this story which I have had with me all these years. I am a caring loving person in general but I do know what I saw that day.

When I finally got home, my dad and elder brother were in the kitchen when I got back home, and I just said I nearly had a head on crash and it frightened me so much that I did not want to drive again. My dad said it was due to lack of experience with a car, which I think is true, but I saw that car coming towards me and I thought I was going to die.

It was around five years ago when my brother and me were talking about what happened and what I saw that day. He browsed the web and we came across NDEs and life reviews. It was so strange that the life review is what happened to me, so I have finally told the story. It's very true what I saw that day. I feel there is something out there now but I hope it was real at the same time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I thought I was going to have an head on collision with a Ford Fiesta car that was approaching in the opposite direction.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I woke or whatever happened to me while seeing these pictures, it was at the traffic lights, but I felt dazed.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had no vision only the pictures or what it was after the big flash, I never saw the real world until I came around at the traffic lights.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was so strange I could hear the reel of film flicking so fast, and strange noises, was it the people talking I don't know sorry.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Not from what I remember; just the big white flashes then my life on a reel of film.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     All my life and family, but in a film flicking very fast.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The biggest flash of white light almost felt blinding.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It seemed like my life except i went back to being a baby being born then growing up.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was very strange, but I was relaxed very relaxed, I was not in the outside world at the time.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw everything, growing up, being in my mum's tummy; this is so strange explaining it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have never forgot what I saw or happened, but I don't know what happened on the outside of me while I was seeing these images, I had no contact with the real world while I saw these pictures and flashing white light.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Do I believe in God, Jesus, not really, but I think there is something out there, I believe in other worlds like earth, the universe is huge, there has to be something else out there we cannot be the only living planet that I do think.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Do I believe in God, Jesus, not really, but I think there is something out there, I believe in other worlds like earth, the universe is huge, there has to be something else out there we cannot be the only living planet that I do think.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I feel better in myself to be honest, I know there is something special, I truly believe when people almost die or do die, I am sure they may see what I saw, or stay there or come back I have no idea.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I just don't know maybe I changed after the event in some way.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     After this event not straight after, but my mum and dad's old house was Victorian and I can honestly say I saw a shadow walk across the living room while the whole family was watching the TV of a tall man, but a lot of strange things happened in that house while I was growing up.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing my whole life from being a baby.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my family when it happened but they said I was just frightened because I almost crashed the car, but my brother believes me now, after finding life reviews on the internet.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Very strange, almost did not seem real, where was I at the time of this event, how did that car drive if I was somewhere else.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Amazing for me as the years have gone on, I feel like someone is watching out for me, but I am not frightened of dying now.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not really.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1attila_d_fde.html