{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1atlanta_nde.html","mytitle":"Atlanta NDE 6925","mylang":"de"}
          	        Atlanta NDE 6925  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Atlanta NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3473 Atlanta NDE 6925  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I come from a history of violent abuse and therefore had learned to leave my body when it was in my best interest to do so. That is NOT the same as a NDE. I left my body in the accident due to pain, but was conscious and able to talk like controlling a puppet. I gave my social security number, phone number, and insurance policy number.

The Emergency Room nurse visited me several times during my 4-month stay, as she had never seen anything like a person in my state able to communicate. I had nine units of blood that night. My leg was shattered, foot torn off, ribs and arm broken. I saw a tunnel in Intensive Care Unit due to loss of blood. I had a continuous OBE, but no NDE until 3 days later when an unchecked pneumothorax caused 'loss of consciousness'. 

This was also an OBE, but not like any I had ever had. This time I was leaving my body behind. I felt as if I was in the hospital room AND in another realm at the same time, at first. I knew everyone in the room and everything that was said and even what people were thinking. Later, it scared them and most staff refused to talk to me about it. 

I met my father who I never really knew as he had died when I was three. I never thought about him much and wasn't looking for anyone.  I thought it strange that he appeared. He guided me to a place where there were millions of souls who were loving and accepting of me. I kept saying 'I don't deserve to be here' and they assured me it was where I belonged. I remember questioning why everything felt more real than anything ever had in my life! My brain was in a broken body and it seemed I had 'pure consciousness without a material brain'. I began to understand why we live when an authoritative 'voice' said, ‘NO. She is not ready’. I did not want to return, and tried to protest, but found myself 'slammed' back into my pain-ridden body. 

I did not suffer a serious head injury, but the neurologist assigned to me wanted to study this 'NDE'.  I had several surgeries (13) over the next 4 months. The Neurologist decided to use KETAMINE 4 times for anesthesia to see if it reproduced the NDE. It did not: I had OBE's and imaginative 'trips' but nothing like the NDE.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 11 1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Pneumothorax in ICU 3 days after accident caused cessation of breathing and heart beat for short period. Arterial blood gasses were those of an already dead person according to the respiratory therapist. They kept the arterial line for several days and blood gasses were monitored 4 times a day.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As stated, I knew everything the medical team did. Who they were, what they did and even what they were thinking and how they felt.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before they brought me back, it felt like I was not limited to a material brain. I felt connected to everything. Speech was unnecessary, as communication by thought was possible; as was travel but I barely got a glimpse of that. Vast knowledge was available but I was not allowed to access it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was aware time affected material things but not things in the place I was, which was not physical.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could not see well. I had tunnel vision due to lack of oxygen.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear but could not respond.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My father, some people who had gone on before and I saw some beings that were caring for the light being.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a 'place' in the middle of where I went that had a bright light. I thought it must be God, but did not get to see it clearly.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I cannot put it in words. It was a spirit realm so no description can fit.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Curiosity, then fear then joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     It was too brief and, as stated, I was not allowed to know. But I knew the information was available to anyone who cared to know.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I was told I had more to learn and do. The scenes were things I did not want to go through. In fact, I have had to go through many of them in subsequent years. Because of abuse, I was very suicidal. After that experience, I felt life was for a purpose and lost suicidal thoughts for the most part. I had a minor suicide attempt at 16, none after.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Had a very fundamental Baptist background with strong beliefs in heaven and hell and rules that were to be obediently unquestioned.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I quit attending fundamental churches although it caused problems in my marriage.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   Attend liberal church for social enrichment, but am not connected to any specific religious tradition. Attend Methodist services occasionally as well as Native American sweats and teachings. Read varied material.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     That religious orientation was not the standard of judgement

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I quit believing what people told me about heaven and hell. I developed beliefs that do not fit any convention.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I was able to speak to people I did not know who had lived before I was even born. My father was the clearest.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     That life would continue to be very hard and I was to persevere.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     A feeling that every crated thing was in joy as one.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I was aware there was a supreme being, but only heard it say I had to go back.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only that it would be hard and I would learn many things.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Only that it would be hard and I would learn many things.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     The experience itself, being conscious in a non-material, timeless frame.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Only that it would be hard and I would learn many things.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     A feeling that love is the only thing we can take with us.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. I know I don't have to live up to some set of rules laid out by people. I am responsible for my attitude toward others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I see people more completely, the good side too. And I realize we are all the same.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have the sensation I have lived my whole life standing on the platform of a highway billboard with my nose up to the sign, trying to make out what it said. For an instant, I was far enough away to read it, but was slammed back into this world of personal struggle and uncertainty. I only remember a tiny bit of what I learned.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I have never forgotten what I experienced, nor repeated it. I continue to have OBE's occasionally but not NDE's. It felt more real than anything ever before or since. KETMINE does not cause NDE's but can trigger an OBE.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always had 'radar'. Children growing up in a dangerous environment must learn to read other’s non-verbal clues. I now have more compassion with it which helps me understand people.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away to hospital staff and husband. They all chose not to hear about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It felt so real, and I could think clearer than ever before.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Lots of skeptics have explanations, and I keep an open mind. But so far the explanations don't really fit.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   In deep meditation or sweat lodges I have had profound experiences but nothing as deep as the NDE.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1atlanta_nde.html