{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1astrid_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Astrid Probable NDE 3358","mylang":"de"}
          	        Astrid Probable NDE 3358  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Astrid Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1424 Astrid Probable NDE 3358  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It happened one day during which, due to profound bleeding as a result of a curettage. I was transferred in an emergency to a hospital where, at the moment of surgery, even while I was feeling the injection of the anesthesia, I saw myself as if I were separating from my body. I found myself submerged in a deep, dark well and at the end of it, I felt as if there was a light attracting me. Once I passed the light, I saw myself in my room at the hospital, lying down, but I floated above my body. I saw how a friend who had died fifteen days prior approached the foot of the bed. She moved over to the side of the bed, giving the space to my brother, who had died a year ago who spoke to me, calling my name, at the same time extending his arms to me and saying, 'Let us go; come; let's go now.'

I saw my body inert, asleep, at the same time that I was saying: 'I'm cold, so cold.' I saw how they covered me with blankets. I saw myself and started to float, arriving at a sort of anteroom, where there were many people. As I entered, I noticed there were, among the people, persons that I knew, including family members who had already died. When these family members saw me, they only turned and I felt they welcomed me although they did not smile. I only saw them looking at me. I kept floating and I arrived at a beautiful spot all covered in flowers, like a rainbow, beautiful, and I felt a sensation of indescribable peace. I stayed a few moments, contemplating the horizon of that place when I suddenly found myself arriving at a huge door. I wanted to cross through, but at that moment, when I wanted to enter, I heard a voice that told me, 'Return. It is not your moment.' By the time I was told this and understood what was going on, I was already back in my bed in the hospital room, awakened and crying.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  22 de dic. 1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-relatedChildbirth    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I feel that it was at all times but I did not feel afraid. Instead, I felt an indescribable peace. I was at home and happy.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     What for me was an instant in which everything developed, in the real world it was approximately six hours.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     COMO PASAR A TRAVEZ DE UN ARCOIRIS

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I wanted to stay in that place; it was perfect.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     To not be afraid of death; to feel that if I still have life it is because I have a mission to accomplish before parting.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     That I had to accomplish a mission and that I hadn't yet done it.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Only the sensation that I wanted to enter that door; I wanted to go in.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The sensation of accepting the moment of life that we are counting.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No I'm the same, only with the desire to arrive at that place that seemed to me incredible.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The marvelous peace.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     It happens often that I pass from a state of profound sleep and in it I am able to leave and see myself and to arrive at places which I don't recognize, just as on rare occasions, I (guess at) something that will occur.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The indescribable peace was significant; the desire to stay there.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only with family. Their reaction, I feel, is indifference.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I am certain that I lived at that moment something so marvelous and at the same time I desire to be a better person to be able to enter.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Fabulous and without fear of death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       About the return of said experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1astrid_probable_nde.html