{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1astrid_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Astrid K NDE 4131","mylang":"de"}
          	        Astrid K NDE 4131  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Astrid K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2020 Astrid K NDE 4131  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					All of this happened during my camping trip, in the camping cabin surrounded by four of my friends in Vladivostok, Russia. My friends decided to inform me about this 'new thing' that was supposed to make me behave 'funny'. Being young and silly, I decided to try it out and followed their instructions: Sit down on your feet, take ten very deep breaths on the tenth breath quickly stand up and pull your head backward as much as you can. I believe that was the time when I lost consciousness.

From there on, based on my friends' stories, they placed me on the floor. Then I suddenly stood up and ran into the door. They told me it was a very hard slam. Then they told me that I fell backwards. They gathered around me and started to ask me if I was okay. I didn't respond to their questions. Girls started to shake me and hit me on my cheeks. After about one minute or less (again, based on their words) I woke up feeling a little bit uneasy. Everything felt very real. In fact, I know it was real!

My side of the story.

I 'woke up' or more like suddenly appeared laying on the railroad tracks which were in the dark tunnel (at first it felt very cold) I could see its dimensions, color which was dark gray /black, it had a very strong smell of a fuel that drips from the trains onto the railroad trucks. At first, I didn't realize where I was. Then a sudden fear mixed with warmth enveloped me. I started to scream out my friends' name and being frantic. I didn't know what to do or which direction to go. Then a little light started to appear. It was first very small and then becoming brighter and bigger as it was coming closer to me. For some reason, I wasn't very scared anymore; I somehow became calm and just kept starring at it. Then I woke up surrounded by my friends. Their faces looked scared and confused. They asked me if I was okay and that they were trying to wake me up. Even though I was told that I was unconscious for about one minute, the whole experience felt like it was going on for at least five minutes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'July, 1998'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    'The event of losing consciousness was facilitated by me taking deep breaths while sitting down with my head close to my chest then quickly standing up, taking the last deep breath and pulling my head backwards. That was the last thing I remember. I was t  Other I am not sure. There were no medical professionals present at that time to assess me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I realized I was in the dark tunnel.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized I was in the dark tunnel.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt more like a sense of altered space, I am not sure about time. To me, my experience felt longer compared to the period of time I was unconscious.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Even though it was dark in the tunnel, I still was able to see clearly the walls of the tunnel, railroad tracks and their condition, this sort of cold feeling. The light that was coming closer to me was getting very bright but it didn't hurt my eyes.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I didn't separate from my own body. I didn't see anyone around me or what people were doing at that time. The only thing I could remember is appearing inside the dark tunnel almost instantaneously. All I felt was fear and insecurity. I could smell railroad tracks so well, I will never forget that smell they gave off.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I didn't see it at first. It was somewhat dark. Then I started to see it getting brighter and coming towards me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'None'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'None'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told about my experience right after I woke up in the room where it happened. People seemed confused and scared since they were trying to wake me up for about a minute or so (based on what they told me). I shared this information with my boyfriend; however I have doubts that he completely believes me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Not sure how to answer this question.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1astrid_k_nde.html