{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1asim_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Asim F NDE 758","mylang":"de"}
          	        Asim F NDE 758  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Asim F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						261  Asim F NDE  758  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

During a tilt-table test preparation, I seemed to have flat-lined for thirty seconds when the electrical wires were inserted into my thigh.  All I recall is a sharp pain started to develop in the back of my head and work its way to the front.  It almost seemed like the sensation you get when you try to recover from a sleeping limb.


I then remember this beautiful sensation of floating, as if a suspended body in water. My movements were slow and I remember many brightly lit objects that appeared to be some sort of figures.  They would pass by me very fast and I was not able to recognize any faces or even get a good look at them.  I seemed to recall my life story pass by me but I cannot be sure anymore.  I just seemed like a long time in this suspended mode and then I started to hear sounds and realized I was waking up.


When I came too, I could clearly hear the doctor from across the room talking to someone on the phone and I remember his comment, 'I do not know what the hell happened.'  I started to realize I was sweating and started to get very cold since I was in the operating room.  The nurses put blankets on me and turned on some hot air for me on the table.  The doctor came back to me and said I was okay and that he would come back later to see me.  I found out from the nurse in the recovery room that I warned all them I was going out and then I flat-lined for thirty seconds. They said I came back on my own with a perfect rhythm.  The nurses and the doctor had never seen anything like this before.  They installed a demand-pacemaker in me the next day, which has a battery life of nine years.  I guess I will not be having any more experiences like these again.  I now recall that this has happened in the past to me as a kid many times.  But never knew till now that my body was shutting down and bring me back.


I now see life in a different way and appreciate every minute I get to be breathing. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    March 2001

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Surgery-related     30 sec flat line, considered very acute case of vasovagal reaction.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very aware. Just everything was moving too fast for me to keep up.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     Not at all.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Brightly lit forms/beings.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Just seemed like a history of my life went by and that is all I remember.  I have had deja-vu a lot in the past but did not have any then. I have had some since then but nothing out of the ordinary.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Islam

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   Islam

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I look at life as very important now.  I think I welcome death and feel like I have a purpose to accomplish something but not sure yet what it is.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best - being in the state.  Worst - coming out of it!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some joke, some laugh, some show concern.  Varied responses from different people.  Some, it seems, take what I say very seriously but I guess they have to experience it first to really appreciate it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1asim_f_nde.html