{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ashutosh_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Ashutosh S NDE 6823","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ashutosh S NDE 6823  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ashutosh S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3402 Ashutosh S NDE 6823  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I walked into my apartment.

My friend Devesh and two other friends were standing inside the wing.

As soon as I entered, we chatted briefly and Devesh held my neck tight.

I knew he was playing games but after thirty seconds, I collapsed on the ground. There was an immediate blackout and I was unconscious.  I saw unearthly light; I could see myself from a child to a teenager in a jiffy. I even saw my parents and sisters.

They were laughing and I could see myself enjoying with them.  I was facing a divine light and an unearthly voice was recalling me over and over again.  I never heard that voice prior to the incident nor until now. The unearthly light faded away and I still remember that when I woke up I was supposed to be on my bed. On the contrary, I was lying on the ground. Devesh and two of the other friends were terrified and on gaining conscious, I asked them what am I doing here?

Devesh told me that I had collapsed on the floor, and was hit by the bicycle upon falling down. He even slapped me but I didn't respond!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/03/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    The incident wasn't intentional.  my friend was just doing prank'  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' The incident wasn't intentional.  my friend was just doing prank'  My friend was holding my neck tight.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see my childhood in a jiffy.  I and my family were together in some unearthly kind of light.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I didn’t choke at the time when he held my neck tight. I was conscious but in a fraction of a second, I fainted. After gaining conscious, I was surprised what I was doing there in the wing.  I thought I should have got up on the bed and everything seemed unrealistic for few moments.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When Devesh held my neck I was conscious. When I followed the voice that said, ‘you need to go back, your time hasn't come as yet,’ I gained consciousness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything happened in a flash. I was clueless as to what's going on. Time seemed to have stopped.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was normal prior to the incident.  I saw Devesh holding my neck tight, but within few moments I got a black out.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything normally prior to the time of experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Throughout the experience I was in unearthly light. White light or something sort of like that. Unearthly.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was surrounded by my loved ones. Parents.  I could clearly see my dad and mom in the experience along with my sisters in a flash.  The world was majestic. Unearthly.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I can’t explain it.  I never got that kind of feeling. It was unearthly as if I was in a different world altogether.  I was trying to figure out what exactly is happening.  A feeling of peace and curiosity. But these words tend to be too small to describe that feeling.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I was facing that unearthly voice and I was following that unearthly voice. I was in other world.  I didn't feel my body.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I just followed the voice and all I remember is everything faded away. That voice and light disappeared and I regained consciousness.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Hindu

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel that God is with us all the time and to communicate with him one doesn't need to perform rituals or visit shrines or holy places.  All I do is I close my eyes, concentrate on the center of my forehead, and search for him.  That's the way I communicate to God.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Hindu

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     i was a free minded person but upon that incident i still wonder that i have some other objective which needs to be done.i dont know what but i strongly feel that there is something else which needs to be done.i never experienced that sort of a feeling before

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Death is the ultimate truth. I follow the motto ‘live and let live.’  The Lord is protecting us and come what may, always do good.  I gave up alcohol consumption upon learning that lord Shiva hates it.  I love my family the most.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I could feel that the unearthly voice had me captivated.  I was under some spell. It was divine.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   that unearthly voice seemed as if he was god.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     seeing myself as a child to a teenager and seeing my family alongwith me in a different world,also the light and voice i never experienced it before

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I don't know why I was following that voice, I followed the unearthly light and its mystical enough to draw a conclusion that there is a strong connection between our body and the soul

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     that voice was something i never heard.i was confused throughout the event and i dont know why i was sent back.i was captivated completely by the voice.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I still maintain that death is the ultimate truth and humans are creations of god with brains which we do not actually use.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     i am still wondering as to why i followed the voice to go back.i guess every organism has a purpose which needs to be serves.death is the ultimate truth.i guess i must have been sent back to achieve a certain purpose and still am clueless

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     i was into other world,i could see the unearthly life,my childhood and especially that voice which urged me to go back

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I guess we are living in a hell. The feeling which I experienced was beyond eternal pleasures, a complete solace. Peace

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I only experienced my family's affection towards me.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I worship lord Shiva.  I meditate daily before going to bed and I can feel lord is with me. I refrain myself from causing pain to others. All I want is to know is who am I and after my completion of the studies and marriage of my sisters, I will give up these earthly pleasures and go in search of the truth.  I do not fear death anymore as I know for sure that I have to leave my physical boundaries.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am extremely dedicated toward my family.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I cannot exactly replicate the feelings in my words. It was something out of this world feeling, something majestic, divine or unearthly!

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   i dont know specifically but I can remember it accurately.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can sleep up to a maximum of twenty six to twenty seven hours at one stretch. I always strongly feel that in my dreams I am not in this world. I am into some other world. I mesmerize lord Shiva.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That voice is still a mystery. Why was I sent back? A lot of questions remain unanswered.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was extremely confused as to why it happened to me, but when my dad told that death is something which is not in our hands, I felt that this human form is priceless. I have to know the truth of life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The only thing I make out is that I am here for a specific purpose.  Eating, sleeping. Having a family. Everyone does that and death.  Humans exploit everything for their comfortable lifestyle, but death has to come.  No one takes anything upon leaving the earth.  I strongly feel that voice has something to do.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is something which is hard to explain in words. It changed my perception of life.  I am different.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ashutosh_s_nde.html