{"name":"Magic Harmonies","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1821__page___magic_harmonies.pdf","mytitle":"Magic Harmonies","mylang":"de"}
Q
ExEMPL}rying trik ºr , ; .
*
*Auto manutostries:
* * *
º
-
*
*
SECOND ADVENT DISPENSATION:
OR GRAND UNIVERSAL POLITICAL NEW-BIRTH, AND THIRD RE.
SURRECTION.
by solar calculation, July A. D. 1821: By Lunar (THE only truf
scripture rule of TIME) Much more.
-º- -
* BY Edward postlethwAyr PAGE,
LATE of MARIETTA, onio."
--
The work of Christ was the re-publication and revival of the law of nature.
This world, like the tabernacle of old, was so framed and constituted, as to be
-
the pattern of heavenly things. All things here on earth are emblems of real
ities in Heaven
The whole ofthe Bible is a mirror—read it on a smooth surface of water-level
and assimilation, perturbed by no avarice, no strife, no vain glory.
NEW-YORK :
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR,
Bolmore, printer.
&
\º
y
_*\
**
* *
**
**
º
A. º **
-
. *.
* -º
Southern District of New-York, ss.
By 17 REMEMBEREp, that onthe twentieth day of July, in the forty-sixth year
the Independence of the United States of America, Edward Postlethwayt Page,
the said District, hath deposited in this office the title of a Book, the right where
4. he claims as Author, in the words and figures following, to wit:
Magic Harmonies: exemplifying the Second Advent Dispensation ; or gran
“universal political new birth, and third resurrection. By solar calculation
“July A. D. 1821. By lunar (the only true Scripture rule of time) muc
“more, by Edward Postlethwayt Page, late of Marietta, Ohio. The work o
“ Christ was the re-publication and revival of the law of nature. This world
‘ like the tabernacle of old, was so framed and constituted, as to be the pattern
“ of heavenly things. All things here on earth are emblems of realities in
– “heaven. The whole of the Bible is a mirror—read it on a smooth surface of
“ water-level and assimilation, perturbed by no avarice, no strife, no vain
“glory.”
.
In conformity to the Act of the Congress of the United States, entitled “An Act
for the encouragement of Learning, by securing the copies of Maps, Charts, and
Books, to the authors and proprietors ofsuch copies, during the time therein men
tioned." And also to an Act, entitled “an Act, supplementary to an Act, entitled
an Actforthe encouragement of Learning, by securing the copiesof Maps, Charts,
and Books, to the authors and proprietors of such copies, during the times therein
mentioned, and extending the benefits thereof to the arts of designing, engraving.
and etching historical and other prints."
G. L. THOMPSON,
Clerk of the Southern District of New-York.
:: * ~ * 4
‘. . . . . . . -
INTRODUCTION.
-
To all the World.
Brothers and Sisters! This book, if well received,
will be followed by another, expatiating largely on this inexhaustible sub
ject. For, as St. John says, if all that Jesus did (which is all nature re
storing herself) was written, even the world could not contain the books
that might be written.—I assure you, that the more you penetrate into
the history of the primitive christians, the more you will find ofthem who
believed with the admirable Origen, that the Scriptures are an allegory.
The fire which consumed their bodies, may have destroyed the most of
their writings; but candid truth will testify to this their faith.-Consider
how Paul and Barnabas allegorized.—Observe the same spiritual prone
mess in the mystics and quakers. Mind ye; the language of Jehovah is
a voice of pictures, or visible objects; images, spoken to the Eye, and
not the ear. Hence the Egyptian Masons, with suitable fitness say
Union, Silence, Virtue. This infallible and universal character, if at
any time connected with sound, is only in musical symphonies, but ad
mits of no Babylonish jargon of gibberish and controversy about nonenti
ties. The ancient Magicians are not here, and the word is lost. The
just and true application of symbols is buried in Egyptian darkness—
yea, ’tis unfashionable, or ridiculous, or superstitious, or visionary to re
vive them. But, my beloved brethren, we are liſting up the Redeemer.
The decree has sounded from heaven—all the world shall be saved. True
Masonry is your polar star. Without that conductor, you may have the
faith of Abraham, but you realize no mind of King Immanuel—That Ma
gicians, and the magic science once existed, what man conversant with
Sacred history, will deny P Its purity is so great, that the contamina
tion of it has been in exact proportion to its excellence; and this is by a
law in nature, which may explain why the benevolent and unsophisticat
ed religion of Jesus Christ, has, more perhaps than any other, agitated
the designing world, and records more persecutions. Base metal looks
most vile by contrast when in mixture with gold, and the provocation to
mischief the greater.
*Tºº ºn A
13. Cºſ)
INTRODUCTION.
It is consonant with magic reason, that as true light in Government
commenced with Adam,orState, in the East, the seed ofthe woman Eve,
or Church, will bruise the serpent's head in the West (or America) by
eating at the tree of religious and political equality.—In quest of magic
similies, and sympathetic attraction of symphonious affinities; I cull from
every flower; and will, with heartfelt gratitude, receive communications
on the Chinese language and their decimal mode of calculating, by mov
ing to and fro with their long finger-nails, wooden rollers in a box like
half a backgammon board, strung on sticks placed as the strings of a
Guitar. I also crave every fragment, or link of concatenate science.
The divergent rays must tend to one focus. All mankind should visit
the Temple periodically, and communicate gifts to the altar; which,
when joined together, could be woven into a beautiful carpet for the feet
of wisdom, whereon the Union Concentric Society of Light might dance
in the matrimonial eve, when Wisdom and Love, who are Solomon and
Christ, thelong and devoutly expected Bridegroom and Bride, shall con
summate fruition. The Song of Solomon being thus adapted to the harp
of David, or rather his Son, our Mediator, and taken from its willow :
Let peace strike the Lyre to the heavenly choir—
All Christendom must coalesce, throw Jonas overboard, and establish
a true Government.
Though by birth an Englishman, yet am I in cosmopolite bonds and
faith. - CIOVd 'd 'CI [a Sun-flower.]
--
NOTICE.
The publisher wishes it to be understood by the public, that the sentiments ad
vanced in this pamphlet, are at variance with the absurdities in the New Jerusa
lem Church;-whose morning is so early, the stars of superstitious night are dis
timetly visible.
THE GORDIAN KNOT UNTIED;
OR THE
Cherubim of Glory ten times Described in Holy Writ;
EXPLAINED BY 39W.I 'd (THVMQIq
• M.B—"
&
-
º
The above two crosses exemplify, that of “twain (Israel
and Judah) making one flesh.”
EXPLANATION OF THE CUT.
See (in Ferguson's Astronomy) an universal sun-dial on
a plain cross. The above largest cross refers to that. Im
agine it to stand in Franklin's magic circle of circles, con
taining the perfect square form of a man, governed by the
12 signs of the zodiac for the earth. The lesser diagonal
crossrefers to themoon,and Dr. Franklin's squareof squares,
in connexion with her annual and peculiarly deviating vis
itation ofthe zodiac. The earth and moon making a two
fold recognizance. Moses (or the temple's walls) Christ (or
the carpenter's finish.) As in attraction, opposites unite,
and similitudes are repellant to matrimony, if brother and
sister: so, perhaps with matter and spirit. The why and
wherefore of the variation of the compass, is mystically
apprehended by me. What is now our north pole, may
have been in a N. w. position before the fall, or the flood.
The church in quest of a short N. w. passage to the pacific
ocean of love.
The cubical form of a cross (which folds into a com
plete box) and the square (which contains a man's dimen
sions) easily found in it, betoken, that when two or more
bodies move round another as their centre of motion, the
squares of their periodic times will be to one another in
the same proportion as the CUBEs of their distances from
the central body. Jehovah is the greater intellectual body.
To him eventually we all gravitate, when inferior ones are
removed from proximity.
No. 1. is Full moon; (man's face) Jesus Christ, or
the religion of nature before the fall.
No. 2. She wanes towards darknessiſºde'sface)
Egyptian symbols understo
No. 3. Law ºMoses; (lion's face) symbolic mean
- ings forgotten.
No. 4. Temple of Solomon, (ox's face.)
|
[ 7 )
No. 5. is Immanuel's government eclipsed,(a man's
face wailed) crucified, dead, andburied!!!
First resurrection-day announced by Jewish
iºdim ; (bull’s face) popery issuing
ullS.
Second resurrection; (lion's face) British
reformation. -
Circumcised to John's water-level baptism.
| America passes Niagara falls to liberty
and equality. (eagle's face.)
In the ox is sturdy tardiness of motion; majestic strength
of speed in the lion; sun-piercing energy in the flight and
eye of the eagle; but an immeasurable intellectual expanse
in the mind of the man.
“Rise to set the captive free,
Rise, O sun of liberty.”
|
THE
AMERICAlf STAR OF STARSo i23
DIRECTING THE MAGICIANS TO IMMANUEL,
OR THE SUN.
To the Human Family.
IN spiritual navigation, parallel latitude sailing enables us,
when the water is “calm and unruffled as a summer's sea,”
to discern the analogy between substantial objects, and
their reflected similitudes; the shade, or picture, and its
agreeing substance. Read not Hebrew as English, from
left to right—and neither of them perpendicularly, as Chi
mese, and perhaps Egyptian hieroglyphics: neither mistake
the symbol for the thing typified, and consequently sink
into Egyptian darkness, by taking the letter which kills,
for the spirit which quickens. To be plain: the Bible is
an allegorical picture or map of greater realities. An epi
tome of the past, present, and to come, just as the woman
Hagar is mount Sinai; the woman Sarah, Jerusalem which
is above. It was planned by the immeasurable mind of
[ 3 ]
Jehovah, the good Lord of Light and Love. The Scrip
tures are a day-book; profane or subsequent history, a
corroberating journal: and the book of nature is our leg
er. Sacrcd and profane history are as reflected images in
a mirror. The history of the Jews is an epitome of that
of the world, or Gentiles. Thus the queen of Sheba is
Britannia, presenting her national debt to king Solomon.
The tower of Babylon is popery—and protestant sects, the
confused tongues. Masonry is Noah's ark, with all that
remains of the old world. Eve and Adam are church and
state. The forbidden fruit is money, which is the root of
all evil, a mammon-god, with Caesar's image upon it. The
leaves of its tree are bank-notes: It grows on the soil of
avarice; roots of pride; trunk of ambition; branches of
carnal lusts. America's Lake Erie, is an emblem of our
government carrying kings, lords, priests, and a jumble of
others, too many to name, like drift-wood down the falls
of Niagara, enquiring for the level of liberty and equality
in their purity, the leviathan serpent of truth piloting the
waves to Lake Superior of knowledge, in prospect of those
rocky mountains of circumscription, yea, perhaps the very
partition-walls of this globe. Thence, (indicative are na
tural things) meeting the Mississippi on an inclined plane,
(the greatest we know of) this living water of life circum
navigates the world.
'Tis a Free Mason only, with a circumcised heart, bap
tized into blended water, who can mingle undistinguished
with his brethren of mankind; and, associated with that
sacred and awfully august order, become a leaven to leaven
the whole lump in the bread of the human family, as typi
fied by our Grand Master's supper; and the wine, com
pounded of sweet and sour grapes, small and large, well
pressed, and well fermented, ripe with age, and of good
body, is the blood of all the human race, or new Adam,
whose coat is neither Aaron's, nor Joseph's dipped in blood,
as with christendom at this day; but Immanuel's, woven,
[ 9 J
and without seam. The carbonari Sampson is grinding at
the mill of revolution. If his pillars are church and state;
if his seven locks are Jehovah's seven attributes, what a
fate awaits the unholy league of Philistine Kings! Whither,
ah whither shall I go for edification, if not to your temple?
There we find heaven-born Charity, with her emblems of
expansive philanthropy. The unchanging and self-existent
“Jehovah Elohim,” is in the ark of your treasury. You
have the key and the only true platform. Your light-house,
is the Temple of Wisdom. Will a man of science deny,
that a picture, whether natural or artificial, is a universal
character—a token to all people? Can discernment per
ceive a more striking language than that of emblems, simi
litudes, fables, symbols, parables, which are allegories? Spe
culative masonry is the resurrection of Jesus; whose lighthas
been eclipsed by a heap of earth-rubbish. Itisgodliness in re
ality: It isthe true magic ofoccult philosophy. It isheavenly
harmony; and incontestibly demonstrates that the know
ledge of divine and unpolluted magic is that power, or
word, which has been so long lost, and melted at the mint
of avarice. In it is discovered the most profound order,
system, classification; extremely powerful and conclusive
in its deductions, though algebraical, or as rules of position.
Hence it is, that the wise man, by a proper association of
ideas, may read the future in the present and the past.—
But this must no longer be confounded with spurious and
idle fortune-telling; although, in the plentitude of God's
wisdom and providence, the Gipsies may to this day record
its memory. To be enabled to trace the parts of the stu
pendous whole, and nicely to set and adapt them to the
great building, is beyond an entered apprentice, or a fellow
craft: It is the work of a master-architect. Moses was
the builder of the outward edifice. Christ, a carpenter
and joiner, has finished it; and the arts and sciences of
men are polishing the brass-work, and the Oracle. In the
holy of holies, is 12 primary planets, or new wonders of
2
[ 10 J
the world! Perhaps Christ is 12 or 12,00 years of age,
disputing with the Rev. Doctors; and Aaron's 12th rod
may now be blossoming. 12 apostles exemplify the 12
signs of the zodiac in relation to the moon, or Eve, the
counterpart of the earth, or Adam, and the signs which
govern him. The rib of Adam may be the form of the
new moon which commanded every stretch of attention
from the Jewish Sanhedrim, after the deep sleep of eclipse.
The moon controls Eve's race, or the church, hence 12 an
nual wonders with women, and the issue of blood 12 years
that Christ cured. The earth denotes the state, and the
men fight, and lose their blood. The numbers for the
union between bride and bridegroom, the 12 sons of Ja
cob and 12 apostles, are thus 24 elders. Jacob's brother
Esau is here supplanted. “Jehovah, our Gods, one Jeho
vah” is 24 letters in English, and 4 times 4 dots in a square's
angles, and one in its centre make 17, for the number of
the Hebrew name in letters. Mark the ineffable namein He
brew, translated “Holy, Blessed, He, Father, Son, Holy
Ghost,”,
Come to the marriage supper, ye who are married to no
church, and ye who have not yoked the 5 oxen of your left
handed fingers of 5 foolish virgins, or outward senses, to
the oxen of 5 inward powers, or wise virgins of the right
hand; and if ye go not to prove the patriarch's certain piece
of land in a certain place, well known to a certain people.
In Horae Solitariae, we find the Jews before Christ, had
a title for the Godhead, consisting of 12 letters, the initials
of other names. Gather at this great supper of our Lord,
the broken fragments of all nations among 12 primary lan
guages into 12 baskets that Nothing BE Lost. The Ro
mans had 12 deities: Pallas, Venus, Phatbus, Mercury,
Jupiter, Ceres, Vulcan, Mars, Diana, Vesta, Juno, Neptune
The URIM and THUMMIM of Melchisedek, is 5 sign-post
looking at 7, and proclaiming an associate God and man;
thus: the vital, 1 ; the understanding, 2; the will, 3; the
[ 11 )
memory, 4; the conscience, 5. And Jehovah's 7 cyes, or
spirits, which are Sampson's locks and Pharoh's fat kine,
are His Essence, 6; Life, 7; Immortality, 8; Power, 9;
Light, 10; Wisdom, 11 : Love, 12.
Efficacy and virtue are in numbers; for all things were
created by number, measure, and weight. Weigh me in the
balance, but weigh me in the new French system of weights
and measures, whose nomenclature consists of only 12
words; 5 of which denote the things, and 7 the numbers;
the multiple of the units whereof are decimally expressed
in significant prefixed Greek syllables. (See National In
telligencer, March 10, 1821.)
Bearing in mind the cherubim of glory, the most impor
tant symbol in scripture, each alike having the head of a
man, an eagle, a lion, an ox, which prove to be periods
or eras of light in two halves; exemplified by the waning
and the waxing of the moon; and 8 octants, agreeing with
the circumcision number in the outward grand angles of a
mathematical cross, and the divisions of the admirable
Franklin's magic circle of circles, which is a most momen
tous discovery in its mystic application. The 6 quarters, or
phases in one lunar revolution, present 12 horns to the ma
hometan crescents, or to the believing christian, if his cup
is not too small to receive more knowledge, which truly is
power, and is the intellectual sun of the mind, and infinite
ly progressive here on earth. Behold for the second che
rubim, Christ, or the light derived from the sun, crucified,
eclipsed!!!—Pause!---The earth intervenes, and hides from
us the light of his countenance! The American eagle in
gibbous moon, darts an eye upon the British lion, divides
his 65 orders of precedency, or gradation between king
and peasant, by 5 outward or foolish senses, and leaves 13
stripes in our flag for his back. - -
We now await a dish of hieroglyphic tea from China,
and something from the buried temples in Arabia Deserta,
and Egypt. In the wheels of revolution from light toº
[ 12 J -
darkness,light as rapidly developeslight, as darkness impels
to darkness, all in geometrical progression: Hence we find
how Ezekiel's man with a writer's inkhorn by his side,
(which is a freeand unshackeled press) issuinghisflying roll,
is causing two wheels, the outer, the state, the inner, the
church, to travel briskly at this day. If our government is
John Baptist, the little book which John ate in Rev. sweet
to mouth, bitter to belly, is our Constitution that gave us
the gripes the two last winters.
What I am contending for, is the restoration of right rea
son to mankind. Onward, therefore to the goal. As our
government is remiss in the education of all the youth, so
far is it guilty of high treason against God, and the Com
monwealth, mocking the Saviour with a thorny crown, gall.
and vinegar; for moral science and the arts and sciences
are concatenate.
Take a circle, find in it 6 triangles, equal with the radi
us. Conjoin a similar circle by a little intrusion. In the
two, are 12 equal triangles. Again: make a square with
in a square ; and divide their intervening space into exactly
12 equal triangles, or houses, for your horoscope.
Again: the 12 is curiously seen in the 3d heaven as it
were. Make a circle---and with equal radius 6 around it;
and then 12, all equal, circumscribing those 6. Count mys
tically, to discern the 5's, 7's, 12's.
Also, extend lines in every triangle beyond intersection,
anda trinity ofanglesnow yieldsyou 12angles,explanatoryof
Jehovah's name, twelve in three.
In a geometrical form of a cross, on either side, are six
equal squares, folding into a complete cube, or box. To
have 32 angular compass-points, within the square where
the breast should be, make a square whose angles point due
North and South, East and West. The head of this new
cross, or stone of the mountain that breaks Nebuchadnez
zar's image, points to a N. W. passage, tell Captain Parry,
who found 12 Islands lately,and named them New-Georgia,
I 13 ]
in honour to George IV. who sent Ali Pacha 12 golden
candlesticks, symbolical of ancient light returning to Egypt.
Search a good concordance for all 12's, mentioned in
Holy Writ, particularly Solomon’s pillars’ Area and New
Jerusalem—12 months—12 hours—12 times 28 days in a
scripture or lunar year— 12 jury-men—12 true prophets—
12 prime members to man: head, neck, arms, breast, heart,
belly, kidneys, genitals, hams, knees, legs, feet—12 kings
once masters of Egypt. Psymmeticus by the oracle, joined
the pirates. Plato says the earth is a figure, consisting of
12 pentagons. The earth's diameter to that of the sun, is
as 12 to 1000, which may denote the proportion between
the mind of Jehovah and all the intellect of all the human
family in one focus—12 spring-tides—12 books in Euclid,
and 12 cases of oblique Trigonometry. John's 12 tribes
were 12,000. New-Jerusalem 12,000 furlongs. The
Maldivia Islands are 12,000 in number."
One of 5 wise virgins, or inward senses, sufficed as a
smooth pebble for Goliah, whose sword washieroglyphics
5 is an agency number. See 5 fingers on each hand. See
claws, toes, &c. St. Pierre thus harmonizes. Straight line,
triangle, circle, parabola, ellipsis. And related to motion, is
that which is self, perpendicular, horizontal, circular, and
rest, or quietude, In architecture are 5 orders. The
year has 5 cold wintry months. A pyramid has a base
and 4 sides. Venus makes 5 loops in her revolution-5 in
dented curves in the earth and moon's circle of revolution.
The study of natural philosophy is comprehended under 5
distinct heads, mathematics, mechanics, chimestry, botany,
and zoolagy. Thus 5 is proven to be the Thummim, per
fecting number. The Urim number 7 is seen in the 7 inlets,
or cavities, chiefly about the face. These apertures are in
the vicinity of every brain on earth, in air, in ocean. Thus
has Deity stamped his special number upon all flesh. For
* The circle which the earth describes round the earth, and moon's centre of .
gravity (in every course of the moon round her orbit) is 12,000 miles in diame
ter; and the earth is 12,000 miles nearer the sun at the time of full moon, than at
the time of new.
[ 14 J
brevity's sake alone, out of a wonderful harmony of the 7 in
scripture,and nature'sgreatbook,I willonlyremind youofthe
7 fluxes and refluxes of Epirus–7 wonders—7 ancient
planets—7 angles in each square of Euclid's 47th proposi
tion. To conclude. As political virtue is more essential to
happiness in the aggregate, than individual, by how much
more the many are than the one; I suppose it to be all-im
portant that the law of the land be holy, just, and pure. If
the Oracle for governments, which is right reason, has been
lost in the mint ofavarice, with us, at least, the remedy is at
hand. Recover our Grand Master from a heap of rubbish,
and by the judgment of Pluto, he will quicken us to immor
tality. Be unity as he is unity, that one electric shock from
the Father, passing through the Son, may pervade the whole
human family, restoring them to liberty, and light, and
never-ending life.
The night of death no more shall dark our way;
Three dispensations waft us to our home:
Moses; then Christ; his Comforter to-day!
Thus Jacob's ladder, three in one makes known.
Seven periods also of th’ afflicted church,
We find in Asia's equal number told;
Though monarchy has given to Truth, a lurch,
St. John meant more than letter will unfold.
Your cosmopolite brother,
EDW. J.XVMHJLGITLSOd. PAGE.
Twelve Letters.
N. B. 12 distinct clauses in the Lord's prayer; 5 books
in the pentateuch; and 7 in the New Testament, viz. Mat
thew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Epistles, Revelations: 12
books of Apocrapha; and 30 more in Scripture, mysti
cally answering perhaps to 30 pieces of silver, the price of
Messiah; or 30 emblems, the 12th part of a circle's degree,
or a geometrical year. (remember Ahaz's sun-dial.) Spir
itual astronomy and havigation, when transferred from the
[ 15 1
attention ofselfish gain, to the aggregate welfare of a com
bined and sympathetic family of mankind, may open the
poles, and give us a philosopher's stone, a pearl of much
price inside the earth's shell.
Mark the Ukim, or 5 vols. of the Chinese, analogous
to Moses's. A discourse is made in the 1st vol. or book,
wherein is related what was said or done, under the govern
ment of the first 5 princes, and the twelfth. The 2d vol.
is properly a recital of the customs and ordinances of al
most 12 kings;then a collection of odes; for musicis muches
teemed and used in China, and is in my opinion a god-like
employment, and of heaven, because harmonious. Foki,
when characters and writings were unknown to the Chi
nese, and he could not teach them all with his voice, made
a table, composed of some little lines. Confucius under
took to untie this gordian knot of enigmas, and refers all to
the nature of beings and elements, to the manners and dis
cipline of men. I may tire my reader's patience. Peace
to you all.
A delegate from the gass-illuminated Sepulchre of Aaron, Solomon,
Confucius, Immanuel; or in brevity, IP R i g h t re a so m
King Tam always had his mind R i g h t r e a so .
disposed to cultivate thatprecious R i g h t r e a s , ,
reason which has been given us from R i g h t r e a , , ,
Heaven. King Yao could cultivate Right re. . . .
this sublime virtue, this gift which he R g h t r * . . . .
had received from Heaven, viz. natural R i g h t , , , , , ,
reason. Confuciussays we have received R i g h . . . . . . .
from Heaven lights, which we suffer to be- R i g . . . . . . . .
come extinct by negligence * * * * > . . . . . .
R # * * * * * * * * *
THE SEA-SERPENT.
As the Leviathan serpent of the ocean, to the
Snakes in the grass, so Truth to falsehood. She brings the
tadpoles of darkness into judgment, the scorpion tongue of
slander, and the 100 legged centipede of evil. She passes
[ 16 J
impotent fishermen, and leaves them to pursue devil-fish,
and voracious sharks. She tells the people to refrain from
adulterating their vision with strong fire-water fumes. She
lashes all lust and incontinence, oaths, and profanation of
the inestimable Jehovah's name. She condemns and cas
tigates a monied aristocracy with her potent tail, and sets
ephemeral Bankers and their associates a dancing, bit by
Pharaoh’s lice-money, in the mania of despondency, to the
tarantula's song tune. She sweeps from the earth-surface
the tape-worms of exclusive power and prerogative; and
burns every hornet's nest of confederacy, and all exclusive
parties both in church and state: whether black beetles of
parsons, rolling horse dung error on the high road to hell
and damnation, according to a mosqueto's notion of eterni
ty : or the porcupines of state, and their obsequious hedge
hogs, but yet more duped and humbled moles.
MAGIC SCALE OF THE NO. TEN.
I explain the magic art as coincident with a concatena
tion, or association of suitable ideas. The writings of Ho
mer, and the Greek poets, and the whole heathen mythology
were founded on the perversion of magic analogy, and the
eoncord of respective numbers. The same observation
will also apply to the vedas, and mythology of the east.
Egypt's 10 Plagues. 10 Commandments. Genealogy.
1.—Waters turned into blood; is war, 1st Commandment Adam.
2–Frogs, (amphibuous)churchandstate, 2d do. Seth.
3.—Lice; is money, (finger of God inthis.) 3d do. Enos
4.—Flies; all doctors and apothecaries, 4th do. Cainaan,
5.—Murrain; all merchants and traders, 5th do. JMahalaleel.
6.—Blains; lawyers and human laws, 6th do. Jared.
7.—Pestilence; or perversion of time and
immortality, - 7th do. * Enoch.
8.—Thunderings, lightnings, and hail;
kings, lords, and every title, 8th do. .Methuselah.
9.—Locusts; priests and their false doc
trines, 9th do. Lamech.
10,-Darkness; the mental vision of all
men eclipsed, 10th do. JWorth.
*“And all the days of Enoch, (which means dedicated, or disciplined) were
365:” as many days as in a year.
[ 17 )
The number 10 is called every, or an universal number
complete, signifying the full course of life. Beyond it we
cannot number, but by replication. It either implies all
numbers within itself, or explains them by itself, and its
own, by multiplying them. 10 sanguine parts of man,
menstrues,sperm, plasmatic spirit, mass, humours, organical
body, vegetative part, sensitive part, reason, and the mind.
Also 10 simple integral parts: Bone, cartillage, nerve, fibre,
ligament, artery, vein, membrane, flesh, skin. And 10 in
trinsic parts: spirit, brain, lungs, heart, liver, gall, spleen,
kidneys, testicles, matrix. There were 10 curtains in the
temple; 10 strings in the psaltery; 10 instruments with
which the psalms were sung, viz. meza, nablum, mizmor,
sir, tehilah, beracha, halel, hodaia, asre, hallelujah. 10
singers of 1salms: Adam, Abraham, Melchisedeck, Moses,
Asaph, David, Solomon, and three sons of Chora. Holy
Ghost came down 10 days after Christ's ascension. Ahaz’s
sun-dial, 10 degrees; Jacob wrestling with the angel, over
came by 10, and blessed at the rising of the sun. In this
number Joshua overcame 30 kings; David, Goliah
and the Philistines; and Daniel escaped the lions. The
number 10 flows back into unity, from whence it proceeded,
so every thing that is flowing, is returned back to that from
which it had the beginning of its flux. So water to the sea,
body to earth, time to eternity, the spirit to God who gave
it; and every creature to nothing from whence it was cre
ated. Only now supported by the word of God, in whom
all things are hid. All things with and by the number 10,
make a round, taking their beginning from God, and end
ing in him. This number is as circular as unity, because,
being heaped together, returns into unity, which is the end
and perfection of all numbers, and beginning of tens.
Hence all tens have some divine thing in them. In the
law, the first fruits (because of the beginning of numbers)
and tenth, is as the end given to him who is the beginning
and end of all things. In Hºrºw, observe the name Je
[ 18 1
hovah of 10 letters collected; Eheie Kether; Jod Jeho
vah Hochmah; Jehovah Elohim Binah; El Hesed: Elohim
Gibor Geburaah; Eloh Tiphereth: Jehovah Sabaoth
Nezah: Elohim Sabaoth Hod; Sadai Josod; Adonai Me
lech Malchuth.
Make two triangles, one inside the other; print 10 pre
cious Hebrew letters in the smaller. But, alas! the word
(and power) is lost: men are not united brethren, because
divine magic is hid from their eyes. Efficacy is only in the
combination ofnumbers; but they are a broken, dissociated,
separated body of Christ. Every powerful result is the
effect of many operating on one object. And it may be
demonstrated, that the greater the number, the greater the
strength, and the more successful the result ; how devoutly
then, is it to be wished, that all mankind would rally around
one Urim and Thummim standard! so persuaded am I of
this, and that the Scripture Allegory will be made evident
to every eye, that I pray, come, Lord Jesus, come quickly
to every government on earth. We,individually, are amena
ble to them, and they to thee! Now the great privilege, as
well as dreadful responsibility, in a commonwealth is, that
every man can vote for the rulers and constitution of his
choice. In a monarchy, he cannot resist the political devil
without blood. Here all Christians of all denominations
might combine their influence, and crown their Saviour.
For the wicked have not the integrity, unity, and eventual
influence ofthe good; a regular army will conquer all their
straggling parties. Should the eyes of good men open, and
see this necessity, they would rush for it, as air to a vacuum,
for they will eventually take the kingdom. But, as masons
only have the true platform; as masonry is both the Alpha
and Omega of religion, I beseech that sacred and most
ancient order to mark how evidently supernatural power
and Almighty Wisdom commanded the temple of Solomon
to be built, and the masonic temple to shut; and then, in
the fulness of time, the one to be destroyed at the death of
[ 19 J
the man Jesus Christ; and the other, as at this day of
second advent, to open for the King of glory, the combined
spiritual Immanuel or coalesced human family.
SCALE OF THE NUMBER 3.
Father, Son, Holy Ghost; Moses, Christ, Comforter;
Tabernacle, Temple, Oracle ; Wisdom, Strength, Beauty;
Faith, Hope, Charity; Body, Soul, Reason; Abraham,
Isaac, Jacob ; Shadrach, Mesech, Abednego; Rising sun,
high noon, evening; Earth, water, air; Entered appren
tice, fellow-craft, master-mason; Solomon, Hiram, Hiram
Abiff; Union, silence, virtue; Moon's first, second, third
quarter; Iron, Silver, Golden age ; 1st, 2d, 3d watch ;
might, midnight, morning; Life, death, immortality; Sun,
earth, moon ; Foundation, superstructure, roof; Keel,
hull, masts; head, body, limbs; Jacob's ladder, 3 steps; 1,
2, 3 crowings; 3d day, resurrection ; In whale's belly 3
days; Paul in 3d heavens; A triangle has 3lines; A circle,
3 diameters; Day-book, journal, leger; Author, printer,
reader; Word, conscience, reason ; youth, manhood, old
age; Old testament, new, book of nature or life; Pe"s, and
2Te”s; Circumcision, water, H. Ghost, or fire; 3 kinds
of Eunuchs; Steel, flint, fire; breathe through three chan
nels; Sun, his light, his heat; frigid, temperate, torrid
zone; Axle-tree and 2 wheels ; Father, mother, son;
father, mother, daughter; Shell, white, yelk; 3 Spring, 3
summer, 3 fall, 3 winter months; Thunder, lightning, rain;
Spirit, water, blood; Raphael, presiding over Wisdom,
Gabriel, the herald of the gospel, Michael whose chief at
tribute is power; word spoken, word received, word con
sidered; mark, learn, inwardly disest. -
[ 20 J
THE EARTHQUAKE.
King David's Page proclaims the following glorious in
telligence to the WIRGIN MARY (or all the devout people
upon the face of the whole earth.) Jesus your spouse, is
Civil LIBERTY, visiting you with a full force on the morn
ing of this great second advent, which is announced by
amiable Venus in naked attire, (“for loveliness needs not
the pomp of ornament; but is, when unadorned, adorned
the most.”) In her, Lavinia we behold ! Your name is a
new name ; RELIGIOUs Liberty or CHRIST. You are as
Lewis the desired's queen; you shall be crowned this month
with Britannia's king, the Sovereign people. I throw the
gauntlet, and challenge the foe. I am my Lord the King's
armour-bearer. He darts perception into thy huge fore
head, O vast Goliah ! and beheads thee with thy sword
of hieroglyphicks. But you, Bridegroom most divine !
Political FREEDOM I call thee, or Jesus, (one and the same)
thou joy of all the souls of men' Every eye beholds thee at
this day, coming in the clouds of heaven to judge the na
tions. Of you, O bride, a Saviour shall be born ; whose
name is Immanuel !!! !!!!!!!!! Wonderful Counsellor;
Mighty God; Everlasting Father; Prince of peace ;
and of his kingdom, no end. O perfect level of Civil
LIBERTY' thou art Earth in the firmament of heaven, de
lighting thy bride, RELIGious FREEdom, in the full splen
dour of her noctural glory, with a joyful visit, speaking to
her eyes the silent pledge of reciprocal love. Ezekiel's
larger wheel, O Earth º detain the arm of thy partner the
Moon, in thy dance of revolution ; and she being the weak
er vessel, continue foremost in the move to protect her from
the shocks of hypocrites. Now form a triangle with the
Sun, (but always keep him uppermost) in whom you both
live, move, and have your being. Your comrades shall then
be 23 other moons, and 11 other primary planets, (in all 12)
a tree of life for the healing of the nations; namely: Es
[ 21 |
sence, Life, Immortality, Power, Light, Wisdom, Love;
Vital perception, Understanding, Will, Memory, Conscience.
Oh politically free Earth, thou art so fascinating, that Infi
dels, in the high-ways and the hedges, have been compelled
to come in and be first and foremost to consecrate you at
this great supper of the Lamb, and fill his house. Thou
hast opened the two books that were dressed in sack
cloth until now; do thou re-open the great book of nature,
which is the book of life." The vail drops from the eyes
of all flesh. The temple rent in twain shows us a part and
a counterpart, Masonic Jew and Masonic Gentile ; Israel
and Judah. The flaming sword is seen by the ass, he re
bukes the madness of the prophet, which means old age of
the people, and King Saul, who typifies all kings, after
the Witch of Endor calls up old Samuel (of the Theocracy)
dies on his own sword (the fruit of war) on mount Gilboa,
which means revolution of inquiry. Thus the sword is de
parting from the gates of the garden of Eden. Masons,
when they find their key, may unlock the door of their Tem
ple for the females. The times of the Gentiles is fulfilled.
The shadows now inform us of all the substance, which is
sufficiently realized to begin the thunderings, lightnings,
earthquake, hail and rain through all false government, whe
ther of State or Church. Down goes Samson with these
two pillars. Standfrom under. Long did he grind at the
mill of revolution. So much for ploughing with his heifer.
The Queen of Britannia at the head of the female world
may enter the Temple in triumphant glory. Jachin is for
the Earth, and Shibboleth for the Sun. They must be sure
go in at the left door, and whisper Ruth or Moon, or they
have no admittance to the wedding-supper. Thus cry Ho
sanna to the Highest Shibboleth. I write this on the Lord's
day (22d July,) decide ye whether the Spirit has guided me.
Thou art the rose of Sharon, Religious Freedom; the Lily
of the Valleys. Thou art that very Helen, the all beauteous,
whose loss blind Homer sang. Samson stole thee, and
[ 22 )
for this outrage gave his eyes and 7 locks or attributes of
God; Blind Milton,secretary to Cromwell, who said, Take
away those kingly baubles, warbled the song of Paradise
Regained. I have taken a chill; what means it? Am I
longtosurvive thedisclosure,of thissecret? Or am I to suffer
on the rack of persecution, like other martyrs who have been
crushed with their embryo portrait. The press will bring
me to life again. The truths now told are adamantine.
Save me, ye generous sons of Light, lest I depart before the
climacteric, the key-stone of the arch of Concord, enables
us to pass over Jordan. If otherwise; thy will, Great Fa
ther, be done; but let me join old Simeon in the praise.
What dread I ? The triume God of this world, King, priest,
and oath craft P. They can never cross the river Styx. Plu
to's judgment will prove too fiery an ordeal for them.
Thus has every man been rewarded according to his
works. The wickedness of the wicked has retarded this
day; the righteousness ofthe saints has quickened it. Jesus
suffered, the innocent for the guilty. Are they, the bride,
greater than the bridegroom? Balance accounts, and what
remains, but for the saints to possess the kingdom, with
their dear Lord and Master Jesus. If they have conceiv
ed and brought forth in sorrow—now it is joy. The wo—
man shall judge the world. Jesus, or free government has
saved it.
My grand-father, Edward Page, once secretary to the
Bombay government, then chief Supercargo at Chinaforthe
East India Company, was a remarkable man for his piety,
Taking off his hat, as he embarked for India, he dedicated
himself, and one tenth of his income to God. And he re
ligiously adhered to this all his life. Some of his valuable
manuscriptsare in my chest, in Ohio, and testify to the same.
Myuncle,William Pageof Fitzroysquare, London (formerly
secretary to the Bombay government, and afterward a
member in council,) can attest the same. My father has
had 20 children. On his tomb are these words, “Ofevery
[ 23 1
s of
ake
dise
m I
ièr
eel
ſing
ine.
the
les
Fa
St,
\l-
his
his
illS
de,
hat
All
iv
las
he
hº
ty.
le
friendless name, the friend.” As I am on the 12's, know
ye then, that when but 12 years of age, I went as midship
man to the West Indies on board the Leviathan. In two
years I returned. Was also 3 months on board the Dragon,
(see Dragon of the moon) I embarked a free mariuer to
India, which country I left after a constitution that nature,
climate, and a 3 years continuance of mercury, physically
destroyed. I then offered myself to the episcopal society for
missions to Africa and the East; was accepted—but a de
bilitated mind as wellas body, forbade the previous qualifica
tions, and drove me to America, first, with independent mis
sionary prospects. But deviating from the right way, and
becoming sordid since my marriage, (as different from my
true nature as earth is from heaven) I turned speculator for
sooth in an unsettled state of mind; and by land and two
fictitious silver-mines, and exchanging substance for sha
dows, counting unhatched chickens, lost more than 4000
out of 8000 dollars given, and left me by English relatives,
in less than 3 years. Since which, and within 18 months,
I have found a true mine, dearer to me than Golconda's
diamonds.
Thus much of egotism; the silly strain of Christendom.
I had never touched the torpedo, but to exemplify the
science ofcorrespondency in my own history; and to show
that I have degenerated from my fathers, their wisdom and
their prudence, both in exterior and interior, inheriting
nevertheless a certain faculty of noting the ways of Provi
dence; and inquiring into the order of his system, in which
they excelled. - º
Unless you diligently seek for the true meaning of any
sirname, country, mount, river and city in Holy Writ, it
will be in vain to find the allegorical pearl of great price, or
philosopher's stone, in this intricate city of spiritual Troy.
“I have found it!” exclaimed Pythagoras. The square of
the hypothenuse, God and Jesus, [air and water] is equal
to both squares of base, which is Jesus, or political free
[ 24 J
dom, and perpendicular, which is religious liberty, [water
and earth.]
The bandage I have removed. Behold a marvellous
light. Only one lock on the head of a Chinese, and that
denotes unity of many hairs. Thus Indians have given us
a spiritual and political scalping. To their Great Spirit we
must strike our Trinity-flag. God must be all in all—no
more idolatry. The three-headed monster vanishes before
the All-seeing Eye of Masons. However we may dis
tinguish them, the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans are
one, when unobstructed by the interventions of earth, or the
ice of a Northwest passage, which magnet-fire (or love)
may thaw into the tears of a kiss. The waves of Cape
Horn do not comport with Le Boo's mild and halcyon
ocean. The warm Gulf stream visits emancipated Mexico
in the belly of the Goddess of Freedom. A canal at Darlen,
is her womb. Embrace her Asia in the East. Already
have Europe and Africa kissed her in the West. Yea, Af
rica has found in her congress Pharaoh's daughter. Her
sure deliverance is at hand. Moses was born of late, and is
laid in the flags of Missouri by the river's brink. And as
sure as revelation will be all fulfilled, he will deliver the
Africans, and with them the true Egyptian masonry that
shall prevade all. If you ask me for a spiritual barometer,
do not mock the spirit of Elijah, and ridicule my magic art
of coincidence, but mark the progress of African emancipa
tion for your voucher. Africa has been first—is last—may
be first again. -
Note the chandelier broke down in Congress lately;
awhile before that there was an explosion, alas! not by the
virtues of the man of Ross, but general Ross. I wonder
what omen next 2 they will never cease, till John decreases
that Christ may increase. Hear ye not the voice of the
baptist in our wilderness,crying,prepare the way of the Lord,
his paths make straight? Down with hills, and up with
valleys. However I may be aspersed for it, in the name of
the Great Grand Spirit of Spirits, I proclaim a jubilee.
[ 25
JUDGMENT OF THE INQUISITION.
Thegreat and terrible judgment-day of the Lord, com
menced with the death of the Inquisition.
As the temple of Solomon, and its house of Israel, van
ished at the disappearance of the body of Jesus—so will
the fabric of the Masonic house ofJudah undergo a spiritual
cleansing from the money-changers, and become universal
for the collective body of mankind, without a schism, or ex
clusive privilege. Oaths were hatched by king-craft, and
will be consumed in this our day by the fiery indignation of
a queen. Christ will give place to Jesus; and the old
Adam and Eve of folly and hatred, for the new Adam and
Eve of Wisdom and Love. The glory of Immanuel in his
first appearing, is as the glory of one man to the great fami
ly of the world; or the chief corner- one of theTemple, to
the fabric itself—Here then lies the grand mistake. We
have worshipped one man, rather t an all; one great cor
ner-stone have we adored, in preference to the building fitly
framed and perfected ; Jesus is our General' but a gene
ral is not an army, and where is his strength but in that em
bodied power P Thus have I proved, that the first advent
was ushered in by the sacred Jews, or Israel, (comprising
perhaps the lost tribes) and the second, by divine Masons,
or Judah, who got the blessing of Isaac, and is the re
pentant thief, the returning prodigal, whose priesthood is
the only true order of succession, and contains a remnant
of theGentiles of all nations, tongues and people, being that
virtuous cement which can alone sustain the goodly fabric
of mankind in bonds of indissolubility. Other foundation
can no man lay than that of Masonry. They, and they on
ly, can admit, and fellowship with the Jew and the Chris
tian Gentile; with them all the distinctions are exchanged
for that of Brother: no religious, no political strife. Re
joice, O heavens, that the ark was preserved inthe wilder
4.
*
[ 26 )
ness of error; first by Moses, or the Israelitish Jew, and
then by masonic Aaron, the Judah Gentile, or family of
Noah since the death of Christ, now to rest on the evergreen
laurel-hill; whose stream of philanthropy is not the Nile,
but the Mississippi longing towards her sister, the river of
rivers, Amazon; she that is dressed at this day for the co
romation of the Sovereign people, where the word of Jeho
vah is their confederacy in wisdom and love, the greatest
being like unto the least.
Thus has nature, ever uniform, indicated another face to
the Scriptures by a new continent, and the Essen number
12 in new planets; by similarity of reasoning, the 12th plan
etand the 24th American State may appear about the same
time; but never more, for there were but 24 elders. Then
will a jubilee take place, and a Theocracy revive.
A Question. If all the time which superfluous fashion
able dresses,buildings, furniture and ceremonies donow con
sume, and that to no result, but what is vanity and utter
uselessness, were occupied with the 7 liberal sciences, the
culture of the intellect, the ornament of the soil, whose lily
is above even Solomon's glory;... would not the exchange be
a rich gain to the mind, of at least what the body had lost,
which is ideal, as less pain and labour would be the ne
cessary result P. Every oak would then become a fruit-tree;
every weed, a flower. -
SECOND ADVENT DISPENSATION.
To PHILANTHRopists.
Religion and politics are synonymous. Civil and religious liberty
are preparatory to a resurrection from the dead. I am peculiarly im
pressed with the persuasion, that liberty must eventuate in an equality of
possessions; or, in other words, it will enable us to comprehend that
mine and thine, are not the language of perfect charity. . We should
yield all our possessions to the commonwealth, for the good and welfare
of the whole, in all its parts and ramifications. The time for labour
should be necessarily equal, as in an army, or a ship. Every one who
eats, should cultivate the soil, or fish, in due proportion, say three hours
[ 27 )
each day—and as all must likewise engage in some trade, three hours
more may perhaps suffice for such avocation. And, except when har
vest, roads, or other public duties demanded, the remainder of the day
could be spent in reading, music, singing, sacred dancing, and amuse
ments. The progress of knowledge being infinite, every possible stimu
lus of public applause and rejoicing should be given to those whose ap
plication and industry enabled them to make the greatest progress in
the arts and sciences, and invented the best machinery to decrease la
bour. They might be drawn in triumphal cars, while 10,000 times
10,000 musicians were tuning their praise, and music and singing elec
trified the whole with supernal joy. Every difficulty touching a choice
of individual occupation, could be removed by drawing of lots, if an
appeal should be made from the wisdom of the sages, or the majority of
votes;–yet, who could be so hardy even in the present degraded state
ofmankind as to object?
In the name of the God of harmony, and by the coat of Immanuel,
and the water symbol of his baptism, I call upon all the separated links of
his church to unite.
Let names, and sects, and parties fall;
Let Christ, with us, be all in all.
Take the crown of thorns from the head of that blessed Redeemer; bring
forth the royal diadem of peace and unity, and crown him Lord of all.
Attend better to the symbols of sacred writ, which is all a profound al
legory, drawn in the most striking images by Omniscience—the unutter
able I Am that I Am. May we assimilate as water, or leavened
bread, or genuine wine, in our sacrament for the Comforter, the key
stone of the arch. Come out from all those who want faith in this
only true consummation ofJesus, the chief corner-stone, by recovering
our primeval light of right reason, (Melchisedeck’s Oracle.) By thus
returning to equality, sin, death, hell, will eventually cease; because as
all minds become united, harmonized, and blended into one mind, the ab
sent deity would return, revive—for in one another, and in him, in per
fect fellowship, is immortality. All nature's motto is, United we stand,
divided we fall.
Loving the truth, I seek no gain. Freely I have received: freely
I impart.
Your cosmopolite friend,
Edw. P. PAGE. [a double-headed Snake.]
w ==
THE POLAR CHOLERA MORBUS.
In a magiclantern,John Nebuchadnezzar Whisper-oath,
stands upon his head eating the apple of spiritual Sodom.
Reflected by Nathan the prophet (who said, Thou art the
[ 28 J
man) upon the wall of his palace; Lo! he is seen on his
right legs, where he ought to be. Previously, had his blood
settled on his brain, and gave him the lethargy of Jonah,
snoring “all's well!” Electrified, he sounds the last trum
pet, on the walls of Jericho; and swears by Him that
liveth for ever and ever, that “The kingdoms ofthis world
are becoming the kingdomsof our Lord, and of his Christ,”
for, I am “weighed in the balance and found wanting.”
“There is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets:” yea, the
“deep and secret things”—“and changes the times and the
seasons.” He removeth and setteth up kings in his mercy
or anger. Forthwith comes a lightning-rod to the children
of the captivity of Judah from Jewry. He fires a meteor
into the western gate of Babylon (Marietta, the centre near
ly of the United States) fastens a 5 feet diameter mill-stone
to the neck of Bel;—casts him into the ocean of oblivion—
smites the image of Nebuchadnezzar upon his iron and
clay feet, with the stone cut without hands by the science
of facsimiles; and proclaims that this stone shall become
a great mountain, and fill the whole earth. Adulterated
masonry, as it now exists, makes that compound image of
the kings of this world. And the genuine Masonry of
Enoch (purely Egyptian) is the image of the sovereign
people, the king of glory. Vow populi, vow Dei! Now,
therefore, is the battle of Gog and Magog, (see their nicely
distinguished meanings) Saul's 7 sons are hanged with Pha
raoh’s 7 lean kine at the town of 7 sleepers which the
queen of England passed through, (see her trial) if 7 suit
able hills in Rome cannot be found. Saul is kingly power.
Jonathan, his son, is America's political liberty. The re
vived Egyptian whom David found, is the knowledge of
symbols recovered. Ziklag, the fire burns thee! Men of
Belial, the spoil shall be equally divided, yea, if it “frus
trate the tokens of the liars.” The witch of Endor is the
light of our above-named magic lantern. Old Samuel
presents himself on the stage once more, to inform the la
[ 29 J
dies and gentlemen of the unburnt theatres, that they may
pompously bury their kings, painters, actors, generals, ad
mirals, at St. Helena, in the tombs of George III, West,
Washington, Cook, Nelson, Decatur, (who stood square
and plumb, for that's the way to shoot straight balls at the
last act of false glory, looking analogy in the face, and
vanishing like the contest between Britain and an Alge
rine pirate Dey! How are the mighty fallen!—whether in
war, or at a trial for adultery!
The silent bird of paradise for the Sun—the nightingale
for the moon, and the plaintive turtle-dove from the ark of
this earth, are present at the opening of the bride’s female
lodge. The bride and bridegroom's song (to the tune of
the sacred nine.)
SONG.
On the earth, by mistake, nightingale, I do sit, - -
And I, turtle-dove, on the moon-ball;
Like a picture in type, the reverse would befit;
All the world's upside down since the fall.
CHORUS.
Three times three, twelve times twelve, seven times seven, (en times ten;
gain, again, again, and again.
Adam guessed himself Eve—Eve thought herself Adam.
What a blunder the letter has made :
True State is the Church—and the Church—she is madam.
Now the women, free Masons are made.
Earth-rule is Free State; we're a moon to sweet Luna ;
---. . The argus-eyed wheel, it wan'd sleepy—
Tiſſ Cölumbia arose, sanhedrim of doom's-day—
With night-rib she fashions the beauty.
Get your jubilee dress, ye nymphs of the forest,
Masons beckon, but stop you no more ;
Come panting-heart Ruth—come to Bethlehem's soul rest,
Boaz greets on Jerusalem's shore.
A Free Church her name—brothers, open your temple,
Of whose virgin the Saviour is born:
Till the child has appeared, exclude all the rabble,
From the pole" of sea-serpent forlorn.
* The open North pole is the Lodge-door. The ice-bridge of indifference melts,
A sea-serpent of Truth swallows the old Dragon, or deceiver, and presents 24 pro
tuberances to the 24 States America will have. -
I 30 J º
Explanation of the Song. The moon conveys a moral,
to all Calvinists, Arminians, and philosophers, that is worth
her weight in gold. Suppose her on a wheel, and that wheel
taking her round the earth, which isin the axle-tree 4 times
7 days in a month, making one revolution around her own
axis in one ofour months. The earth is her centre ofgravity,
because nearer to her, and therefore more imposing than the
sun—she may conceive herself in her folly to be exclusively
subordinate to any existing government of the earth, this is
her infatuation; for both she and that earth, and all other
planets, equally gravitate to, and are attracted by their su
perior, the sun. So with man's self-will in the ways of
public government. He is drawn, when in the political
whirlpool of his own creation, around the greater magnet
of God, who of his evil, educes certain good; wherefore,
if this threefold motion was well understood, and judi
ciously applied, astrology would revive. Observe, that the
earth being larger than the moon, applies to the state, or
Adam; and the moon with her 12 tides, to Eve or the
church, Hector's beloved Andromache! Consider, the
earthly government as now administered, an intervention
which eclipses him from the sum of God's ever-streaming
love. The new-born man of the new earth, esteems the
church government, or moon,aseclipsed by bad church regu
lations, but in an inferior degree it is true: for, as the earth
in size is to the moon; so is the influence of the state upon
the church–13 to 1. Else how could Eve have been created
out of Adam's rib? This proportion duly observed, and it
being always remembered that the State (or politics) is
Adam with the earth; and that the church or moon is Eve.
Behold then Ezekiel's large and small wheels—man con
trols them both, they move together, eating one of 12 kinds
of forbidden fruit monthly. But when God and liberty be
come Church and State, then 12 manner of fruits, yielding
one every month (to the astrologers and magicians) for the
healing of the nations. The earth turns round the moon
- [ 31 )
30 times as quick as the moon round the earth, and Jesus
was sold for 30 pieces of silver. The church is but a satel
lite to the state, as the moon to the earth. The cart has
been put before the horse. The state-horse always goes
first. Judge ye then, simple christians, how much more
good your vote for God's political government would do,
than lifeless and inefficient prayers! Put your shoulder to
the political wheel; whip your government horses; get the
state carriage out of the ditch, and then pray to Hercules
for the Jesus your exertion has recovered.
Vomit from your North Pole every false government.
Purge from your South every false religion. Two new
pillars: love God, who is found in the collective body of
mankind; love your neighbour as yourself, who is every
individual of that body.
Did you ever doubt what connexion you had with morals
and virtue P And yet what are politics, but that wide sys
tem of duties which nation owes to nation ? Politics are to
nations what morals are to individuals. News from Acel
*-
dama, or Constantinople, by the James Monroe, informs,
that lady Stranford was in man's attire at the Grand Court
of the Turks. I will suppose her to say to all the world—
attention / His Majesty Jehovah greets His Majesty the
Sovereign people, and informs them that his providence,
counteracting the selfish views of nations, and bringing po
litical freedom into the world, is (give him all the glory !)
visiting ahke all the family of mankind in rotation. A little
longer, and the scrabble shall be general at the false kings'
table, and every fragment of monarchy eaten by the people.
Know then the grand secret.. The history of the Jews is
the history of the Gentiles in combination with Masonry or
true Aaron, who conducts the children to the promised land.
Moses, or the old Esau Jew, is a thief not dead, but dying
fast, when jubilees are spoken of The Masonic thief, or
Aaron, will arrive at the head of mankind in paradise, the
only true priesthood being in him. And one would sup
[ 32 ) **
pose that a ninny, with his eyes half open, in thisresurrec.
tion, might discover that the Gentile Christians (so-called)
are only Jews in Aaron's dress,and that their more spiritual
history is precisely what the literal history of the Hebrews
was; with this difference, that Moses relates the part, and
the Evangelists the counterpart, making 9 books—a power
ful number.
Thus having reversed the poles, I advise the Sovereign
People in the words of Lord Rochester, to make their
Bishop the cook, and the cook their republican bishop.
But as the influence of both poles are necessary to perfect
the attraction, so Hiram can only be raised by combined
civil and religious freedom, which eventually subsides into
perfect unity. I am afraid of the locusts, (priests) for they
observe days, months, and years. They must change their
Pharisaical song for the tune of righteousness and true holi
ness. They crucify Jesus when they coerce attention to
the Sabbath. His service is perfect freedom. They would
be better employed in a voyage to China, where they might
learn the numeral source of her language. -
By H. I. Majesty's command, (the great pilot of the
Universe.) Given at Fairy-Castle (ſata morgana) in the
office of Camera Obscura; through a Kaleidoscope which
shows me, that Elba and St. Helena are spiritual Sam
son's spectacle-glasses, had he but eyes. Have faith in
Bibliomancy. Kraken Page, the ghost of poor Brothers;
an executor to the estate of affinities. Comrades, straight to
the heart, said Marshall Ney—fire!—12 balls took effect—
3 in the head. -
4 point-blank, wind-and-water shot into mystery Babylon,
from Long Tom True.
The present kingly and aristocratic form of government,
that controls the whole earth, is Nebuchadnezzar's tree,
which a Kraken torpedo will shortly blow to atoms by a
[ 33 1
)
fire and water spout of Liberty and Equality. Truth will
out at last. 'Tis the Old Adam! And who says no, may
go with the king to grass. And you, hypocritical mother
Eve, straining at your sabbath gnats, and swallowing cam
els of envy, hatred,and malice—are a hydra-headed church,
of proteus or camelion hue; and the veriest witch of a
hag that ever wore a rag: go to your dear hell, (a guilotine
which you have manufactured for yourself) your brimstone
and fire; and leave mankind no longer slaves, but free-born
christian masons. Freedom of opinion and of worship, is
yoursting. The serpent means, the construction to utter
subversion and forgetfulness of symbolic meanings; or the
absence of the following mirror: “Ptolemy Euergetes’s
mirror, in the town of Pharos, at Alexandria, represented
all Egypt, both the water and land.” It was of Chinese
Iron. Soonafter Mahometanism prevailed, the Christians,
(says Abulfeda) destroyed it by stratagem. The metal
was perhaps bright Tutenag.
The Chinese contains Joseph, the long lost one of 12
languages. Macartney, in 1792, when the French Eagle
clapped her wings, visited him in behalf of Judah, and rep
resented Benjamin, or the English. That published by or
der ofNapoleon, of Chinese, into French and Latin, has
4 characters in the frontispiece, HAN TSE SY Y. Han
in the supplement, is, mentum, menti latera. Mettre de lar
gent dans labouche d'un mort. Tse, compter, rassambler;
numerare; congregare centum millia millium. Sy, acci
dent. y, Traduire; Ex uno in aluid idioma transferre
explicare, interpretari.
The Arabs say: One soul is parted among all men. They
say right. And this broken, is the death of Jesus Christ;
and all men must have this one soul again before they revive.
Thesons of Egypt say every man has manysouls; and this
comports with her darkness. Too many dispositions, alas!
E. P. PAGE proposes to publish by subscription, Cornel
ius Agrippa's occult philosophy, in numbers, at 25 cents
s
[ 34 )
each, the customary price of such books; the expense
of the plates to be duly valued. He was counsellor to
Charles W. Emperor of Germany. Men little think that
though their posterity may see immortality; they cannot,
because they have no power, being under wrong and bad
government, and not the law of God. To die as brutes,
in our folly, when we might live on earth as gods, is all for
the want of true education. Believe that the church is the
state, and the state the church, and Paradise is regained.
Thus, having reversed the poles, I advise my lord the
king (or sovereign people) in nearly the words of lord Ro
chester, to make the state cook, or a spirit of political free
dom, the bishop; and the bishop only a republican chap
lain. But as both north and south poles in the magnet are
necessary to perfect the attraction; so Hiram can only be
raised by combined civil and religious freedom ; which
eventually subsides into perfect unity; because it takes 11
languages to China by the N. w. passage, to buy food of
Joseph who is the Chinese language. Benjamin, if neither
masonic angels, Hebrew or Chaldee, is English.
Take the axe of Licurgus, the stubbing-hoe of Moses,
and the spade of our Saviour; eradicate the tree of death
for ever. Build your public temple with gold and silver.
Adorn them inwardly with diamonds, pearls and precious
stones. But ifthe love of money really is the root ofall evil;
ifye cannot serve God and mammon, if gain is the God of
this world; if you would preach to anyeffect, and practice
to a yet greater; put away the lice-money plagueof Egypt,
and crime will cease for ever, when the formation of too
long established a habit with its opposite, is ended. Gold
and silver are metalic conductors of God's electric love in
his house of worship. But out of this their only proper
place, they are a scattered army, devouring his dominions;
highway-men and thieves, purloining and purloined. In
this perverted form, they vary our spiritual compass, magnets
to distract and divide our attention, the death both of sou!
[ 85 )
and body. For out of God we cannot live, and they sepa
rate us by their strange counteracting tendency. This is an
awful truth; but a law of nature that might be philosophi
cally demonstrated by analogy. I should suppose that6000
years of dreadful experiment could confirm my argument.
You ask, what stimulus would there then be for industry,
when all money and circulating medium was forbidden
fruit, never more to be eaten by a law like that of the Medes
and Persians? I reply, public opinion, voice, authority.
Are men to part with reason and intellect when they loose
this deadly spring to their industry P or will not rather a
more rational, exalted, and effectual spring be found to
supply its place P ever active and fertile in expedient, the
collective wisdom of all, would divise a remedy more
effectual than folly, covetousness and selfish reasoning.
But all other argument apart. While we handle money
or circulating medium of any kind, no truly Religious and
Political freedom shall we realize, and consequently no birth
of God or political Saviour and new-birth. With money,
strife and hatred ceases. Every mind is then and then only
free; and then and only them are the government and church
free. How cam true magic revive, which is the root of all
good, until the love of money is entirely overcome 2 masons,
I have been too fast. Keep your temple shut, from every
one that will not divest himself of metal and bank notes.
The outward wheel has to move a little more. Let your
flaming sword protect Eden awhile longer, and indeed for
ever against money changers. Sampson may therefore
go to Tammany Hall, and get combed, shaved, or
scalped, for he has got shameful lousy since he was blinded.
A true magician can abolish money, but never create it.
'Tis mildew and blight. No rich man can enter the kingdom
of God ; morally and physically impossible. -
Contrasted with Pandora's box, or bad government; and
the Upas tree, or bad church : are the 12 manner of fruits,
one with each month for the healing ofthe nations.
f
[ 36 )
Magicians, classify your ideas; have method, selection,
arrangement, system. Number them, or shut up shop.
-
A MIRACULOUS TABLE OF NUMBERS.
a 1 || b 2 c 3 | d 4 e 5 |f 6 | g 7 |h 8 i 9
a 11 b 12 | c. 13 | d 14 |e 15 | f 16 | g 17 h 18 i 19
a 36 b 35 | c. 34 d 33 |e 32 | f 31 | g 30 h 29 i 28
a 26 b 25 c 24 |d 23 |e 22 | f 21 | g 20 h 19 i 18
a 1 b 2 | c. 3 | d 4 |e 5 | f 6 | g 7 h 8 i 9
a 9000 b 8000 | c. 7000 |d 6000 |e 5000 | f 4000 | g 3000 [h 2000 i 1000
a 800 b 700 | c. 600 d 500 e 400 |f 300 | g 200 h 100 i 90
a 20 lb 30 | c. 40 |d 50 |e 60 | f 70 | g 80 |h 90 i 100
j 10 |k 11 || 12 |m 13 | n 14 |o 15 | p 16 q 17 | r 18
j 20 l k 21 || 1 22 |m 23 | n 24 o 25 | p 26 q 27 | r 28
j- 27 k 26 || 25 m 24 | n 23 o 22 | p 21 q 20 | r 19
j 17 k 16 || 15 |m 14 | n 13 o 12 | p 11 q 10 | r 9
j 10 || k 20 || 30 m 40 | n 50 |o 60 | p 70 q 80 | r 90
j 900 |k 800 || 700 |m 600 | n 600|o 400 | p 300 q 200 | r 100
j 80 |k 70 || 60 |m 50 | n 40 |o 30 | p 20 q 10 | r , 9
j 200 |k 300 || 400 || m 500 | n 600 |o 700 | p 800 I q 900 | r 1000
s 19 t 20 |u 21 |v 22 |w 23 | x 24 |y 25 |z 26
s 29 t 30 u 31 v 32 |w 83 | x 34 y 35 | z 36
s 18 t 7 u 16 v 15 w 14 | x 13 |y 12 |z 11
s 8 ||t 7 u 6 v 5 w 4 | x 3 |y 2 |z 1
s 100 t 110 u 120 |v 130 w 140 | x 150 |y 160 |z 170
s 90 t 80 u 70 v 60 |w 50 | x 40 |y 30 |z 20
s 8 t 7 || u 6 || V. 5 || W. 4 | x 3 |y 2 || 2 1
s 2000 ||t 3000 |u 4000 |v 5000 |w 6000 | x 7000 |y 8000 |z 9000
The first line answers to the 12 Zodiac Signs: the 3 next, to the 3 Sons of
Chora; Jubila, Jubilo, Jubilum ; or 12 primary planets and 24 moons in the Solar
System: The other 4 lines are magic ; :".. the 2 Northern and 2 Southern
Constellations. Aphelion, eat astronomical manna. True rattlesnake, eat false
rat. America's Bull-Frogs cry Liberty. Free state trade, and rightsof conscience.
36 35 34 33 32 31 3029 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 2019 18 17.16 15 14 13 12 11
a c e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x z
A B C D E F (; H I j K L M N O P q R. § { w x \ }
1 3 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 15 16 17 18 21 22 23 24 2526
i ; i. i.
:
8 9
3 2
1 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 11 1
9000 8000 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 900 800 700 600 500
0 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 a b c d
400 300 200 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
Hiram's concord bolus, for the rubbish of king-craft, and the conflagration of
all discord. Fools' dissociation is ammutation and death. When the cock's
head and body are two, can he crow “Yankee-doodle-do *
$2
-*^n
º
，
）,
）;
→
E
-
5
-5
3.，
§§
șTĂ
#
??
•
>
•
•
•
（;
，
**
**
:=
5
8--
>=
=
=
E
&
=
~
º
ſe
unğğ
ºğžĚ
••
•
•
*
*
-
=v
>
c
—
e
o
-e••tr^-
º
.E.,ſº
º
„º
§
5•
E
•
！=
=
=
=
=-
<
>>
tae--
o
E-
o
>
•
-
º
ºÈ.
~
Oe
-
=
•
o
-5
et
…，
3.，
~~E
=
E
-
-=
=
=
=
=
-
*
r.,3
E
c
~=
w
-->
--~
•
F-
e
-
ŠĖ####
*№.2-
=
&
E∞
#
º
=
E
~~
-.-
»º
ſē
ſēž
§
§
£>º
+=
=
-
-
-=
=
=
º–
–
–--
>
E
>.
-
„
tº
o
B
-
o§255
3
©
2–À
©
c
|
$2
=
*
E
=E
•
se
-
-
o
-e-
...š."，
º
£
©
©-5-<£
€w
--
>
-º--
º***
__
<>
•·
|-
_：:
s)
-
-
.ae
，«
-=
x
--
ºº
o
E-
£
23.
–
5dv
q>
•
•-→•
E
===
=
=
±
5
5
ºſº
---
>-
5
，
-E
&
§
„;
-E
E
--F
–taen:：
-
~33
T
5E
È
§
25
----ğ-
-
-=
&
-
-
-
>•–>
e
--
>
••
•
•
•
E
LE.，
，
，
,E
2
©
§§-
-aeE
P
----E±5
•
•
•
•-
»ſī
ģŠĶĪſā
ā
Q
5§§Š–
w
–
o
–
c
–
–
–
–
Eā
→
·•
•
>©>
e
=
*
-
~~
•
#
#
#5.#
2
r
n.«
*±
--:
•
•
----
Tā.5
35
-5°r.
-5-
→
ſſ—
•
—
•
•
•
=
<---
-
€Þ
-=
e
>
o
=•
-
-
-
----
ĞžËļºš
i
t<~•
.::
-r，
-
-
q)|-*
-
*
：=
e
>
o
=Ëſon
"25
$.
E
ºs
!
|--*=
c
…！-
ºù
*
c
».
«
—ſā）.
№，
º
ž
č.
G^
，
^~X5
--
v
=o
•
c
-=
c
–
–
+
D=
>
-
„
”
‘3.ě
ſ
#
$
$
$'）,
#
o
+→.
•
·
@
E
9
§„，，
.º.
º
-~occo•
c
=
<---
©-
*
:=
e
>
o
=
∞
→
|×----$țăåģºß„Șși
l--º
=
—
—
•
—Q
-=
c
>
<
-=
x.-£
€∞.ÈŠà
^_^_^++
）
---Ť
Ť
Ť
Ž
ŽĪĪĪĪĪ
5
º~șT
ş#,###$,
È
t^
^
-=
-
-
-«,
***
±
----
-，
！
！
=$
$
$ț?5-e:
c
→
c
º
go
-
-
-º
º>•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
►-.
ŘgË#####
#|
·-
-----
2
3
E|-·l.¿.*#
5
=
*~>
—
•
•
•
•
•„,
，
•
•
-
B
=
e
>
o
=
e
>
º
=
*
-
*ſējā
ºlā
—
ā
g}
----
---
***£
€--
º-
-
-=
=
E
（E
º
c
--ſº
••！
„Țſ,
ĒĒģ
=
^~
-
S
£
€<>=
F
*
-
-
„
！=
c
---
=
Z
E
Éw.
•~
£
º
es
>
C*
-->
--~
3
įžğšĖĖĘĚ
È
∞
→$
|
№
=
«
E
=
-=
-rº<;
È
E
•
•
•
•–
→
E
*-È
Ê
ÊE$
$
$
35
3
3
§§！
4—
–
•
–
—
−
=
=
=
=
Z
Ž>
→
<
>==
>--
~~
•
E
§§##ĒĒĒĒ�
-
-
=
<
E
=*::
-
£
©----
-
º
quaebºlº
=
-，
$----------##---&#7ÍŽIŤ
Ť
Ť
ŽIŤ,'######ā
ģ
–
=
-
e
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
"Tº
ň
º
~
Fºº
**
*
**-
•
•
•
E§§§§
ģ*
§&
-
e
E-3
***----
>
e
-
º
«
E
=
E
=
E
&
=
-
&
&>º
-
E
o
re
…
--»
-
~~
•
E–
→
·
§§§§§§=
pavå
ºn
ºs
º
~
=
&
=
=
=
&
=-
<
>
••
>
o.
E
c
~
~
~
~
~
~
£
-
c
>
•ĒģgŽğĚğ.
-
•
tr^3
-5
-r:�
§
#
!！
=
5
Tººts
332,
5
ă
,
º
Ğ
ºf
3
×
E
§
$22
ſă
ț¢
£7，5
ă-ș*
£
35
52€
3
）
Ļ--~~~~
·
|-
-
-|-·
…
_–_~~~~
~~~~~TET，*ģ
Ķ
ķ
ļ
ņ
（№ſz
=
-
º
！=
）;
„?
№
š,
ž,
ca
:-）-
ſºī£
er
º
£
și
!
| 38
Oblong square, is human laws;
But square-rigged square—Lore, Wisdom and Jehovah's cause :
For being such a Wizard devil,
Pray honest crafts, am I uncivil
At midnight Castlereagh in parliament ſorgave
The Witches, and the Wizards;–are you then less brave 2
Euclids' 47th Proposition.
A GILEAD PILL FOR THE DEBILITATED.
I married a woman older than myself; because, consistently with my views, it
was Hobson's choice. For I was determined to have no image of my imperfect
selfto echo my diseases. I recommend others to look, before they leap—expe
rience proves to me that I have been too credulous and precipitate all my life—
departing from my mentor, right-reason, which has not quite forsaken me, for I
eat no meat, sleep hard ; with cats and dogs, turn from hot food—and spurn tea
and coffee. I have learnt no music—but no soul on earth loves it better. I am
partly a wild beast, because I cannot tune the lyre. What dead and alive, inani.
mate souls must quakers have who reject such harmony
CHECK-MATE.
F.I.EGY to nonARchs.
The printers thrive, the death of idol kings;
And light succeeds to bigotry all blind—
The mask is off—in effigy each swings;
And jubilee revives the public mind.
No more we hear St. Peter bless St. Pope;—
No more the Inquisition wonders tell!—
The lunatics have lost their dearest hope;
Their song has fled to heav'n—their works, to hell.
Their pag'ant grandenr now forever gone —
Their spoil divided 'mong their people gay—
Oh! how they sought to hide from men this morn—
How did they quake when knowledge sent a ray!—
Ah, who can utter all their gracious will — -
What heart suffice to thank them for their pow'r?-
Their will the people broke—their waves are still–
Their pow'r departs in this their evil hour—
High did they sit upon the throne of wealth—
Oft did we tremble at their fearful nod—
In bondage vile we ſawn'd upon their stealth ;
We kiss'd their toe, and cry’d, behold our God.
No Juggernaut more idoliz'd than they—
No fools more silly than their subjects blind—
In ev'ry coin, their image help'd us pray—
In ev'ry war, we found them cruel kind.
How graciously they robb'd the poor of bready
And fed their bishops een to gouty death—
For lordly nobles, seas of blood were shed,
Poor sſaves would cringe, yea to their latest breath
EPITAPH.
Here sleeps their pride upon the bed of day !---
No more they rock the cradle of despair
[ 39 )
Their dogs will howl no more—nor Luna bay—
No orphan starve—no widow rend her hair.
How sweetly did the honey of their tongues,
Betray their subjects into worship crude —
How glitt'ring were their baubles and their songs---
But false as flatt'ry were this snaky brood.
By Education are their crowns dissolv’d—
At Liberty's behest we storm'd their hive—
The drones depart, when workmen are resolv’d,
No more § men against their brethren strive.
->4 cº
The Spark Brig of War,
Just return'd from afar, ---
Water brings us from this Earth's four quarters :
º For Eden regain'd,
After Wisdom was maim’d,
To the four winds of heaven spreads oath's tortures.
Triangle Delta, pelt her with Katafelta, until she brings forth Eve, the Judah.
Tell the misses, to look atºpisces, for there the snakes are turned to fishes.
TH NY || || THF
T+ A N "|||ſ|HR
L- V. kl, l L HH
- N A l illrld
THE ANCIENT CHALDEE ASTROLOGERS’
AND MAGICIANS” ALPHABET,
(BY THAT WIZARD covic SECTIO.YS)
Is here presented to a ſº and venerable public, whose heart loves the
truth when the phlegm of crafts and parties is purged away. The alphabet In
dex, is my own assimilation, together with the digits. And please to notice that
a digit is the 12th part of the sun or noon's diameter; and that the proportion in
Tylee's Horologium, is as 3-4 inch to 9 inches; making the falling coues to ad
vance just one digit beyond those on the º:side.—In my two-fold cross for
Boaz and Ruth, you will readily discern that every one of these 36 geometrical
characters, is exactly found: consequently, the ancients must have thought the
cross to possess more virtue than just two sticks have, on which flesh was cruci
fied. . But it was the curse of the dark ages to hide this fact from our eyes; and to
this day they continue it Hiram, or Love, how art thou slain---and separated
| 40 J
as Captain Cook's body was ---All good people ---If you have ancient honey-flow.
er fragments among your books---give me access to them. I will hide them un
der no bushel, but fit them to the Grand Lodge-hive, the True Temple Hands
across, brothers; Sun and Moon stand still Judah (see J, in my table) or 80,
goes into Israel, or 90,and vice versa: the sum of which is 170, Great news from
Egypt brought by Capt. Lyon of the British Lyon---The Tyber and Nile are one.
Let Mississippi and Amazon be one, and we have four rivers for Eden---The bride
may wash in Amazon. The lofty mountains of the old world, represent Adam---
the inferior of this new, are Eve. Of Eve or the church is the Saviour born.
Rise Peter Universal Church ---kill, eat symbolic meat---Captain Lyon's 12
Camels loaded with heads from the caves for the Algerine pirates, have an appli
cation with the Magicians, could the key of the imº. be found in the 8th
of Ezekiel.
The Electric Spirit of Spirits to his divided, therefore, non-conductors---My
Image, the Sun, is a globe of Lightning for your bodies---Depart your ice-caverns,
where ague is your folly. The beams of my Intellectual fluid, always endeavour
for the angular points of your wishful minds. Why then a casement of error to
obstruct your lens 2 I am concave-eyou convex. Remove the veil. I shine.
Receive me. Send me your mental kites hy the Franklin hand of experiment---
I will metamorphose all your hatred into love.---By Ohio's Eagle river I will do
it---for such I commanded the Savages to name that stream, that my messenger
Page may be baptized in it.---Pope, Mahomet---Luther, Calvin---Fox, Penn---
Whitfield, Wesley---Go to school---learn spiritual Allegation.---By the Ganges, the
Nile, the Mississippi, the Amazon---I command the flaming sword to depart from
Eden, andthe ass to speak. Esau betokens the coast of Africa---Jacob, South Ame
rica. Arise, shine---thy light is come.---Babylon labours---Egypt's science revives,
the captives return to Jerusalem. Shiloh is born. Shibboleth, thy corn is for
all, Hireling priests, depart in peace.
Eternal Hell is with kings, and all usurpers. Eternal heaven is with the Sove
reign people. See this, and live for ever!---I see it, Oh my Redeemer! I see it!
And may I be tormented in the hell of king-craft and priest-craft for ever and ever,
ifthere is any other hell alluded to by our Saviour and all Scripture than the hell
of usurped governments in State and Church which the accursed thieves have
most hypocritically made the people believe, was after this life. . But the last
trumpet now sounds Wengeance, and the exasperated people who have been so
innocently gulled by these devils d”"d, will hurl them to Lucifer's perdition,
and dash out their brains against the Gibraltar ofTruth. Burn them in Vesuvius,
scatter their ashes to the 4 winds of heaven, and part their garments among the
eople. -
p §. Judah may have dissolved partnership with Mr Israel when Mahomet and
Pope turned back to back.
Advance my Vestal virgins, advance to the sublime degree The Sun in the
Firmament is my Type . He is an orb of magnetic fluid to fructify the bodies of
the created. I am the same to all souls that he is to all bodies. But my centre
is every where, my circumference, no where. I am mentally and spiritually,
what all the suns in all the systems are to infinity of infinity. Two pillars, never
theless, belong to this my Temple : the Light of Wisdom, and the heat of love---
These are the everlasting Adam and Eve; State and Church ; Bridegroom and
Bride. By Wisdom, I regulate the Northern Constellations which are 9 and 9.
By Love, the Southern which are also 9 and 9. In condecension to the infirmity
. . flesh,--- I become but one Sun and one System.---My son Jesus is the
righteous government of the world as one universal commonwealth---the people
the only Sovereign---and they upon the most perfectlevel of liberty and equality,
with no deviation of this compass, no not º millionth part of an inch, which
would be hell. All hell and misery proceed from the loss of liberty and equali
ty's equilibrium
8 9 0
2. 3 || 4 3 || 6 7
Y- Z I
V. W ºr
P Q || R. S T. Ur
IM N O -
J. IC . L -
ID IE | T G | H. I
A. B C
THE MAGIC CROSS AGAIN; OR CAP-STONE.
Mark: 144 occult angles in the capitals of our Alphabet, for area of Ruth's pil
Tar; and (reversed as Hebrew magic) 144 for Boaz's You can make 4 circles in
the above plate intersecting each other, and comprehending between and within
them, as many letters as the compass has points.
The Beast and his number, (found at last) we are scalped and skinned. How
ugly old Eve or the church looks, and reads, when the A is excluded from [A]
dam Eve (read to the left also.)
Herod signifies, glory of the skin; and he is a sly F O X
6 60 600
Singular discovery. (See the American, for Aug. 3, 1821. M. Gonard's-At
'las engravings of Egypt, &c. Contrast this with Ptolemy Euergetes's mirror.
The world has been covered with a Wolf's cloak---let her now undress herself
at this toilette, and behold beauty in a naked Venus.
The great Nootka cod-fish swallows the moon. (See her eclipse in J. R. Jew
‘ett's narrative.)
Wiseacres, will you be wizards 2—Be teachable—have pious credulity. I de
monstrate that the sum of the square of 12 is equal to the square of 9—and 9 is
12; and so is 7, and so is 4; because they each have 12 angles—But 5, 6, and 8
have 24.—Yet 1, 2, 3, have none. All the digits have 108 angles. 9 is 12; ergö
I2 is 9 : and 4 is 9 or 12. Nine and 7 are triangles. The triangle of F is shaped
as in the 47 proposition of Euclid; but 9 is equilateral. -
Puzzlepate's parallel rule says, that the angſes in each of the 4 external trian
gles of his magic square cross, contain 9 triangles; in all 36 ; each of 3, ang.
making 108 ang. Ånd the interior square has 108 ang.; and the 9 original Arabic
digits have108 ang, and Euclid's 47th problem has exactly 108 ang.
.A picture.—Patrician Britannia, and Plebeian Columbia, before King Wisdom
(present Queen Love, having breasts swelled with nectar, suckling Liberty). The
judgment of the king decides, that Columbia is the true mother; who in gratitude
É.". the lovely babe Equality, or the Comforter (afterwards Immanuel's
ride) to the Queen, and she adopts her as her daughter. The Dragon of the
moon then appears between two circles, and swallows Britannia. Columbia is
Noah's Columba " a dove. 6
The Sea Snake ofthe concave pole, announces the Agency number 5 in
[ 42
his last appearance (see the papers of Aug. 8, 1821.)
Quoth Adam to Eve, “my beauty,
Our children mistake their duty :
We are the State and Church 1 vow,
Cain,_-Jew ; Abel,-Judah, you trow :
But Sampson means great secrecy,
In other words, 'tis Ma (son) ry [son of Mary]
45 123 67
His foxes are three hundred sects,
His lion hive sweet peace begets.
His changes, thirty emblems are—
His seven locks, the eyes of God's star!
His philistines, the holy league of kings,
Lords, priests, and all such pretty things.
With Baalam's bone he kindly slew
A thousand orders—so adieu.
Now ev'ry craft, still wiser grown,
May blend as water, all in one.
King Solomon is Wisdom Great!
Hiram of Tyre is Love in State
And he of Abiff, is the art
of polish'd science faith's bright chart
Seven grades of light conform the world
To God's seven attributes unfurl’d;
Step after step, in grand ascent,
Reaching the throne magnificient.
And look you well to Egypt's lore,
And all its hieroglyphic store;
Its darkness into light divine,
May change the moon, for solar shine;
And give a captive world some tree,
Of perfect love and liberty.
The four Evangelists proclaim,
The cherubim has left the wane—
But Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
For ages took an opiate sob.
The temple is a glorious hive;
No drones with bees may longer thrive.
Concordance says, king Saul means---what?
And Gilboa, revolution's chat.
The woman is the Church, that hid
In stalks of flax the promis'd seed.
Our constitution is that flax ;
And Jericho's power, seek its tracks.
John's sweet and bitter book he ate,
Isthislevelling book of State.
King David pierc'd the giant look,
With one smooth pebble from the brook;
Four others yet—now quere ye
Who riddles con, if these agree
With senses five 2. If you think so,
The symbol sword must deal a blow.
But slave-rule thy walls will totter,
When seven horns begin to clatter,
E’en if parsons only sputter.
And Babelmandel's straits of hell
May serve confusion's direful knell,
Where Pluto's Judah--cave may tell.
-
w
