{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ashley_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Ashley P NDE 691","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ashley P NDE 691  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ashley P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						221  Ashley P NDE  691  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was ten years old and on school summer holidays when, on the 16th of August 1977, I remember it being a warm summer morning. My mother had just left for work when a friend of mine agreed to meet me at the local prefabs (disused grounds), so being young and excited I agreed.


When I arrived, he was there with his friend who I'd never met before. This boy was a very mischievous child and a bit of a bully who got us to go around the prefabs looking for bits and pieces to build a tree house. We went along with this against our will, probably out of fear.


He picked a tree against the side entrance of a public house called 'The Spotted Dog', where beer was delivered, there was an eight foot wall separating the pub from the prefabs. The ground of the prefab was at the level of the top of the wall. The wall had railings, spear-shaped railings and against these railings was the tree he picked to build the tree house in. The tree was surrounded with high dry hay-like grass.


The tree was an old oak tree around thirty feet high.  We gathered corrugated-iron fence-panels that separated the prefabs from a road. We began to build the tree house well into the afternoon. I was asked to test it out by this bully so I climbed up the tree to the inside of the tree house. I remember looking out and down and saw my friend pleading with this bully not to set fire to the grass but he did so anyway. I started to feel the heat up the tree and the strong smell of smoke. I remember panicking then stepping back then all of a sudden finding myself on the tarmac lying face down in the Spotted Dog's delivery yard.


I thought to myself, I am all right, as I looked up. I felt no pain I could remember nothing of the fall from the tree. I tried to get up then felt a weird sensation of a heavy weight on my left shoulder. I looked down to look at my arm to see it hanging by a few tendons from what was my elbow. The bones were all exposed there, was no blood coming out immediately because when I was on the floor I was lying on my arm and this must have stopped the blood from exiting the wounds.


The sight was horrific. I went into shock. I turned round to see my friend minus the bully looking down and saying with tears in his eyes, 'Are you alright? Are you alright?' Then the blood came gushing out, massive jets of crimson-red blood congealing on the floor like porridge oats, the colors of the clouds started going multi-colored, all the colors of a rainbow.


I then began losing my sight, just like the drawing curtains of a theatre stage. It was pitch black with a small white spot in the center.  The light in the center was a small white spot that began to get bigger and bigger until it went into an absolutely brilliant and blinding mass that surrounded me.


I felt weightless I felt without a body and at one with my surroundings. I felt contented with a feeling of warmth, love, peace, and serenity.   The feeling of not wanting to come back was overwhelming, it felt like what I would describe as the feeling a baby would have in its mother's womb - safety, love, and excitement of what's to come.


I felt that something invisible to me was guiding me saying it's not your time yet! Then all of a sudden, I found myself looking through my eyes, at my mother in the back of an ambulance with the sirens sounding.  My mother confirmed to me later that the ambulance took forty-five minutes to get to me, I remember nothing else, I do not think I was supposed to. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    16th August 1977

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death Death due to loss of blood.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Only after losing sight, weightless.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Higher level, totally at one with my surroundings.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   No time exists there!

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I just felt everything in a spiritual way. (At one.)

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     The light came to me and wrapped around me.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     The 'It's not your time yet!' communication was without sound just a very strong feeling, from where I do not know.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Black with a white dot in the center a bit like the old TV's when you turn them off.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A dimension of brilliant static electric white light as best as I can describe it.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that I no longer fear death, I just fear the dying.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain     No I was sent back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   A feeling of not wanting to return but the decision was, it is not your time yet!

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Don't stick your head into the oven when somebody tells you to.  Anything is possible, a feeling of connectedness, all is written, the future can be seen; only when you are in tune and when you are supposed to see.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Not allowed to remember beyond the Light.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Atmospheric awareness, two UFO sightings, precognition, lots of deja vue.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       At one with the other side, peace, warmth, love etc.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Mixed reactions, your experience is your own unless they are you.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I think that's all.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ashley_p_nde.html