{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ashley_g_fde.html","mytitle":"Ashley G FDE 21909","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ashley G FDE 21909  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ashley G FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1730 Ashley G FDE 21909  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					One night, I was riding with three of my friends in my friend Mikey's car. It was I in the back seat behind the driver. My friend JT was next to me. My best friend at the time, Alicia, was sitting in the passenger seat. Mikey was driving. It was a little red car. We were driving around 7:00 pm down a curvy road. I think it was in November because it was already dark. It was raining, but not very hard. We were coming down a hill and at the bottom of the hill was a semi sharp turn to the right. Mikey was driving about sixty-five miles per hour, and I told him to slow down but he didn't. We reached the bottom of the hill and right before the curve, I remember there was an old run down barn to the right. Then when he went to go around the curve, he lost control of the car.

I felt like I was standing outside the car on the side of the road in the right in front of the barn. The car seemed to be a hundred feet away. I could see the red car. I could see us in the car, I could see the car spinning and sliding across the wet pavement, and I could see the other cars and their headlights coming from the other way. I kept thinking that they were going to hit the car. It all seemed like it was in slow motion, but I was in normal motion. As soon and the car stopped I was back in the car just sitting there wondering what had just happened. The car never rolled or hit anything. It just spun around a couple of times. We ended up on the opposite side of the road in the ditch facing the other way. We all sat there for a moment. Nobody said anything, and then Mikey just drove off like nothing happened. Still, to this day, I never felt that I was really in the car the whole time it was happening.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    near accident   none  It could have been.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My physical body was definitely in the car but my mind wasn't.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was one hundred percent alert and conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was all in slow motion, but I was in normal motion.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There were no noises, actually I couldn't hear anything.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   Only headlights.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A lot of anxiety. A lot.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I never felt like I was safe riding with him. Two years after that in the same car he got into a really bad wreck where three of his passengers were extremely hurt but no one was killed.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I never really felt the paranormal was real, but I was also really young. I could always figure out an excuse for what I would feel or see. But after that it was definitely something I couldn't explain.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can still remember it like it just happened. I can tell it just as it happened but the feeling is indescribable. Every time I think about it or talk about it it’s the same feeling, even after six years.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Before the experience, ever since I was little, I've had weird dreams. All my dreams are always paranormal. Some are really weird, some are scary.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It definitely makes me believe that there is another world out there that a lot of people can't imagine. And if there really is, I want to know all about it.  I can't think of a bad thing really, except not really understanding how it could happen.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't think that they really believe me. Or that they really don't understand.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ashley_g_fde.html