{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1arthur_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Arthur W NDE 2576\/22781","mylang":"de"}
          	        Arthur W NDE 2576/22781  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Arthur W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						830  Arthur W NDE  2576/22781  					  				  			      	  			  				

  		              		Experience Description 2576:     

  					  I was playing pool with my wife in a tavern (she was NOT drinking, she was pregnant with our first child). There was an incident between the people we were with and another group. Somebody from the other group was stabbed. We Ran. As I was running down the street, a car that was owned by someone from the other group hit me. I flew over the car and landed in the street hitting my head and arm. Instantly I was 'floating above the scene' looking down. I noticed that there was darkness around me; the only thing I could see was the scene below. But I did FEEL a Supreme presence. I watched below as the car turned around and came back to run me over again. It was heading toward us way to fast to go around me. My wife was in front of my body, arms extended. Just before impact I cried, 'Please God, not now.' And I watched the car pass through us. Yes. It passed through us.

Then I was back inside my body in the Worst kind of pain. My head was gashed and bleeding, and I had a broken arm. There were, as I said, Witnesses to this event. The only one available is my Ex-wife Teresa. The Ambulance arrived and I denied medical attention. I went to the hospital myself the next day. Since this, I have had an Unshakable belief in God. Though I am not in any way Religious. I feel my belief is more of a personal Relationship with God than any religious dogma.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male  

Date NDE Occurred:    Approximately March 1979 and I only know this because of my sons age.  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  I was hit by a car, there were numerous witnesses including my wife at the time.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was Not in a hospital when this happened, and nobody checked for a pulse or any other signs of life..  I was hit by an automobile at a high rate of speed.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was not paying any attention to what I looked like at the time, my attention was on the scene below.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      My body was completely unconscious, but my Spirit was completely alert.  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No     

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No       

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No       

The experience included:      Void  

The experience included:      Darkness  

Did you see an unearthly light?      No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I only had Emotion.  

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Indifference, until I saw the car coming back towards me, then it was more of Panic, I knew if it ran me over again, I would be dead, frankly I believe my wife and unborn child would be dead too (physically, because there really is no such thing as death).  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I only knew there was a Presence. I believe it was God.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I pleaded to come back. I said No God please not now.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate     

What is your religion now?      Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Not really, I have always believed in God, but now there is No question.  

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best is that I came back. The worst is the physical pain.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some think I'm crazy. Others just agree. My second son Jeremy has a stronger relationship with God.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      None I can think of.        


  Experience Description 22781:   

    My wife and I were visiting some friends. Our six month old child was with my mother. My wife and I went across the street with three other people to a local pub. I had not been drinking yet. A fight ensued between one of the people we were with, and another patron and his friends. The other patron was stabbed. My wife and I ran from the scene. As we were crossing the street, the friends of the stabbed patron chased us in the vehicle they were driving.  As we were in the middle of the street I realized that my wife was about to be hit by the vehicle and I pushed her out of harm’s way, but was struck myself. I flew over the top of the car and landed on the back of my head.

Instantly I was outside my body, hovering above the scene. I was completely alert. I was in a void and surrounded by only darkness, but I could see the scene below me. I was quite aware that I was no longer inside my body. I could see myself laying on the ground and all those I had been with looking on. My wife was standing in the street turned facing the other direction and I realized she was watching the vehicle that had hit me turned around and heading back towards us for a second time. Three things came to my thoughts. One. That if the vehicle was to hit me again that would be it! Two. That my wife was in danger again. As she was standing in front of my body with her hands waving to the automobile in a fashion as to flag them down. Only they were going way too fast to stop and way too close to miss.  Three. My six month old son was foremost in my mind. I remember sensing a presence, nothing visual but I knew I was Not alone! I said, ‘Please Dear God, No! Not Now!’ I saw the car pass through the scene, it did not swerve, and it did not turn. It passed directly through, leaving my wife and my body untouched. Instantly after that I found myself laying on the ground, back inside my body writhing in pain. This story can be confirmed! Teresa, who was my wife at the time, can confirm it. We are no longer married. But she recalls this event as well as I do. She also claims that the car passed directly through the scene, there was No way for it not to, it was going way to fast and was too close to either miss or swerve out of the way. But miss it did, and left everyone untouched. In my experience, this was nothing short of miraculous.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 March 1980  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury  Hit by an automobile  Life threatening event, but not clinical death uncertain as to physical condition as I was not examined by medical professional until after I re-entered my body  I was hit by an automobile.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more aware of a Presence of God.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Only during my experience outside my body was I at the highest level of consciousness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time as we know it did not exist. I was only aware of the space that I inhabited, but was certain that there was more beyond it.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Although I could see the scene below me I was not able to hear what was being said, I could not hear anything that was below me.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was at peace with myself, but felt extreme concern and compassion for my wife and child.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian, I believed in God but was not affiliated with any particular church, or religion/my belief could not be confirmed by my lifestyle  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have a closer relationship with my Creator.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Non-Denominational Christian, at present I not only believe in God, I know He exists! My belief can be confirmed by my lifestyle.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a closer relationship with my Creator.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That God Is Real. That He truly cares for us, and that He has definite plans for each of us.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm no longer as self-centered. I have had family members, friends pass away, and I do not feel the need to grieve. I do not fear death.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Any verbal or written expression of the experience can only be vague; this is something that has to be experienced firsthand on order to comprehend the event.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I wouldn't necessarily call it psychic. Certain times I can predict things. An example is the home I am living in presently. We were searching for a home, and when we passed by this house I was told we would be living in it. I said, ‘That is going to be our home.’ The appearance of the home was a bit better than we would have expected.  Everyone who was with me said, ‘No way.’ But here we are, living in it. I have many experiences of this nature.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Presence of God, an extreme sense of compassion.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have only shared this with people close to me. Most have no doubt as to its validity.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of it but did not believe such a thing was truly possible.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Unexplainable, words cannot do this justice.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     All I can say is it was real, I can recall the event as if it happened yesterday.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have no doubts that this happened.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       As I have said, words cannot describe it.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1arthur_w_nde.html