{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1arthur_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Arthur M Possible NDE 9616","mylang":"de"}
          	        Arthur M Possible NDE 9616  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Arthur M Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Anesthesia;Possible NDE  						5181 Arthur M Possible NDE 9616  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    In May of 2022 my father had passed away at age 62. I wasn't able to say goodbye to him. I am still shattered into a million pieces and started having really bad headaches from the stress of it.  The headaches would get so bad, I'd be on the floor withering in pain.  One night while I was at work, I had taken 10 ibuprofens to ease the pain.  That did not work and my boss had to call for an ambulance to take me to the hospital.  They did two CT scans that showed I had a 5mm colloid cyst in the third ventricle in my brain. A a week later, I saw a neurosurgeon.  Two days later, I was having brain surgery to remove the cyst.    A few minutes after they administered anesthesia, I was out of my body and looking at myself.

    I saw the doctors performing the surgery.  On my left side, I saw my father.  The first thing I asked him was, 'Am I dead?' He said, 'No. You are having surgery and will be with me that I would be with him for now while the surgery was going on.' I felt awesome and light.  We were laughing about something but I cannot remember what it was.  My dad grabbed my hand and said, 'Let's go check on your mom.' She was at the hospital in the waiting room while I was having surgery. We went through the wall and were instantly in front of her. She was checking the time on her phone/  I was screaming and tapping her shoulder while my dad was telling me that she couldn't hear or see us.  As he said that, she looked up at me like I was looking into her eyes.  Then my dad grabbed my hand and told me to come with him.  

  As we got close to the doors to exit the hospital, everything went white. It was as if we had stepped onto a cloud.  It was so beautiful and I felt an amazing, calm feeling.  

  During this time, my 7-year old niece saw me with my dad.  She thought I was dead.

  I remember coming back to my body in the ICU after the surgery.  My father hugged me and told me it was time for him to go.  He made me promise to take care of my mom and niece.  

  It felt like I was with my dad for like 15 minutes, yet surgery lasted 7-1/2 hours long.  When I first opened my eyes, I saw my mom hugging me.  I asked mom if dad was still with me.  Her face went white as a ghost. I'll never forget the look on her face. She never answered me. 

  My long-term memory has slipped since my surgery.  The doctor's warned me about this before surgery.  

  I did share my experience with my old friend. He said it was my soul crossing over. I will never forget being with my dad and having the last little time with him. I am forever grateful for that.  It took me a few days after I got home to tell my mom what I had experienced during the surgery. I have seen my father a few times since my experience in my dreams every now and then.   

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 September 2022  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Other: brain surgery brain surgery to remove a colloid cyst  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  It was when I was with my father during the surgery. I heard all the doctors talking and actually cutting my head open.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was like all my senses were heightened; my smell, touch, and my eyes.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       during the beginning of my brain surgery  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     When I was with my dad during the entire surgery, it felt like it was 15 minutes  but the surgery was 7-1/2 hours long  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     my vision was really clear, like I could see everything but in finer detail  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    my hearing was normal but when I was with my father during the surgery, it was like I could hear other people's thoughts  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   it was like I was walking into a cloud in the sky, when my dad had me go with him  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     it was a solid white cloud like it was so beautiful like I stepped into a white cloud a bright white cloud  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       peace calmness light as a feather  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I understood that I was with my dad who had passed away several months beforehand. I knew I was out of my body  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was with my dad who had passed away several months before my brain surgery  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.  When it was time for my dad to take me back, he told me it was time for him to go and that I needed to stay and take care of my mom and niece.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I am a Christian. I believe it was God allowing me to spend that last little bit of time with my dad while I was having the surgery done  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     when I was with my dad I knew it was God allowing me and my dad that one last little bit of time together  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I knew my dad was in a better place.  He was so happy and content.  He was no longer in pain - almost as if we were back driving over the road again which he used to do for several years as I was growing up  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     my dad before it was time for him to go wanted me to promise to take care of my mom and my little niece then he hugged me and said goodbye before he just disappeared  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I think it made me and my mom closer to each other than ever before like made our bond stronger  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        spending that time with my dad since he passed away several months beforehand but I wasn't able to properly say goodbye  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    it took me a few days after I had gotten out of the hospital to tell my mom.  After I told her, she cried. I told a friend of mine after I got out. He cried and so did his wife but he also said it was my soul getting ready to cross over but also God allowing me that last little bit of time with my father  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     it still feels surreal.  I still sit and think about it everyday  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     it was an amazing experience something I will never forget  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       at this time I can't think of anything  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I cannot think of anything at this time         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1arthur_m_possible_nde.html