{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1arthur_nde.html","mytitle":"Arthur NDE 1073","mylang":"de"}
          	        Arthur NDE 1073  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Arthur NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						473  Arthur NDE  1073  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When I had this experience, I knew nothing about NDEs totally ignorant. It was a few years before I learned about such things and read anything about them. I was extremely ill 106 fever for a week,


My experience was vivid, every dead loved one and good friend was there to greet me and guide me I saw angels a field full of them, the music my gracious can't begin to compare it to anything on earth, with all this even showing me future events if I stayed upstairs (in heaven).


I was told to marry a certain woman and that we were to have two children a boy then a girl we did and we have.  Thinking about this brings tears to my eyes joy chills goose bumps and a sense of reverence beyond explanation, I was given a choice, there was a long discussion, they showed me videos of what was going to happen at home if I stayed with them and just went to the approaching light.


I fought to come back and whooshed backwards through the tunnel from whence I had arrived and hit the bed with a thud it must have been audible as 3 nurses came running in and yelled thank God his fever is broken he is still with us Thank God!!!


SO it is important that I do something a little better with my life than what it was I had not been accomplishing before this life giving episode in my short and transitory visit in this dimension. Love was all around, the feelings cannot be articulated so that there can be a duplication of the feelings that this event fathered.


After my return, I doubted where I had been because there were two live people friends up there. Mike a client in London was there in a green cashmere sport coat holding a wooden handled putter, and a childhood friend, Betsy who was smiling and hugged me. The rest were dead some great grandparents that I had only seen a picture of and never met where there.


This all happened the first week in October 1988 and I was being treated for Legionnaires Disease. At thanksgiving, my mother told me, ‘I have some sad news your friend Betsy died last summer.  The first of the chills came down my am.


At Christmas time, I called Mike and was told he couldn't come to the phone because he was dead. I asked, ‘how, where, when?’ They replied, ‘Last July at the annual LLOYDS GOLF tournament, they had finished the game and had just gotten dressed up for dinner and he had a heart attack.’  I was speechless and validation of where I had been hit like a ton of bricks.


HOW DID MIKE AND BETSY COME AND MEET ME?  HOW DID THIS COMMUNICATION TRANSPIRE? HOW DID THEY KNOW I HAD CROSSED THE LINE IN A HOSPITAL IN MIAMI? How I have asked myself a hundred times.


Regards, Arthur 

Background Information:

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness  106 fever for 6 days

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1arthur_nde.html