{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1art_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Art L Probable NDE 4351","mylang":"de"}
          	        Art L Probable NDE 4351  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Art L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2154 Art L Probable NDE 4351  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was lying on a bed and sniffing Protrusuin and I stopped breathing. 

I left my body and was rising above my body. I then had a quick review of my life. I found myself in a very dark place approaching a bright light. As I got closer to this light, I felt at peace, I felt love and knowledge. As I got closer to this bright light, I noticed the silhouettes of people with their backs toward me. As I got closer these two silhouettes, they turned to face me. I knew that they were my great uncle and aunt. I drifted past them as I approached this source of light, which grew brighter. I also felt like I knew the universe. I had an understanding of everything. Someone approached me from this light. It was a holy light, source of all knowledge, love and so much more. A voice said, ' What have you done with the life I given you? Go back now and live your life. Marry and raise children.' As I started to retreat from this person (God, a Creator), I very quickly fell backwards down into my body, which hurt so bad.

All the feelings came back. I gasped for air, took a very deep breath, and opened my eyes. I was back in the bed. I remembered everything that happened to me. I thought about what had happened to me for days after it happened. Finely I went to talk to my Priest about what happened. I told him the whole story. He didn't know what to say, tried to explain what it could have been, but had no answer. As time went on, I realized at times I would experience small psychic events. I would visualize in my mind that something was going to happen and seconds later, it would happen. (Someone will walk in a room and say something, and it would happen seconds later.) This slowly faded after a few weeks. From my experience of the NDE my life has changed, I had a different outlook on things and people.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      Other 'At that age friends and wound get ''high'' on a cold room spray called Protusuin. We would spray Protusuin on a cloth, sniff it and get high. High was a feeling of having several beers.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As I approached this light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I approached this light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     More clarity, wide field of view.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     The light was a way to go in a very dark place.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The Creator (God).

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light of comfort and love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, understanding, forgiveness, and no fear of death.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     This was a life changing experience!

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Psychic experience, visualized a happening just before it would happen.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Life does exist after death. There is one Creator.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Life does exist after death. There is one Creator.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Universal order, an understanding of life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Better understanding of people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Psychic, which later faded.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Life after death. One creator or (God).

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I found it very hard to talk to others about what happened.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     To this day the event is vivid and clear. This event was a 'gift' to me for some reason.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It happened, not any type of dream.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1art_l_probable_nde.html