{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1arnaud_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Arnaud S NDE 4690","mylang":"de"}
          	        Arnaud S NDE 4690  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Arnaud S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2296 Arnaud S NDE 4690  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I started playing the 'choking game'. I was near a pond in the schoolyard, surrounded by my friends. I felt myself going and then I only remember seeing everything that was happening around the pond and myself. The notion of time did not exist. It was like I was floating above the scenery: my friends were speaking and laughing while two other friends were holding me. I felt a kind of warmth, intense wellbeing and felt as if I had total knowledge of everything. When I came back, I was told I was unconscious for about ten seconds and that two friends had caught me as I fell.

In my mind, it lasted much longer than ten seconds did, but I cannot put a time line on it. I remembered the 'dream' so vividly and it had moved me so deeply that two days later I decided to try the game again, alone, in my home. I understand it's a dangerous game that shouldn't be tried alone, but after having been through such a powerful experience, I wanted to do it again.

So the second time, I tried it sitting on my bed. I don't remember a thing, NOT a thing! I woke up crying, lying on the floor. My knees and head were hurting and my tongue was covered with blood. My eyes were open but I couldn't see and when my sight came back, I felt so bad.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  février 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Jeu du sommmeil indien.  Other 'Hypoxie due au jeu du ''sommeil indien'''  The 'choking game' aims to give you this type of experience by cutting off the flow of oxygen to the brain. I do believe I was unconscious. The risks are certainly important.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   When I could see what was happening from above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I could see what was happening from above.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     At first I was in the air and my body took up a lot of space. Time didn't seem to exist; I wouldn't know how long I stayed in that state.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I remember seeing what was happening from above and then 'zoomed' on my friends who were by the pond. I could see many angles at one time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I especially remember the visual aspect of the experience but I believe I could hear what was happening around me - the same way I would have heard it if I would have been there with my friends.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A wellbeing with an intense warmth. I was carefree yet in control of myself. Everything seemed simple and calm. Nothing negative.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Je ne me poser pas vraiment de question.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Aujourd'hui je réfléchis d'avantage à tout cela, en partie grâce à cette expérience.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I became aware of something really intense and powerful. In spite of my young age, I knew that what I experienced was powerful and it changed me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain The way I see things is more mature. I wonder about life and death a lot more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The perception wasn't the same as everyday life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was very significant to me, I remain deeply moved by it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I knew it wasn't a dream like any other one but I questioned it and to this day, I continue to question it. I hope you will be able to tell me if I did have a NDE or not.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I look back at the events and it confirms the reality of what I have felt during the experience. But I continue to doubt, I don't know if my imagination could have created that - I hope to get some answers from you.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This experience was caused by a game, using a precise technique - I wonder if what I've been through is real and I would really like to insist on the fact that games like these are dangerous and can fatal.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       This survey seems complete.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1arnaud_s_nde.html