{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1arlette_ky_nde.html","mytitle":"Arlette KY NDE 2858","mylang":"de"}
          	        Arlette KY NDE 2858  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Arlette KY NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						986  Arlette KY NDE  2858  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  What I now know was an aura passed, just unconsciousness, not aware that I was gone. Floating, no sound or smell, a feeling of utter peace, no forward, or backwards or side to side, in a light part of the light, no weight, no pain, no body awareness. Brought to as an external pacemaker being put in my leg, left again, jolted to be brought back, did not want to leave the peace and contentment, did not realize that that was death. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	November 21, 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         months of fainting preceded  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'sudden death epilepsy, but that was not known at the time'  Flat lined.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Light was brighter but could feel its softness, no labor to breathe or move, no distraction by your body.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All of it.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   No space, all space, definitely part of the space - no time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No depth perception, as I said, you were part of where you were.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sound.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Did not feel like I was passing through a tunnel or enclosure I may have been in the tunnel or enclosure, there was no way of telling, but I was in a light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Part of the light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     All I know that where ever I was ,I try very hard to be a good person,because I want to go back there when I do die.I felt that I was honored to have been able to see and be there  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace wonderment and joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     There are too many things that have happened to me since that I am sure there is a higher being and they are in my corner. Not religious, more so spiritual, denominations still fight between themselves as to who or what God is, and I don't want to be part of that. I also feel that I have been given a better understanding and somehow gotten a little closer to God, or maybe it's that I have let him closer to me.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   very spiritual  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There are too many things that have happened to me since that I am sure there is a higher being and they are in my corner. Not religious, more so spiritual, denominations still fight between themselves as to who or what God is, and I don't want to be part of that. I also feel that I have been given a better understanding and somehow gotten a little closer to God, or maybe it's that I have let him closer to me.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Not until afterward.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I do not hesitate to show love for my fellow man, and at times am taken advantage of because of it, but I know that what I am doing is true and from the heart and if their motives were not from that place, than it is they who are really hurt, hurting themselves and others. I have gained an incredible sense of patience, if you are going to be two minutes late, maybe there is a reason why, maybe if you got there two minutes earlier, as in driving, you may have caused or been part of an accident. I do have difficulty with having patience with people that take advantage of others though and that's still something I am working on. I am more forgiving of others and especially of myself. I am comfortable in my own skin more so then ever before.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because it was nothing that I had experienced before and hard to relate to others.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     There have been occurrences that have happened in my life since the event that cannot be explained or are too much to be coincidence.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I feel that I must be here for a reason, and that nothing happens by coincidence, everyone we meet, it is for a reason, we are taught by everyone. I feel more than I did before, other people's happiness or sorrow.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I could not help but share the experience; I was so excited by where I had been that it could not be kept inside. Some people look at me as though I have lost my mind, others say they understand, but have a look of disbelief or non-understanding, and I can understand, because I still have a difficult time understanding.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     And for a purpose, I feel honored, special and that I have been given a second chance. I feel more in touch with the world and myself.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I think I have already stated that I feel honored and special, and an abundance of love. At times, I feel that maybe I have become too soft for this world. The world can be an ugly and hard place.  At times when it gets bad, it can be hard to hold on to the wonderment of being allowed to be here, but then I wonder how difficult it must be for those that haven't had the experience of seeing what I have seen to hold on to love and goodness. People can be untruthful and selfish, and it can be hard to not turn into that kind of person, but I think the experience I had allows me to see the world kinder.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes, it is the best thing that has ever happened to me, The roses smell better, the sky is bluer the air is crisper, I have learned to appreciate life in a way that I don't think I ever could have if I did not have this experience.  What I have the most difficulty understanding is how differently this experience can affect different people, I have met someone that has also experienced near death, and he came back a very negative person, with horrid nightmares of demons chasing him, he has become a person with the mindset of 'I will get them before they get me.' I wish there was someone I could ask as to why this is so. But who do you ask?  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Cannot think of any.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1arlette_ky_nde.html