{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1arlene_h_nde_222.html","mytitle":"Arlene H NDE 222","mylang":"de"}
          	        Arlene H NDE 222  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Arlene H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1408 Arlene H NDE 222  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember being at the swimming pool and my mom going to get some food, well I took the chance to explore around. With the main pool there were other surrounding pools and I remember getting into the pool and wanting to go to the deep end and then all I remember is getting over my head and the more panicked I got the deeper I drifted to. I remember thinking that every time I went down I would kick from the bottom of the pool to get up for air and doing this several times, then all I remember is like I was falling asleep.

I remember the overwhelming feeling of calmness and very peaceful. The most I remember is how peaceful I felt. Then the next thing I knew I was looking down on people as if I was up in the air looking down. There were people crowded around someone on the ground. The lady was very pretty and she was giving someone mouth to mouth at the pool. It was like watching TV. Then I looked closer and realized that was ME. I started to feel scared but not attached to that person. I saw my mom crying and the lady said if she doesn't wake up we will have to give her this shot. Well that is all it took for me. All of a sudden, I was back in my body and saying please don't give me a shot.

I guess I was more concerned with the pain of a shot than what was really happening. I was too embarrassed to say anything to my mom and brushed it off as being a dream until about ten years ago when I read a book that talked about that -- then I realized I wasn't crazy and what I must have experienced was an out of body experience. I finally got up the courage to ask my mother about the drowning and she said that my heart had quit for several minutes and she told my mother she was sorry and then I just woke up. I told her what I experienced and she didn't believe me so I dropped the subject and never mentioned it to anyone, because I didn't want people to think I was crazy. I sometimes wonder if I were hypnotized if I would remember more than I do since I was so young? I remember some details very clearly, like what the lady looked like, she was pretty, black long hair and had on a black one piece bathing suit. Sometimes I felt as though I were crazy and was very careful not to mention this to my husband and children because I know they would think I have lost my marbles. Is there a chat room or anyone I can talk to about not feeling like I am ready for the looney bin? Thanks, at least I got it off my mind. Arlene.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer of 1964

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drowning   heart stopped beating  Drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was conscious of being above my body looking down wondering who was lying on the ground. I did not see what state I was in while I was above my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    At first no sound at all only peacefulness, then sounds of mother crying and the lady talking.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Not that I remember.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, calmness, very peaceful, curious, then fear of the lady giving me a shot.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     What kind of past would a five year old have anyway? I did learn that it doesn't hurt to die. When I drowned, it was like falling asleep for me. I do not fear death at all now or I never have through my entire life. My mother says I don't worry about anything. My life has been full of problems, but I am not bothered as most people would, I always know that things will work out and they always did.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I decided I had to wake up so she wouldn't give me a shot!  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Too young, only not afraid of dying.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   In the darkness the overwhelming feeling of peace and tranquility.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best part was the feeling of complete peacefulness and the worst, returning.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They thought I was crazy and I never mentioned it again.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Why did I not experience the other things? Was it too quick? Did I experience these things and I don't remember? I hope one day these things will be answered.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1arlene_h_nde_222.html