{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1arifur_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Arifur R NDE 3364","mylang":"de"}
          	        Arifur R NDE 3364  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  				    				  				  				  					  						  					  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  								Layouts  								  					  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				   				  				  					  						  							  						  								  									  										 Near Death Experience  									  									  										   									  									  										 skype.inthefuture  									  								  						    							  							  								  									  									                                                                              									  									  									  									  									    								  							  						  					  				  				  				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							  							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  			    			      			      			        			        Arifur R NDE  			          			          			          Home  			          Classification NDE  			          1312 Arifur R NDE 3364  		              		            		          			    			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					About four years ago, a childhood friend of mine, Kelvin, died. He and his parents were on their way to Santa Domingo, but they didn't make it, the plane had crashed and they were found dead. About three years later, my girlfriend Valerie died of excessive blood loss and severe brain injuries that took place in a car crash. I was in that car with her and her mom, and somehow I was the only one that survived. After those incidents and the death of my parents, I convinced myself to be alone, I gave up hope, and I was sad and depressed for about a year...

(A year later on February 21, my birthday).

I was in a car with Valerie's dad Jason. We were headed towards the cemetery where Valerie was resting. It was snowing and the road wasn't that clear to see. Jason and me were talking about how wonderful life would've been if death never existed, and in the process, I got to know how wonderful this man truly was.

*Tires Screeching*.

Jason loses control of the car and he yells to me screaming from the bottom of his lungs 'Don't worry you'll be fine, I'll be fine.'

The car flips over and Jason and I go flying out of our car from through the windshield. I was on the ground with snow surrounding me. I looked around me in search of Jason even though I couldn't see clearly because the blood was covering my face. I still lifted my head and saw him and yelled for him, 'Jason, Jason, Jason!!!' I heard no reply. As I looked towards him a second time more closely, I saw no body movements, no sign of breathing. I was about to burst into tears, but then I felt painful sting in my heart. My eyes were going blank. My fingers were going numb. I couldn't breathe. I couldn't feel. Everything went blank, just dark and empty space was seen. All of a sudden, I could feel myself, in a tunnel, it was dark, it had fire surrounding it in the inside. I was going through this tunnel and out from that tunnel I appeared in this universe. I was covered in a bright light, it felt warm, and peace surrounded me, I felt happy, and wanted. I went straight down in a narrow path and I realized a woman, she had dark blonde hair and looked at me, but I went right past her. I saw planet earth and right across from it was four earthly shaped worlds that were surrounded in an intense light. That pierced my soul and bought me joy.

In front of my eyes appeared all the prophets of religious teachings - Christianity, Islam, Judaism, etc. In the middle was a bright human shaped light. It spoke to me saying that it was God, I didn't believe it at first (who would), I asked 'it' 'Who Are you?' And 'it' replied back to me saying 'I am just like you, lonely, not wanted, sad. I have set forth countless members of humans on this planet, I've created these planets out of my own ability, I have created prophets to explain my existence, but yet these humans that I have set forth deny my existence. They believe in others that have no existence.' I asked 'it' 'Why haven't you given them any chances?' With a reply so calm, 'it' said to me 'Arifur have you not felt alone and not wanted? Have you not given up because you understand that people won't believe your existence, thus I am sure that when you return, and when you speak of this moment, whoever you speak with will not believe it. Let them believe what they want, for all I ask is just for them to accept the fact that another God exists. And just from that belief I will be happy.'

'Why me?' I said.

'It' said to me with a sad reply, 'You're the only one that I have found strong enough to deal with this pain. You share the same feelings that I have felt, the feeling of loneliness, the feeling of being not noticed, that's why I have chosen you. From here on out you will never forget this moment, and others will never realize the true meaning to life, only you will understand life and only you can hold my existence.'

'What proof do I have of your existence, I'm unconscious. Maybe this is all an illusion?' I asked 'it'.

'Maybe, just maybe I don't exist and maybe this is an illusion, but what proof will you have of that. You are not unconscious, you are dead. But you have a second chance, I'll let you live. But before that I want to say that I am truly sorry for the pain I have caused, Valerie, Kelvin, your parents, Val's and Kelvin's parents. They're all safe. They're in Heaven with me.'

I was crying really hard.

And then the 'it' to me was truly known as God, I was convinced enough.

God asked me 'Why cry?'

In reply, I said 'I'm happy that they are doing well. Thank You'.

And then all of a sudden GOD said something that until this day has me thinking.

'Do you want to see Valerie and Kelvin?'

I didn't reply.

And so he said, 'Although you don't want to speak, I can feel your heart telling me that you want to see them really bad. Believe in me, believe in my existence.'

(All of a sudden, this tunnel was sucking me in.  In an instant, I was in a plane. I was sitting in a middle seat, and to my left was Kelvin and to my right was Valerie, They had grown up. Kelvin smiled to me and Valerie grabbed my Hand.

Kelvin looked to me and said 'It's okay, You're gonna be fine. This is real Arifur, I am real. Don't give up, You're gonna be stronger then anyone on this planet. Believe in God, His existence is real.'

*BOOM*.

The plane shifted to an angle and started going downwards, Valerie grabbed my hand and said to me, 'Don't be afraid, You're safe, You're free, believe. There's someone out there and that girl shares the same pain that you share, so don't cling on to me, move on, live and breathe and you'll eventually meet her. I... you Arifur.'

As the plane started going downwards I closed my eyes, and everything blackened. I still had my feeling of existence. I opened my eyes and there I was, in the hospital. I moved a little and everyone (doctors, etc.) looked at me shocked, as if they had just seen a ghost. Everything to me just seemed like a bad dream, but in reality, it was real. I had just experienced the truly meaning to my life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 21, 2005'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other I was known to be dead for 7 minutes  I was dead, and I knew it but I wasn't sure about what would happen to me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right from the start of the experience I had capability to know what was going on.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I remember being in a plane, and when that plane went down, I was going down with it. I was grabbing onto my girlfriend who passed away, and it felt so real. I grabbed onto a seat, and it felt like it was actually real.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear things from a far distance; I would hear voices calling to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through a dark tunnel, and then I was covered with this bright light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were inside this airplane that Kelvin my childhood friend who passed away from taking it to Santa Domingo. (I don't want to say which.) And yes I knew them, Kelvin and Valerie (my girlfriend who passed) they were inside that plane. As Valerie grabbed my hand, Kelvin said 'It's okay, everything will be fine, believe in God, He's doing this to test your strength. He's doing this not to hurt you but to see how strong you are.' And Valerie let go of my hand and said 'I thank you. You'll meet her, You'll meet a girl who will love you and who will share your story, so move on, live for that moment, live for that future.'

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was the size of earth and there were four of these bright earth shaped worlds.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was out of earth and i saw a comparison between earth and the four bright eartly shaped worlds...

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I saw the doctors examining my dead body, and I could feel them using tools to configure my death, but it wasn't very painful, I only felt pinches while I was in the other dimension.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was a review that I was in. I was in the same plane that Kelvin crashed in real life. From that experience I learned that God cares and that I have to move on from the past and I have to create my destiny.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     It was exactly as I was told, I met this girl that understood and shared the same pain I had, she looked exactly like the girl I had in my vision.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Didn't have that much Faith, Because of what I've been going through in life...'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'I Have changed over the years, and my nde story will explain that.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I saw Jesus Christ, and then I saw a Bright Human shaped light, and next to him were a lot of prophets that I was aware of.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes People would see me as to be weird and different, when reality is that it is indeed true.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        See question #18.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   God himself, and the souls that have spoken told me clearly that I had a choice to return or stay, I said yes.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw it to be true, because the things that I've been told that would happen, had happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still believe that the experience was real - see question #41.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I've seen God speak and heard him say to me how lonely he is, how, people deny his existence and believe in other gods. I have witnessed a different God that this world has not heard about. But out of the billions of people, he chose to speak with me. He said to me through his speech 'I can share your pain.' And it was then that I realized God is what we make of him.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1arifur_r_nde.html