{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1arda_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Arda F Probable NDE 3249","mylang":"de"}
          	        Arda F Probable NDE 3249  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Arda F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1180  Arda F Probable NDE  3249  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had a outpatient surgery so checked in at 7:00 am and was supposed to be out by 10:00 am. My sister took me to the clinic.

Since I was on a Phen-Fen diet prior to my surgery, the doctor could not stop the bleeding as such and I had to go under two other surgeries so they could stop the bleeding. According to my doctor, I had lost about two liters of blood and they could not revive me.

All I remember is (I've learned later from my family to be around midnight) I lifted away from physical body and floated to the room (like astronauts), I saw my body on the bed covered in a white blanket. I saw my sister in the room crying; my ex-husband sitting at the bottom in a corner with his hands on the face; my cousin wearing a green jacket standing near the door; about two doctors standing in a corner talking to each other.

I went through the wall and entered the hallway where I noticed my brother-in-law (my sister's husband) walking back and forth in the hallway talking to someone on his cell phone. I then floated into a tunnel with all pastel color lights (light pink, peach, and yellow). I knew it was a tunnel as when you looked around, it was round (same as when your drive through a tunnel) and going through the source of the light at the end of the tunnel. There were no one in the tunnel, it was quiet and peaceful but was very, very cold and I started shaking. All I could remember was 'GOD' so I started talking to him telling him 'God, I am so cold, I am so cold, please help.'

Then a religious symbol in Islam (Aboulfazr's hand) showed up in the tunnel, it was as big as Empire State building, huge but WARM. I felt the warmth so started going toward the hand to grab it and I did. The minute I touched the hand, I was warmed.  I thanked both God and Aboulfazr for helping me. The next thing I know I woke up in the bed at the same room where I left my body. I turned to my left and called a nurse (whom I'd never met or seen in my life) by her first name Kathy who was rubbing my hand.

I immediately thanked her for saving my life and told her how I was dead and she brought me back to life. I then asked for my cousin (who is a descendent of Prophet Mohammad) and held his hand which gave me a very special warmth and energy.

I then asked to have my brother-in-law to come in and order flowers for Kathy who saved me. I then asked why is my ex-husband asked to come and why one of my friends (NG) was not there. I also said a joke, giggled and collapsed again, where the doctor's took me immediately to an emergency room in a hospital.

I was at the hospital for about two weeks and in bed for another month at home to build all the lost blood to be able to even walk again. I know what I experience, None of my families were with me when I went in and were only called to come when there were no hope. I believe the reason for me coming back to life was to take care of my three girls who were about three, four and six at the time. It was very beautiful. I am not scared of dying and I know there is another life after here, only when it is the time to go. I did cross over and came back and it is a beautiful experience.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1995

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  I don't understand your question.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was very alert during the entire out of body experience and still remember it very well.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time didn't exist. It felt like a journey without control. Like you are on a train and someone else was driving it. It was just very cold.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Interesting you asked this as I don't recall hearing anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I passed through a tunnel with all light pastel colors such as pastel pink, peach, and yellow and when I looked up the top was 'curved' so I knew it was a tunnel and I was floating towards the source of the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Beautiful pastel pink, peach, yellow colors.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Not sure of the question..It was just lights in a tunnel, no other specific...

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Very calm and normal.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     It made it more strong even though I don't practice much. I am very close to God and talk to him constantly.

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     It made it more strong even though I don't practice much. I am very close to God and talk to him constantly.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   There are superior powers, God (mystic), religious, whatever you called it/them but is very spiritual. While up there, I was only talking to God.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  We live for the next life. This is a temporary life and how we live in the next life is the result of what kind of human we are in this life.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     1. It seems I can sense some of the negative things that could happen such as car accidents but not always.  Only sometimes.

2. Stigmata on my both palms; just a couple of weeks ago on Sunday in July of 07, I went with my daughter to a Catholic Church where three kids were being baptized. The next morning Monday, I got a wound on my left palm and on the same day's evening got another wound on my right palm. They look like two brown spots and I still have them on my palms. I've called the church and they would like to see me so am going there tomorrow to meet with the priest.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       When the religious symbol (the hand) appeared with such a warmth where I could hold so won't float away which helped me get back to life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Immediately as soon as I woke up in bed. They all thought I was hallucinating. Ever since, I've almost told everyone that I have met.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Uncertain   No, not really.

About four or five years later, I saw a program on Discovery Channel where other people had similar experienced as mine. So I was happy to know I was not the only one.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It was as real as am writing this. This was not my imagination. I know what I felt. I had no way of knowing who was outside the room or inside the room. I was put to general anesthesia from 7:00 am until 8:00 pm and had no idea. What I saw was exactly what was in the room and outside of the room.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1arda_f_probable_nde.html