{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1archie_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Archie M NDE 3455","mylang":"de"}
          	        Archie M NDE 3455  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Archie M NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1478 Archie M NDE 3455  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I saw the Light. I travelled towards it automatically, and found myself in a beautiful field of golden grasses. I noticed about five or six people looking at me and waiting for me, and realized later that these were in fact deceased relatives from Scotland. I was shown a magnificent gold colored city where universities of learning were operating. I felt a powerful being, God like, at my immediate side. It felt like I spent an hour or so there but was only gone, dead, for eight minutes on Earth. I was told to go back, do important work, and use my previously wasted life to do good for others. I felt a hard return to my body. Recovery was slow at first, but I became well after two months and then set about doing amazing things with my life. I have made it my life's work to inform all others I meet about my NDE and do only good deeds for all. I have advised everyone that I am not to be resuscitated next time, as I really want to return to that place.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  23/08/1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Car accident. I died in the ambulance on the way to hospital and was clinically dead for eight minutes before resuscitation.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While clinically dead.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I spent what seemed like a full hour there, but was only gone for eight minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were brighter and more majestic.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was vaguely familiar with some of the faces as being old family members who had died, but not with others although I clearly recognized them when I later went through old photographs.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright white light radiating from above.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A Vast and Magical City, surrounded by fields of golden foliage. a place of learning.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy and Bewilderment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Life summed up in a short flash.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Catholic, Non Active'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I believe more in God, but I'm not much more religious. Non-denominational.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I believe more in God, but I'm not much more religious. Non-denominational.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I returned with a sense of purpose and understanding that life was to be lived.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I remarried, had another child, moved interstate and have done heaps of amazing things with my life without fear of dying or loss.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That we will all live again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Almost immediately to a few people, but regularly now.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I was not really into this sort of thing pre-experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was drastically life altering. I have never felt the same about my life or other people's lives since.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am certain of what took place.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I don't take anything.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       After returning I made huge life changes and achieved amazing results, e.g. only eighteen months after learning to play guitar I toured with a famous Aussie band performing overseas, including the US. I had never played before that time. Also, I started a charity to raise money for homeless teens in Melbourne - I ran over 3000 km and raised two million dollars, meeting the Prime Minister and State Premiers along the way. I took up football and played for South Melbourne, now Sydney Swans. These are just a few of my achievements after my NDE/OBE.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You could ask how long, if applicable, the person was dead before resuscitation. I was dead for eight minutes when unloaded from the ambulance, and the doctor at Emergency misheard the paramedic as to how long I had been clinically dead, so the Doctors brought me back. At the time, I was the longest dead person brought back to life in Australian medical history. If the doctors had known I was already gone eight minutes they would not have even tried.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1archie_m_nde.html